Nabrit , my fellow Americans I am delighted at the chance to speak at this important and this historic institution . Howard has long been an outstanding center for the education of Negro Americans . Its students are of every race and color and they come from many countries of the world . It is truly a working example of democratic excellence . Our earth is the home of revolution . In every corner of every continent men charged with hope contend with ancient ways in the pursuit of justice . They reach for the newest of weapons to realize the oldest of dreams , that each may walk in freedom and pride , stretching his talents , enjoying the fruits of the earth . Our enemies may occasionally seize the day of change , but it is the banner of our revolution they take . And our own future is linked to this process of swift and turbulent change in many lands in the world . But nothing in any country touches us more profoundly , and nothing is more freighted with meaning for our own destiny than the revolution of the Negro American . In far too many ways American Negroes have been another nation deprived of freedom , crippled by hatred , the doors of opportunity closed to hope . In our time change has come to this Nation , too . The American Negro , acting with impressive restraint , has peacefully protested and marched , entered the courtrooms and the seats of government , demanding a justice that has long been denied . The voice of the Negro was the call to action . But it is a tribute to America that , once aroused , the courts and the Congress , the President and most of the people , have been the allies of progress . Thus we have seen the high court of the country declare that discrimination based on race was repugnant to the Constitution , and therefore void . We have seen in 1957 , and 1960 , and again in 1964 , the first civil rights legislation in this Nation in almost an entire century . As majority leader of the United States Senate , I helped to guide two of these bills through the Senate . And , as your President , I was proud to sign the third . And now very soon we will have the fourth a new law guaranteeing every American the right to vote . No act of my entire administration will give me greater satisfaction than the day when my signature makes this bill , too , the law of this land . The voting rights bill will be the latest , and among the most important , in a long series of victories . But this victory as Winston Churchill said of another triumph for freedom is not the end . It is not even the beginning of the end . But it is , perhaps , the end of the beginning . That beginning is freedom and the barriers to that freedom are tumbling down . Freedom is the right to share , share fully and equally , in American society to vote , to hold a job , to enter a public place , to go to school . It is the right to be treated in every part of our national life as a person equal in dignity and promise to all others . But freedom is not enough . You do not wipe away the scars of centuries by saying Now you are free to go where you want , and do as you desire , and choose the leaders you please . You do not take a person who , for years , has been hobbled by chains and liberate him , bring him up to the starting line of a race and then say , you are free to compete with all the others , and still justly believe that you have been completely fair . Thus it is not enough just to open the gates of opportunity . All our citizens must have the ability to walk through those gates . This is the next and the more profound stage of the battle for civil rights . We seek not just freedom but opportunity . We seek not just legal equity but human ability , not just equality as a right and a theory but equality as a fact and equality as a result . For the task is to give 20 million Negroes the same chance as every other American to learn and grow , to work and share in society , to develop their abilities physical , mental and spiritual , and to pursue their individual happiness . To this end equal opportunity is essential , but not enough , not enough . Men and women of all races are born with the same range of abilities . But ability is not just the product of birth . Ability is stretched or stunted by the family that you live with , and the neighborhood you live in by the school you go to and the poverty or the richness of your surroundings . It is the product of a hundred unseen forces playing upon the little infant , the child , and finally the man . This graduating class at Howard University is witness to the indomitable determination of the Negro American to win his way in American life . The number of Negroes in schools of higher learning has almost doubled in 15 years . The number of nonwhite professional workers has more than doubled in 10 years . The median income of Negro college women tonight exceeds that of white college women . And there are also the enormous accomplishments of distinguished individual Negroes many of them graduates of this institution , and one of them the first lady ambassador in the history of the United States . These are proud and impressive achievements . But they tell only the story of a growing middle class minority , steadily narrowing the gap between them and their white counterparts . But for the great majority of Negro Americans the poor , the unemployed , the uprooted , and the dispossessed there is a much grimmer story . They still , as we meet here tonight , are another nation . Despite the court orders and the laws , despite the legislative victories and the speeches , for them the walls are rising and the gulf is widening . Here are some of the facts of this American failure . Thirty five years ago the rate of unemployment for Negroes and whites was about the same . Tonight the Negro rate is twice as high . In 1948 the 8 percent unemployment rate for Negro teenage boys was actually less than that of whites . By last year that rate had grown to 23 percent , as against 13 percent for whites unemployed . Between 1949 and 1959 , the income of Negro men relative to white men declined in every section of this country . From 1952 to 1963 the median income of Negro families compared to white actually dropped from 57 percent to 53 percent . In the years 1955 through 1957 , 22 percent of experienced Negro workers were out of work at some time during the year . In 1961 through 1963 that proportion had soared to 29 percent . Since 1947 the number of white families living in poverty has decreased 27 percent while the number of poorer nonwhite families decreased only 3 percent . The infant mortality of nonwhites in 1940 was 70 percent greater than whites . Twenty two years later it was 90 percent greater . Moreover , the isolation of Negro from white communities is increasing , rather than decreasing as Negroes crowd into the central cities and become a city within a city . Of course Negro Americans as well as white Americans have shared in our rising national abundance . But the harsh fact of the matter is that in the battle for true equality too many far too many are losing ground every day . We are not completely sure why this is . We know the causes are complex and subtle . But we do know the two broad basic reasons . And we do know that we have to act . First , Negroes are trapped as many whites are trapped in inherited , gate less poverty . They lack training and skills . They are shut in , in slums , without decent medical care . Private and public poverty combine to cripple their capacities . We are trying to attack these evils through our poverty program , through our education program , through our medical care and our other health programs , and a dozen more of the Great Society programs that are aimed at the root causes of this poverty . We will increase , and we will accelerate , and we will broaden this attack in years to come until this most enduring of foes finally yields to our unyielding will . But there is a second cause much more difficult to explain , more deeply grounded , more desperate in its force . It is the devastating heritage of long years of slavery and a century of oppression , hatred , and injustice . For Negro poverty is not white poverty . Many of its causes and many of its cures are the same . But there are differences deep , corrosive , obstinate differences radiating painful roots into the community , and into the family , and the nature of the individual . These differences are not racial differences . They are solely and simply the consequence of ancient brutality , past injustice , and present prejudice . They are anguishing to observe . For the Negro they are a constant reminder of oppression . For the white they are a constant reminder of guilt . But they must be faced and they must be dealt with and they must be overcome , if we are ever to reach the time when the only difference between Negroes and whites is the color of their skin . Nor can we find a complete answer in the experience of other American minorities . They made a valiant and a largely successful effort to emerge from poverty and prejudice . The Negro , like these others , will have to rely mostly upon his own efforts . But he just can not do it alone . For they did not have the heritage of centuries to overcome , and they did not have a cultural tradition which had been twisted and battered by endless years of hatred and hopelessness , nor were they excluded these others because of race or color a feeling whose dark intensity is matched by no other prejudice in our society . Nor can these differences be understood as isolated infirmities . They are a seamless web . They cause each other . They result from each other . They reinforce each other . Much of the Negro community is buried under a blanket of history and circumstance . It is not a lasting solution to lift just one corner of that blanket . We must stand on all sides and we must raise the entire cover if we are to liberate our fellow citizens . One of the differences is the increased concentration of Negroes in our cities . More than 73 percent of all Negroes live in urban areas compared with less than 70 percent of the whites . Most of these Negroes live in slums . Most of these Negroes live together a separated people . Men are shaped by their world . When it is a world of decay , ringed by an invisible wall , when escape is arduous and uncertain , and the saving pressures of a more hopeful society are unknown , it can cripple the youth and it can desolate the men . There is also the burden that a dark skin can add to the search for a productive place in our society . Unemployment strikes most swiftly and broadly at the Negro , and this burden erodes hope . Blighted hope breeds despair . Despair brings indifferences to the learning which offers a way out . And despair , coupled with indifferences , is often the source of destructive rebellion against the fabric of society . There is also the lacerating hurt of early collision with white hatred or prejudice , distaste or condescension . Other groups have felt similar intolerance . But success and achievement could wipe it away . They do not change the color of a man s skin . I have seen this uncomprehending pain in the eyes of the little , young Mexican American schoolchildren that I taught many years ago . But it can be overcome . But , for many , the wounds are always open . Perhaps most important its influence radiating to every part of life is the breakdown of the Negro family structure . For this , most of all , white America must accept responsibility . It flows from centuries of oppression and persecution of the Negro man . It flows from the long years of degradation and discrimination , which have attacked his dignity and assaulted his ability to produce for his family . This , too , is not pleasant to look upon . But it must be faced by those whose serious intent is to improve the life of all Americans . Only a minority less than half of all Negro children reach the age of 18 having lived all their lives with both of their parents . At this moment , tonight , little less than two thirds are at home with both of their parents . Probably a majority of all Negro children receive federally aided public assistance sometime during their childhood . The family is the cornerstone of our society . More than any other force it shapes the attitude , the hopes , the ambitions , and the values of the child . And when the family collapses it is the children that are usually damaged . When it happens on a massive scale the community itself is crippled . So , unless we work to strengthen the family , to create conditions under which most parents will stay together all the rest schools , and playgrounds , and public assistance , and private concern , will never be enough to cut completely the circle of despair and deprivation . There is no single easy answer to all of these problems . Jobs are part of the answer . They bring the income which permits a man to provide for his family . Decent homes in decent surroundings and a chance to learn an equal chance to learn are part of the answer . Welfare and social programs better designed to hold families together are part of the answer . Care for the sick is part of the answer . An understanding heart by all Americans is another big part of the answer . And to all of these fronts and a dozen more I will dedicate the expanding efforts of the Johnson administration . But there are other answers that are still to be found . Nor do we fully understand even all of the problems . Therefore , I want to announce tonight that this fall I intend to call a White House conference of scholars , and experts , and outstanding Negro leaders men of both races and officials of Government at every level . This White House conference s theme and title will be To Fulfill These Rights . Its object will be to help the American Negro fulfill the rights which , after the long time of injustice , he is finally about to secure . To move beyond opportunity to achievement . To shatter forever not only the barriers of law and public practice , but the walls which bound the condition of many by the color of his skin . To dissolve , as best we can , the antique enmities of the heart which diminish the holder , divide the great democracy , and do wrong great wrong to the children of God . And I pledge you tonight that this will be a chief goal of my administration , and of my program next year , and in the years to come . And I hope , and I pray , and I believe , it will be a part of the program of all America . For what is justice It is to fulfill the fair expectations of man . Thus , American justice is a very special thing . For , from the first , this has been a land of towering expectations . It was to be a nation where each man could be ruled by the common consent of all enshrined in law , given life by institutions , guided by men themselves subject to its rule . And all all of every station and origin would be touched equally in obligation and in liberty . Beyond the law lay the land . It was a rich land , glowing with more abundant promise than man had ever seen . Here , unlike any place yet known , all were to share the harvest . And beyond this was the dignity of man . Each could become whatever his qualities of mind and spirit would permit to strive , to seek , and , if he could , to find his happiness . This is American justice . We have pursued it faithfully to the edge of our imperfections , and we have failed to find it for the American Negro . So , it is the glorious opportunity of this generation to end the one huge wrong of the American Nation and , in so doing , to find America for ourselves , with the same immense thrill of discovery which gripped those who first began to realize that here , at last , was a home for freedom . All it will take is for all of us to understand what this country is and what this country must become . The Scripture promises I shall light a candle of understanding in thine heart , which shall not be put out . Together , and with millions more , we can light that candle of understanding in the heart of all America . And , once lit , it will never again go out .<speech_sep>Speaker , President , Members of the Congress , and my fellow Americans I was thinking as I was walking down the aisle tonight of what Sam Rayburn told me many years ago The Congress always extends a very warm welcome to the President as he comes in . Thank all of you very , very much . I have come once again to this Chamber the home of our democracy to give you , as the Constitution requires , Information of the State of the Union . I report to you that our country is challenged , at home and abroad that it is our will that is being tried , not our strength our sense of purpose , not our ability to achieve a better America that we have the strength to meet our every challenge the physical strength to hold the course of decency and compassion at home and the moral strength to support the cause of peace in the world . And I report to you that I believe , with abiding conviction , that this people nurtured by their deep faith , tutored by their hard lessons , moved by their high aspirations have the will to meet the trials that these times impose . Since I reported to you last January Three elections have been held in Vietnam in the midst of war and under the constant threat of violence . A President , a Vice President , a House and Senate , and village officials have been chosen by popular , contested ballot . The enemy has been defeated in battle after battle . The number of South Vietnamese living in areas under Government protection tonight has grown by more than a million since January of last year . These are all marks of progress . Yet The enemy continues to pour men and material across frontiers and into battle , despite his continuous heavy losses . He continues to hope that America s will to persevere can be broken . Well he is wrong . America will persevere . Our patience and our perseverance will match our power . Aggression will never prevail . But our goal is peace and peace at the earliest possible moment . Right now we are exploring the meaning of Hanoi s recent statement . There is no mystery about the questions which must be answered before the bombing is stopped . We believe that any talks should follow the San Antonio formula that I stated last September , which said The bombing would stop immediately if talks would take place promptly and with reasonable hopes that they would be productive . And the other side must not take advantage of our restraint as they have in the past . This Nation simply cannot accept anything less without jeopardizing the lives of our men and of our allies . If a basis for peace talks can be established on the San Antonio foundations and it is my hope and my prayer that they can we would consult with our allies and with the other side to see if a complete cessation of hostilities a really true cease fire could be made the first order of business . I will report at the earliest possible moment the results of these explorations to the American people . I have just recently returned from a very fruitful visit and talks with His Holiness the Pope and I share his hope as he expressed it earlier today that both sides will extend themselves in an effort to bring an end to the war in Vietnam . I have today assured him that we and our allies will do our full part to bring this about . Since I spoke to you last January , other events have occurred that have major consequences for world peace . The Kennedy Round achieved the greatest reduction in tariff barriers in all the history of trade negotiations . The nations of Latin America at Punta del Este resolved to move toward economic integration . In Asia , the nations from Korea and Japan to Indonesia and Singapore worked behind America s shield to strengthen their economies and to broaden their political cooperation . In Africa , from which the distinguished Vice President has just returned , he reports to me that there is a spirit of regional cooperation that is beginning to take hold in very practical ways . These events we all welcomed . Yet since I last reported to you , we and the world have been confronted by a number of crises During the Arab Israeli war last June , the hot line between Washington and Moscow was used for the first time in our history . A cease fire was achieved without a major power confrontation . Now the nations of the Middle East have the opportunity to cooperate with Ambassador Jarring s mission and they have the responsibility to find the terms of living together in stable peace and dignity , and we shall do all in our power to help them achieve that result . Not far from this scene of conflict , a crisis flared on Cyprus involving two peoples who are America s friends Greece and Turkey . Our very able representative , Cyrus Vance , and others helped to ease this tension . Turmoil continues on the mainland of China after a year of violent disruption . The radical extremism of their Government has isolated the Chinese people behind their own borders . The United States , however , remains willing to permit the travel of journalists to both our countries to undertake cultural and educational exchanges and to talk about the exchange of basic food crop materials . Since I spoke to you last , the United States and the Soviet Union have taken several important steps toward the goal of international cooperation . As you will remember , I met with Chairman Kosygin at Glassboro and we achieved if not accord , at least a clearer understanding of our respective positions after 2 days of meeting . Because we believe the nuclear danger must be narrowed , we have worked with the Soviet Union and with other nations to reach an agreement that will halt the spread of nuclear weapons . On the basis of communications from Ambassador Fisher in Geneva this afternoon , I am encouraged to believe that a draft treaty can be laid before the conference in Geneva in the very near future . I hope to be able to present that treaty to the Senate this year for the Senate s approval . We achieved , in 1967 , a consular treaty with the Soviets , the first commercial air agreement between the two countries , and a treaty banning weapons in outer space . We shall sign , and submit to the Senate shortly , a new treaty with the Soviets and with others for the protection of astronauts . Serious differences still remain between us , yet in these relations , we have made some progress since Vienna , the Berlin Wall , and the Cuban missile crisis . But despite this progress , we must maintain a military force that is capable of deterring any threat to this Nation s security , whatever the mode of aggression . Our choices must not be confined to total war or to total acquiescence . We have such a military force today . We shall maintain it . I wish with all of my heart that the expenditures that are necessary to build and to protect our power could all be devoted to the programs of peace . But until world conditions permit , and until peace is assured , America s might and America s bravest sons who wear our Nation s uniform must continue to stand guard for all of us as they gallantly do tonight in Vietnam and other places in the world . Yet neither great weapons nor individual courage can provide the conditions of peace . For two decades America has committed itself against the tyranny of want and ignorance in the world that threatens the peace . We shall sustain that commitment . This year I shall propose That we launch , with other nations , an exploration of the ocean depths to tap its wealth , and its energy , and its abundance . That we contribute our fair share to a major expansion of the International Development Association , and to increase the resources of the Asian Development Bank . That we adopt a prudent aid program , rooted in the principle of self help . That we renew and extend the food for freedom program . Our food programs have already helped millions avoid the horrors of famine . But unless the rapid growth of population in developing countries is slowed , the gap between rich and poor will widen steadily . Governments in the developing countries must take such facts into consideration . We in the United States are prepared to help assist them in those efforts . But we must also improve the lives of children already born in the villages and towns and cities on this earth . They can be taught by great teachers through space communications and the miracle of satellite television and we are going to bring to bear every resource of mind and technology to help make this dream come true . Let me speak now about some matters here at home . Tonight our Nation is accomplishing more for its people than has ever been accomplished before . Americans are prosperous as men have never been in recorded history . Yet there is in the land a certain restlessness a questioning . The total of our Nation s annual production is now above 800 billion . For 83 months this Nation has been on a steady upward trend of growth . All about them , most American families can see the evidence of growing abundance higher paychecks , humming factories , new cars moving down new highways . More and more families own their own homes , equipped with more than 70 million television sets . A new college is founded every week . Today more than half of the high school graduates go on to college . There are hundreds of thousands of fathers and mothers who never completed grammar school who will see their children graduate from college . Why , then , this restlessness Because when a great ship cuts through the sea , the waters are always stirred and troubled . And our ship is moving . It is moving through troubled and new waters it is moving toward new and better shores . We ask now , not how can we achieve abundance but how shall we use our abundance Not , is there abundance enough for all but , how can all share in our abundance While we have accomplished much , much remains for us to meet and much remains for us to master . In some areas , the jobless rate is still three or four times the national average . Violence has shown its face in some of our cities . Crime increases on our streets . Income for farm workers remains far behind that for urban workers and parity for our farmers who produce our food is still just a hope not an achievement . New housing construction is far less than we need to assure decent shelter for every family . Hospital and medical costs are high , and they are rising . Many rivers and the air in many cities remain badly polluted . And our citizens suffer from breathing that air . We have lived with conditions like these for many , many years . But much that we once accepted as inevitable , we now find absolutely intolerable . In our cities last summer , we saw how wide is the gulf for some Americans between the promise and the reality of our society . We know that we cannot change all of this in a day . It represents the bitter consequences of more than three centuries . But the issue is not whether we can change this the issue is whether we will change this . Well , I know we can . And I believe we will . This then is the work we should do in the months that are ahead of us in this Congress . The first essential is more jobs , useful jobs for tens of thousands who can become productive and can pay their own way . Our economy has created 7 1 2 million new jobs in the past 4 years . It is adding more than a million and a half new jobs this year . Through programs passed by the Congress , job training is being given tonight to more than a million Americans in this country . This year , the time has come when we must get to those who are last in line the hard core unemployed the hardest to reach . Employment officials estimate that 500 , 000 of these persons are now unemployed in the major cities of America . Our objective is to place these 500 , 000 in private industry jobs within the next 3 years . To do this , I propose a 2 . 1 billion manpower program in the coming fiscal year a 25 percent increase over the current year . Most of this increase will be used to start a new partnership between government and private industry to train and to hire the hard core unemployed persons . I know of no task before us of more importance to us , to the country , or to our future . Another essential is to rebuild our cities . Last year the Congress authorized 662 million for the Model Cities program . I requested the full amount of that authorization to help meet the crisis in the cities of America . But the Congress appropriated only 312 million less than half . This year I urge the Congress to honor my request for model cities funds to rebuild the centers of American cities by granting us the full amount that you in the Congress authorized 1 billion . The next essential is more housing and more housing now . Surely a nation that can go to the moon can place a decent home within the reach of its families . Therefore we must call together the resources of industry and labor , to start building 300 , 000 housing units for low and middle income families next year that is three times more than this year . We must make it possible for thousands of families to become homeowners , not rent payers . I propose , for the consideration of this Congress , a 10 year campaign to build 6 million new housing units for low and middle income families . Six million units in the next 10 years . We have built 530 , 000 the last 10 years . Better health for our children all of our children is essential if we are to have a better America . Last year , Medicare , Medicaid , and other new programs that you passed in the Congress brought better health to more than 25 million Americans . American medicine with the very strong support and cooperation of public resources has produced a phenomenal decline in the death rate from many of the dread diseases . But it is a shocking fact that , in saving the lives of babies , America ranks 15th among the nations of the world . And among children , crippling defects are often discovered too late for any corrective action . This is a tragedy that Americans can , and Americans should , prevent . I shall , therefore , propose to the Congress a child health program to provide , over the next 5 years , for families unable to afford it access to health services from prenatal care of the mother through the child s first year . When we do that you will find it is the best investment we ever made because we will get these diseases in their infancy and we will find a cure in a great many instances that we can never find by overcrowding our hospitals when they are grown . Now when we act to advance the consumer s cause I think we help every American . Last year , with very little fanfare the Congress and the executive branch moved in that field . We enacted the Wholesome Meat Act , the Flammable Fabrics Act , the Product Safety Commission , and a law to improve clinical laboratories . And now , I think , the time has come to complete our unfinished work . The Senate has already passed the truth in lending bill , the fire safety bill , and the pipeline safety laws . Tonight I plead with the House to immediately act upon these measures and I hope take favorable action upon all of them . I call upon the Congress to enact , without delay , the remainder of the 12 vital consumer protection laws that I submitted to the Congress last year . I also urge final action on a measure that is already passed by the House to guard against fraud and manipulation in the Nation s commodity exchange market . These measures are a pledge to our people to keep them safe in their homes and at work , and to give them a fair deal in the marketplace . And I think we must do more . I propose New powers for the Federal Trade Commission to stop those who defraud and who swindle our public . New safeguards to insure the quality of fish and poultry , and the safety of our community water supplies . A major study of automobile insurance . Protection against hazardous radiation from television sets and other electronic equipment . And to give the consumer a stronger voice , I plan to appoint a consumer counsel in the Justice Department a lawyer for the American consumer to work directly under the Attorney General , to serve the President s Special Assistant for Consumer Affairs , and to serve the consumers of this land . This Congress Democrats and Republicans can earn the thanks of history . We can make this truly a new day for the American consumer , and by giving him this protection we can live in history as the consumer conscious Congress . So let us get on with the work . Let us act soon . We , at every level of the government , State , local , Federal , know that the American people have had enough of rising crime and lawlessness in this country . They recognize that law enforcement is first the duty of local police and local government . They recognize that the frontline headquarters against crime is in the home , the church , the city hall and the county courthouse and the statehouse not in the far removed National Capital of Washington . But the people also recognize that the National Government can and the National Government should help the cities and the States in their war on crime to the full extent of its resources and its constitutional authority . And this we shall do . This does not mean a national police force . It does mean help and financial support to develop State and local master plans to combat crime , to provide better training and better pay for police , and to bring the most advanced technology to the war on crime in every city and every county in America . There is no more urgent business before this Congress than to pass the Safe Streets Act this year that I proposed last year . That law will provide these required funds . They are so critically needed that I have doubled my request under this act to 100 million in fiscal 1969 . And I urge the Congress to stop the trade in mail order murder , to stop it this year by adopting a proper gun control law . This year , I will propose a Drug Control Act to provide stricter penalties for those who traffic in LSD and other dangerous drugs with our people . I will ask for more vigorous enforcement of all of our drug laws by increasing the number of Federal drug and narcotics control officials by more than 30 percent . The time has come to stop the sale of slavery to the young . I also request you to give us funds to add immediately 100 assistant United States attorneys throughout the land to help prosecute our criminal laws . We have increased our judiciary by 40 percent and we have increased our prosecutors by 16 percent . The dockets are full of cases because we do not have assistant district attorneys to go before the Federal judge and handle them . We start these young lawyers at 8 , 200 a year . And the docket is clogged because we do not have authority to hire more of them . I ask the Congress for authority to hire 100 more . These young men will give special attention to this drug abuse , too . Finally , I ask you to add 100 FBI agents to strengthen law enforcement in the Nation and to protect the individual rights of every citizen . A moment ago I spoke of despair and frustrated hopes in the cities where the fires of disorder burned last summer . We can and in time we will change that despair into confidence , and change those frustrations into achievements . But violence will never bring progress . We can make progress only by attacking the causes of violence and only where there is civil order founded on justice . Today we are helping local officials improve their capacity to deal promptly with disorders . Those who preach disorder and those who preach violence must know that local authorities are able to resist them swiftly , to resist them sternly , and to resist them decisively . I shall recommend other actions To raise the farmers income by establishing a security commodity reserve that will protect the market from price depressing stocks and protect the consumer from food scarcity . I shall recommend programs to help farmers bargain more effectively for fair prices . I shall recommend programs for new air safety measures . Measures to stem the rising costs of medical care . Legislation to encourage our returning veterans to devote themselves to careers in community service such as teaching , and being firemen , and joining our police force , and our law enforcement officials . I shall recommend programs to strengthen and finance our anti pollution efforts . Fully funding all of the 2 . 18 billion poverty program that you in the Congress had just authorized in order to bring opportunity to those who have been left far behind . I shall recommend an Educational Opportunity Act to speed up our drive to break down the financial barriers that are separating our young people from college . I shall also urge the Congress to act on several other vital pending bills especially the civil rights measures fair jury trials , protection of Federal rights , enforcement of equal employment opportunity , and fair housing . The unfinished work of the first session must be completed the Higher Education Act , the Juvenile Delinquency Act , conservation measures to save the redwoods of California , and to preserve the wonders of our scenic rivers , the Highway Beautification Act and all the other measures for a cleaner , and for a better , and for a more beautiful America . Next month we will begin our 8th year of uninterrupted prosperity . The economic outlook for this year is one of steady growth if we are vigilant . True , there are some clouds on the horizon . Prices are rising . Interest rates have passed the peak of 1966 and if there is continued inaction on the tax bill , they will climb even higher . I warn the Congress and the Nation tonight that this failure to act on the tax bill will sweep us into an accelerating spiral of price increases , a slump in homebuilding , and a continuing erosion of the American dollar . This would be a tragedy for every American family . And I predict that if this happens , they will all let us know about it . We those of us in the executive branch , in the Congress , and the leaders of labor and business must do everything we can to prevent that kind of misfortune . Under the new budget , the expenditures for 1969 will increase by 10 . 4 billion . Receipts will increase by 22 . 3 billion including the added tax revenues . Virtually all of this expenditure increase represents the mandatory cost of our defense efforts , 3 billion increased interest , almost 1 billion or mandatory payments under laws passed by Congress such as those provided in the Social Security Act that you passed in 1967 , and to Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries , veterans , and farmers , of about 4 1 2 billion and the additional 1 billion 600 million next year for the pay increases that you passed in military and civilian pay . That makes up the 10 billion that is added to the budget . With few exceptions , very few , we are holding the fiscal 1969 budget to last year s level , outside of those mandatory and required increases . A Presidential commission composed of distinguished congressional fiscal leaders and other prominent Americans recommended this year that we adopt a new budget approach . I am carrying out their recommendations in this year s budget . This budget , therefore , for the first time accurately covers all Federal expenditures and all Federal receipts , including for the first time in one budget 47 billion from the social security , Medicare , highway , and other trust funds . The fiscal 1969 budget has expenditures of approximately 186 billion , with total estimated revenues , including the tax bill , of about 178 billion . If the Congress enacts the tax increase , we will reduce the budget deficit by some 12 billion . The war in Vietnam is costing us about 25 billion and we are asking for about 12 billion in taxes and if we get that 12 billion tax bill we will reduce the deficit from about 20 billion in 1968 to about 8 billion in 1969 . Now , this is a tight budget . It follows the reduction that I made in cooperation with the Congress a reduction made after you had reviewed every appropriations bill and reduced the appropriations by some 5 or 6 billion and expenditures by 1 . 5 billion . We conferred together and I recommended to the Congress and you subsequently approved taking 2 percent from payrolls and 10 percent from controllable expenditures . We therefore reduced appropriations almost 10 billion last session and expenditures over 4 billion . Now , that was in the budget last year . I ask the Congress to recognize that there are certain selected programs that meet the Nation s most urgent needs and they have increased . We have insisted that decreases in very desirable but less urgent programs be made before we would approve any increases . So I ask the Congress tonight to hold its appropriations to the budget requests , and to act responsibly early this year by enacting the tax surcharge which for the average American individual amounts to about a penny out of each dollar s income . This tax increase would yield about half of the 23 billion per year that we returned to the people in the tax reduction bills of 1964 and 1965 . This must be a temporary measure , which expires in less than 2 years . Congress can repeal it sooner if the need has passed . But Congress can never repeal inflation . The leaders of American business and the leaders of American labor those who really have power over wages and prices must act responsibly , and in their Nation s interest by keeping increases in line with productivity . If our recognized leaders do not do this , they and those for whom they speak and all of us are going to suffer very serious consequences . On January 1st , I outlined a program to reduce our balance of payments deficit sharply this year . We will ask the Congress to help carry out those parts of the program which require legislation . We must restore equilibrium to our balance of payments . We must also strengthen the international monetary system . We have assured the world that America s full gold stock stands behind our commitment to maintain the price of gold at 35 an ounce . We must back this commitment by legislating now to free our gold reserves . Americans , traveling more than any other people in history , took 4 billion out of their country last year in travel costs . We must try to reduce the travel deficit that we have of more than 2 billion . We are hoping that we can reduce it by 500 million without unduly penalizing the travel of teachers , students , business people who have essential and necessary travel , or people who have relatives abroad whom they want to see . Even with this reduction of 500 million , the American people will still be traveling more overseas than they did in 1967 , 1966 , or 1965 or any other year in their history . If we act together as I hope we can , I believe we can continue our economic expansion which has already broken all past records . And I hope that we can continue that expansion in the days ahead . Each of these questions I have discussed with you tonight is a question of policy for our people . Therefore , each of them should be and doubtless will be debated by candidates for public office this year . I hope those debates will be marked by new proposals and by a seriousness that matches the gravity of the questions themselves . These are not appropriate subjects for narrow partisan oratory . They go to the heart of what we Americans are all about all of us , Democrats and Republicans . Tonight I have spoken of some of the goals I should like to see America reach . Many of them can be achieved this year others by the time we celebrate our Nation s 200th birthday the bicentennial of our independence . Several of these goals are going to be very hard to reach . But the State of our Union will be much stronger 8 years from now on our 200th birthday if we resolve to reach these goals now . They are more important much more important than the identity of the party or the President who will then be in office . These goals are what the fighting and our alliances are really meant to protect . Can we achieve these goals Of course we can if we will . If ever there was a people who sought more than mere abundance , it is our people . If ever there was a nation that was capable of solving its problems , it is this Nation . If ever there were a time to know the pride and the excitement and the hope of being an American it is this time . So this , my friends , is the State of our Union seeking , building , tested many times in this past year and always equal to the test . Thank you and good night . Speaker , President , Members of the Congress , and my fellow Americans I was thinking as I was walking down the aisle tonight of what Sam Rayburn told me many years ago The Congress always extends a very warm welcome to the President as he comes in . Thank all of you very , very much . I have come once again to this Chamber the home of our democracy to give you , as the Constitution requires , Information of the State of the Union . I report to you that our country is challenged , at home and abroad that it is our will that is being tried , not our strength our sense of purpose , not our ability to achieve a better America that we have the strength to meet our every challenge the physical strength to hold the course of decency and compassion at home and the moral strength to support the cause of peace in the world . And I report to you that I believe , with abiding conviction , that this people nurtured by their deep faith , tutored by their hard lessons , moved by their high aspirations have the will to meet the trials that these times impose . Since I reported to you last January Three elections have been held in Vietnam in the midst of war and under the constant threat of violence . A President , a Vice President , a House and Senate , and village officials have been chosen by popular , contested ballot . The enemy has been defeated in battle after battle . The number of South Vietnamese living in areas under Government protection tonight has grown by more than a million since January of last year . These are all marks of progress . Yet The enemy continues to pour men and material across frontiers and into battle , despite his continuous heavy losses . He continues to hope that America s will to persevere can be broken . Well he is wrong . America will persevere . Our patience and our perseverance will match our power . Aggression will never prevail . But our goal is peace and peace at the earliest possible moment . Right now we are exploring the meaning of Hanoi s recent statement . There is no mystery about the questions which must be answered before the bombing is stopped . We believe that any talks should follow the San Antonio formula that I stated last September , which said The bombing would stop immediately if talks would take place promptly and with reasonable hopes that they would be productive . And the other side must not take advantage of our restraint as they have in the past . This Nation simply cannot accept anything less without jeopardizing the lives of our men and of our allies . If a basis for peace talks can be established on the San Antonio foundations and it is my hope and my prayer that they can we would consult with our allies and with the other side to see if a complete cessation of hostilities a really true cease fire could be made the first order of business . I will report at the earliest possible moment the results of these explorations to the American people . I have just recently returned from a very fruitful visit and talks with His Holiness the Pope and I share his hope as he expressed it earlier today that both sides will extend themselves in an effort to bring an end to the war in Vietnam . I have today assured him that we and our allies will do our full part to bring this about . Since I spoke to you last January , other events have occurred that have major consequences for world peace . The Kennedy Round achieved the greatest reduction in tariff barriers in all the history of trade negotiations . The nations of Latin America at Punta del Este resolved to move toward economic integration . In Asia , the nations from Korea and Japan to Indonesia and Singapore worked behind America s shield to strengthen their economies and to broaden their political cooperation . In Africa , from which the distinguished Vice President has just returned , he reports to me that there is a spirit of regional cooperation that is beginning to take hold in very practical ways . These events we all welcomed . Yet since I last reported to you , we and the world have been confronted by a number of crises During the Arab Israeli war last June , the hot line between Washington and Moscow was used for the first time in our history . A cease fire was achieved without a major power confrontation . Now the nations of the Middle East have the opportunity to cooperate with Ambassador Jarring s mission and they have the responsibility to find the terms of living together in stable peace and dignity , and we shall do all in our power to help them achieve that result . Not far from this scene of conflict , a crisis flared on Cyprus involving two peoples who are America s friends Greece and Turkey . Our very able representative , Cyrus Vance , and others helped to ease this tension . Turmoil continues on the mainland of China after a year of violent disruption . The radical extremism of their Government has isolated the Chinese people behind their own borders . The United States , however , remains willing to permit the travel of journalists to both our countries to undertake cultural and educational exchanges and to talk about the exchange of basic food crop materials . Since I spoke to you last , the United States and the Soviet Union have taken several important steps toward the goal of international cooperation . As you will remember , I met with Chairman Kosygin at Glassboro and we achieved if not accord , at least a clearer understanding of our respective positions after 2 days of meeting . Because we believe the nuclear danger must be narrowed , we have worked with the Soviet Union and with other nations to reach an agreement that will halt the spread of nuclear weapons . On the basis of communications from Ambassador Fisher in Geneva this afternoon , I am encouraged to believe that a draft treaty can be laid before the conference in Geneva in the very near future . I hope to be able to present that treaty to the Senate this year for the Senate s approval . We achieved , in 1967 , a consular treaty with the Soviets , the first commercial air agreement between the two countries , and a treaty banning weapons in outer space . We shall sign , and submit to the Senate shortly , a new treaty with the Soviets and with others for the protection of astronauts . Serious differences still remain between us , yet in these relations , we have made some progress since Vienna , the Berlin Wall , and the Cuban missile crisis . But despite this progress , we must maintain a military force that is capable of deterring any threat to this Nation s security , whatever the mode of aggression . Our choices must not be confined to total war or to total acquiescence . We have such a military force today . We shall maintain it . I wish with all of my heart that the expenditures that are necessary to build and to protect our power could all be devoted to the programs of peace . But until world conditions permit , and until peace is assured , America s might and America s bravest sons who wear our Nation s uniform must continue to stand guard for all of us as they gallantly do tonight in Vietnam and other places in the world . Yet neither great weapons nor individual courage can provide the conditions of peace . For two decades America has committed itself against the tyranny of want and ignorance in the world that threatens the peace . We shall sustain that commitment . This year I shall propose That we launch , with other nations , an exploration of the ocean depths to tap its wealth , and its energy , and its abundance . That we contribute our fair share to a major expansion of the International Development Association , and to increase the resources of the Asian Development Bank . That we adopt a prudent aid program , rooted in the principle of self help . That we renew and extend the food for freedom program . Our food programs have already helped millions avoid the horrors of famine . But unless the rapid growth of population in developing countries is slowed , the gap between rich and poor will widen steadily . Governments in the developing countries must take such facts into consideration . We in the United States are prepared to help assist them in those efforts . But we must also improve the lives of children already born in the villages and towns and cities on this earth . They can be taught by great teachers through space communications and the miracle of satellite television and we are going to bring to bear every resource of mind and technology to help make this dream come true . Let me speak now about some matters here at home . Tonight our Nation is accomplishing more for its people than has ever been accomplished before . Americans are prosperous as men have never been in recorded history . Yet there is in the land a certain restlessness a questioning . The total of our Nation s annual production is now above 800 billion . For 83 months this Nation has been on a steady upward trend of growth . All about them , most American families can see the evidence of growing abundance higher paychecks , humming factories , new cars moving down new highways . More and more families own their own homes , equipped with more than 70 million television sets . A new college is founded every week . Today more than half of the high school graduates go on to college . There are hundreds of thousands of fathers and mothers who never completed grammar school who will see their children graduate from college . Why , then , this restlessness Because when a great ship cuts through the sea , the waters are always stirred and troubled . And our ship is moving . It is moving through troubled and new waters it is moving toward new and better shores . We ask now , not how can we achieve abundance but how shall we use our abundance Not , is there abundance enough for all but , how can all share in our abundance While we have accomplished much , much remains for us to meet and much remains for us to master . In some areas , the jobless rate is still three or four times the national average . Violence has shown its face in some of our cities . Crime increases on our streets . Income for farm workers remains far behind that for urban workers and parity for our farmers who produce our food is still just a hope not an achievement . New housing construction is far less than we need to assure decent shelter for every family . Hospital and medical costs are high , and they are rising . Many rivers and the air in many cities remain badly polluted . And our citizens suffer from breathing that air . We have lived with conditions like these for many , many years . But much that we once accepted as inevitable , we now find absolutely intolerable . In our cities last summer , we saw how wide is the gulf for some Americans between the promise and the reality of our society . We know that we cannot change all of this in a day . It represents the bitter consequences of more than three centuries . But the issue is not whether we can change this the issue is whether we will change this . Well , I know we can . And I believe we will . This then is the work we should do in the months that are ahead of us in this Congress . The first essential is more jobs , useful jobs for tens of thousands who can become productive and can pay their own way . Our economy has created 7 1 2 million new jobs in the past 4 years . It is adding more than a million and a half new jobs this year . Through programs passed by the Congress , job training is being given tonight to more than a million Americans in this country . This year , the time has come when we must get to those who are last in line the hard core unemployed the hardest to reach . Employment officials estimate that 500 , 000 of these persons are now unemployed in the major cities of America . Our objective is to place these 500 , 000 in private industry jobs within the next 3 years . To do this , I propose a 2 . 1 billion manpower program in the coming fiscal year a 25 percent increase over the current year . Most of this increase will be used to start a new partnership between government and private industry to train and to hire the hard core unemployed persons . I know of no task before us of more importance to us , to the country , or to our future . Another essential is to rebuild our cities . Last year the Congress authorized 662 million for the Model Cities program . I requested the full amount of that authorization to help meet the crisis in the cities of America . But the Congress appropriated only 312 million less than half . This year I urge the Congress to honor my request for model cities funds to rebuild the centers of American cities by granting us the full amount that you in the Congress authorized 1 billion . The next essential is more housing and more housing now . Surely a nation that can go to the moon can place a decent home within the reach of its families . Therefore we must call together the resources of industry and labor , to start building 300 , 000 housing units for low and middle income families next year that is three times more than this year . We must make it possible for thousands of families to become homeowners , not rent payers . I propose , for the consideration of this Congress , a 10 year campaign to build 6 million new housing units for low and middle income families . Six million units in the next 10 years . We have built 530 , 000 the last 10 years . Better health for our children all of our children is essential if we are to have a better America . Last year , Medicare , Medicaid , and other new programs that you passed in the Congress brought better health to more than 25 million Americans . American medicine with the very strong support and cooperation of public resources has produced a phenomenal decline in the death rate from many of the dread diseases . But it is a shocking fact that , in saving the lives of babies , America ranks 15th among the nations of the world . And among children , crippling defects are often discovered too late for any corrective action . This is a tragedy that Americans can , and Americans should , prevent . I shall , therefore , propose to the Congress a child health program to provide , over the next 5 years , for families unable to afford it access to health services from prenatal care of the mother through the child s first year . When we do that you will find it is the best investment we ever made because we will get these diseases in their infancy and we will find a cure in a great many instances that we can never find by overcrowding our hospitals when they are grown . Now when we act to advance the consumer s cause I think we help every American . Last year , with very little fanfare the Congress and the executive branch moved in that field . We enacted the Wholesome Meat Act , the Flammable Fabrics Act , the Product Safety Commission , and a law to improve clinical laboratories . And now , I think , the time has come to complete our unfinished work . The Senate has already passed the truth in lending bill , the fire safety bill , and the pipeline safety laws . Tonight I plead with the House to immediately act upon these measures and I hope take favorable action upon all of them . I call upon the Congress to enact , without delay , the remainder of the 12 vital consumer protection laws that I submitted to the Congress last year . I also urge final action on a measure that is already passed by the House to guard against fraud and manipulation in the Nation s commodity exchange market . These measures are a pledge to our people to keep them safe in their homes and at work , and to give them a fair deal in the marketplace . And I think we must do more . I propose New powers for the Federal Trade Commission to stop those who defraud and who swindle our public . New safeguards to insure the quality of fish and poultry , and the safety of our community water supplies . A major study of automobile insurance . Protection against hazardous radiation from television sets and other electronic equipment . And to give the consumer a stronger voice , I plan to appoint a consumer counsel in the Justice Department a lawyer for the American consumer to work directly under the Attorney General , to serve the President s Special Assistant for Consumer Affairs , and to serve the consumers of this land . This Congress Democrats and Republicans can earn the thanks of history . We can make this truly a new day for the American consumer , and by giving him this protection we can live in history as the consumer conscious Congress . So let us get on with the work . Let us act soon . We , at every level of the government , State , local , Federal , know that the American people have had enough of rising crime and lawlessness in this country . They recognize that law enforcement is first the duty of local police and local government . They recognize that the frontline headquarters against crime is in the home , the church , the city hall and the county courthouse and the statehouse not in the far removed National Capital of Washington . But the people also recognize that the National Government can and the National Government should help the cities and the States in their war on crime to the full extent of its resources and its constitutional authority . And this we shall do . This does not mean a national police force . It does mean help and financial support to develop State and local master plans to combat crime , to provide better training and better pay for police , and to bring the most advanced technology to the war on crime in every city and every county in America . There is no more urgent business before this Congress than to pass the Safe Streets Act this year that I proposed last year . That law will provide these required funds . They are so critically needed that I have doubled my request under this act to 100 million in fiscal 1969 . And I urge the Congress to stop the trade in mail order murder , to stop it this year by adopting a proper gun control law . This year , I will propose a Drug Control Act to provide stricter penalties for those who traffic in LSD and other dangerous drugs with our people . I will ask for more vigorous enforcement of all of our drug laws by increasing the number of Federal drug and narcotics control officials by more than 30 percent . The time has come to stop the sale of slavery to the young . I also request you to give us funds to add immediately 100 assistant United States attorneys throughout the land to help prosecute our criminal laws . We have increased our judiciary by 40 percent and we have increased our prosecutors by 16 percent . The dockets are full of cases because we do not have assistant district attorneys to go before the Federal judge and handle them . We start these young lawyers at 8 , 200 a year . And the docket is clogged because we do not have authority to hire more of them . I ask the Congress for authority to hire 100 more . These young men will give special attention to this drug abuse , too . Finally , I ask you to add 100 FBI agents to strengthen law enforcement in the Nation and to protect the individual rights of every citizen . A moment ago I spoke of despair and frustrated hopes in the cities where the fires of disorder burned last summer . We can and in time we will change that despair into confidence , and change those frustrations into achievements . But violence will never bring progress . We can make progress only by attacking the causes of violence and only where there is civil order founded on justice . Today we are helping local officials improve their capacity to deal promptly with disorders . Those who preach disorder and those who preach violence must know that local authorities are able to resist them swiftly , to resist them sternly , and to resist them decisively . I shall recommend other actions To raise the farmers income by establishing a security commodity reserve that will protect the market from price depressing stocks and protect the consumer from food scarcity . I shall recommend programs to help farmers bargain more effectively for fair prices . I shall recommend programs for new air safety measures . Measures to stem the rising costs of medical care . Legislation to encourage our returning veterans to devote themselves to careers in community service such as teaching , and being firemen , and joining our police force , and our law enforcement officials . I shall recommend programs to strengthen and finance our anti pollution efforts . Fully funding all of the 2 . 18 billion poverty program that you in the Congress had just authorized in order to bring opportunity to those who have been left far behind . I shall recommend an Educational Opportunity Act to speed up our drive to break down the financial barriers that are separating our young people from college . I shall also urge the Congress to act on several other vital pending bills especially the civil rights measures fair jury trials , protection of Federal rights , enforcement of equal employment opportunity , and fair housing . The unfinished work of the first session must be completed the Higher Education Act , the Juvenile Delinquency Act , conservation measures to save the redwoods of California , and to preserve the wonders of our scenic rivers , the Highway Beautification Act and all the other measures for a cleaner , and for a better , and for a more beautiful America . Next month we will begin our 8th year of uninterrupted prosperity . The economic outlook for this year is one of steady growth if we are vigilant . True , there are some clouds on the horizon . Prices are rising . Interest rates have passed the peak of 1966 and if there is continued inaction on the tax bill , they will climb even higher . I warn the Congress and the Nation tonight that this failure to act on the tax bill will sweep us into an accelerating spiral of price increases , a slump in homebuilding , and a continuing erosion of the American dollar . This would be a tragedy for every American family . And I predict that if this happens , they will all let us know about it . We those of us in the executive branch , in the Congress , and the leaders of labor and business must do everything we can to prevent that kind of misfortune . Under the new budget , the expenditures for 1969 will increase by 10 . 4 billion . Receipts will increase by 22 . 3 billion including the added tax revenues . Virtually all of this expenditure increase represents the mandatory cost of our defense efforts , 3 billion increased interest , almost 1 billion or mandatory payments under laws passed by Congress such as those provided in the Social Security Act that you passed in 1967 , and to Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries , veterans , and farmers , of about 4 1 2 billion and the additional 1 billion 600 million next year for the pay increases that you passed in military and civilian pay . That makes up the 10 billion that is added to the budget . With few exceptions , very few , we are holding the fiscal 1969 budget to last year s level , outside of those mandatory and required increases . A Presidential commission composed of distinguished congressional fiscal leaders and other prominent Americans recommended this year that we adopt a new budget approach . I am carrying out their recommendations in this year s budget . This budget , therefore , for the first time accurately covers all Federal expenditures and all Federal receipts , including for the first time in one budget 47 billion from the social security , Medicare , highway , and other trust funds . The fiscal 1969 budget has expenditures of approximately 186 billion , with total estimated revenues , including the tax bill , of about 178 billion . If the Congress enacts the tax increase , we will reduce the budget deficit by some 12 billion . The war in Vietnam is costing us about 25 billion and we are asking for about 12 billion in taxes and if we get that 12 billion tax bill we will reduce the deficit from about 20 billion in 1968 to about 8 billion in 1969 . Now , this is a tight budget . It follows the reduction that I made in cooperation with the Congress a reduction made after you had reviewed every appropriations bill and reduced the appropriations by some 5 or 6 billion and expenditures by 1 . 5 billion . We conferred together and I recommended to the Congress and you subsequently approved taking 2 percent from payrolls and 10 percent from controllable expenditures . We therefore reduced appropriations almost 10 billion last session and expenditures over 4 billion . Now , that was in the budget last year . I ask the Congress to recognize that there are certain selected programs that meet the Nation s most urgent needs and they have increased . We have insisted that decreases in very desirable but less urgent programs be made before we would approve any increases . So I ask the Congress tonight to hold its appropriations to the budget requests , and to act responsibly early this year by enacting the tax surcharge which for the average American individual amounts to about a penny out of each dollar s income . This tax increase would yield about half of the 23 billion per year that we returned to the people in the tax reduction bills of 1964 and 1965 . This must be a temporary measure , which expires in less than 2 years . Congress can repeal it sooner if the need has passed . But Congress can never repeal inflation . The leaders of American business and the leaders of American labor those who really have power over wages and prices must act responsibly , and in their Nation s interest by keeping increases in line with productivity . If our recognized leaders do not do this , they and those for whom they speak and all of us are going to suffer very serious consequences . On January 1st , I outlined a program to reduce our balance of payments deficit sharply this year . We will ask the Congress to help carry out those parts of the program which require legislation . We must restore equilibrium to our balance of payments . We must also strengthen the international monetary system . We have assured the world that America s full gold stock stands behind our commitment to maintain the price of gold at 35 an ounce . We must back this commitment by legislating now to free our gold reserves . Americans , traveling more than any other people in history , took 4 billion out of their country last year in travel costs . We must try to reduce the travel deficit that we have of more than 2 billion . We are hoping that we can reduce it by 500 million without unduly penalizing the travel of teachers , students , business people who have essential and necessary travel , or people who have relatives abroad whom they want to see . Even with this reduction of 500 million , the American people will still be traveling more overseas than they did in 1967 , 1966 , or 1965 or any other year in their history . If we act together as I hope we can , I believe we can continue our economic expansion which has already broken all past records . And I hope that we can continue that expansion in the days ahead . Each of these questions I have discussed with you tonight is a question of policy for our people . Therefore , each of them should be and doubtless will be debated by candidates for public office this year . I hope those debates will be marked by new proposals and by a seriousness that matches the gravity of the questions themselves . These are not appropriate subjects for narrow partisan oratory . They go to the heart of what we Americans are all about all of us , Democrats and Republicans . Tonight I have spoken of some of the goals I should like to see America reach . Many of them can be achieved this year others by the time we celebrate our Nation s 200th birthday the bicentennial of our independence . Several of these goals are going to be very hard to reach . But the State of our Union will be much stronger 8 years from now on our 200th birthday if we resolve to reach these goals now . They are more important much more important than the identity of the party or the President who will then be in office . These goals are what the fighting and our alliances are really meant to protect . Can we achieve these goals Of course we can if we will . If ever there was a people who sought more than mere abundance , it is our people . If ever there was a nation that was capable of solving its problems , it is this Nation . If ever there were a time to know the pride and the excitement and the hope of being an American it is this time . So this , my friends , is the State of our Union seeking , building , tested many times in this past year and always equal to the test . Thank you and good night .<speech_sep>Mayor Daley , Wasilewski , ladies and gentlemen Some of you might have thought from what I said last night that I had been taking elocution lessons from Lowell Thomas . One of my aides said this morning , Things are really getting confused around Washington , President . I said , How is that He said , It looks to me like you are going to the wrong convention in Chicago . I said , Well , what you overlooked was that it is April Fool . Once again we are entering the period of national festivity which Henry Adams called the dance of democracy . At its best , that can be a time of debate and enlightenment . At its worst , it can be a period of frenzy . But always it is a time when emotion threatens to substitute for reason . Yet the basic hope of a democracy is that somehow amid all the frenzy and all the emotion in the end , reason will prevail . Reason just must prevail if democracy itself is to survive . As I said last evening , there are very deep and very emotional divisions in this land that we love today domestic divisions , divisions over the war in Vietnam . With all of my heart , I just wish this were not so . My entire career in public life some 37 years of it has been devoted to the art of finding an area of agreement because generally speaking , I have observed that there are so many more things to unite us Americans than there are to divide us . But somehow or other , we have a facility sometimes of emphasizing the divisions and the things that divide us instead of discussing the things that unite us . Sometimes I have been called a seeker of consensus more often that has been criticism of my actions instead of praise of them . But I have never denied it . Because to heal and to build support , to hold people together , is something I think is worthy and I believe it is a noble task . It is certainly a challenge for all of us in this land and this world where there is restlessness and uncertainty and danger . In my region of the country where I have spent my life , where brother was once divided against brother , my heritage has burned this lesson and it has burned it deep in my memory . Yet along the way I learned somewhere that no leader can pursue public tranquillity as his first and only goal . For a President to buy public popularity at the sacrifice of his better judgment is too dear a price to pay . This Nation cannot afford such a price , and this Nation cannot long afford such a leader . So , the things that divide our country this morning will be discussed throughout the land . I am certain that the very great majority of informed Americans will act , as they have always acted , to do what is best for their country and what serves the national interest . But the real problem of informing the people is still with us . I think I can speak with some authority about the problem of communication . I understand , far better than some of my severe and perhaps intolerant critics would admit , my own shortcomings as a communicator . How does a public leader find just the right word or the right way to say no more or no less than he means to say bearing in mind that anything he says may topple governments and may involve the lives of innocent men How does that leader speak the right phrase , in the right way , under the right conditions , to suit the accuracies and contingencies of the moment when he is discussing questions of policy , so that he does not stir a thousand misinterpretations and leave the wrong connotation or impression How does he reach the immediate audience and how does he communicate with the millions of others who are out there listening from afar The President , who must call his people and summon them to meet their responsibilities as citizens in a hard and an enduring war , often ponders these questions and searches for the right course . You men and women who are masters of the broadcast media surely must know what I am talking about . It was a long time ago when a President once said , The printing press is the most powerful weapon with which man has ever armed himself . In our age , the electronic media have added immeasurably to man s power . You have within your hands the means to make our Nation as intimate and as informed as a New England town meeting . Yet the use of broadcasting has not cleared away all of the problems that we still have of communications . In some ways , I think , sometimes it has complicated them , because it tends to put the leader in a time capsule . It requires him often to abbreviate what he has to say . Too often , it may catch a random phrase from his rather lengthy discourse and project it as the whole story . How many men , I wonder , Mayor Daley , in public life have watched themselves on a TV newscast and then been tempted to exclaim , Can that really be me Well , there is no denying it You of the broadcast industry have enormous power in your hands . You have the power to clarify and you have the power to confuse . Men in public life cannot remotely rival your opportunity clay after day , night after night , hour after hour on the hour and the half hour , sometimes you shape the Nation s dialogue . The words that you choose , hopefully always accurate , and hopefully always just , are the words that are carried out for all of the people to hear . The commentary that you provide can give the real meaning to the issues of the day or it can distort them beyond all meaning . By your standards of what is news , you can cultivate wisdom or you can nurture misguided passion . Your commentary carries an added element of uncertainty . Unlike the printed media , television writes on the wind . There is no accumulated record which the historian can examine later with a 20 20 vision of hindsight , asking these questions How fair was he tonight How impartial was he today How honest was he all along Well , I hope the National Association of Broadcasters , with whom I have had a pleasant association for many years , will point the way to all of us in developing this kind of a record because history is going to be asking very hard questions about our times and the period through which we are passing . I think that we all owe it to history to complete the record . But I did not come here this morning to sermonize . In matters of fairness and judgment , no law or no set of regulations and no words of mine can improve you or dictate your daily responsibility . All I mean to do , and what I am trying to do , is to remind you where there is great power , there must also be great responsibility . This is true for broadcasters just as it is true for Presidents and seekers for the Presidency . What we say and what we do now will shape the kind of a world that we pass along to our children and our grandchildren . I keep this thought constantly in my mind during the long days and the somewhat longer nights when crisis comes at home and abroad . I took a little of your prime time last night . I would not have done that except for a very prime purpose . I reported on the prospects for peace in Vietnam . I announced that the United States is taking a very important unilateral act of de escalation which could and I fervently pray will lead to mutual moves to reduce the level of violence and to deescalate the war . As I sat in my office last evening , waiting to speak , I thought of the many times each week when television brings the war into the American home . No one can say exactly what effect those vivid scenes have on American opinion . Historians must only guess at the effect that television would have had during earlier conflicts on the future of this Nation during the Korean war , for example , at that time when our forces were pushed back there to Pusan or World War Ithe Battle of the Bulge , or when our men were slugging it out in Europe or when most of our Air Force was shot down that day in June 1942 off Australia . But last night television was being used to carry a different message . It was a message of peace . It occurred to me that the medium may be somewhat better suited to conveying the actions of conflict than to dramatizing the words that the leaders use in trying and hoping to end the conflict . Certainly , it is more dramatic to show policemen and rioters locked in combat than to show men trying to cooperate with one another . The face of hatred and of bigotry comes through much more clearly no matter what its color . The face of tolerance , I seem to find , is rarely newsworthy . Progress whether it is a man being trained for a job or millions being trained or whether it is a child in Head Start learning to read or an older person of 72 in adult education or being cared for in Medicare rarely makes the news , although more than 20 million of them are affected by it . Perhaps this is because tolerance and progress are not dynamic events such as riots and conflicts are events . Peace , in the news sense , is a condition . War is an event . Part of your responsibility is simply to understand the consequences of that fact the consequences of your own acts , and part of that responsibility , I think , is to try as very best we all can to draw the attention of our people to the real business of society in our system finding and securing peace in the world at home and abroad . For all that you have done and that you are doing and that you will do to this end , I thank you and I commend you . I pray that the message of peace that I tried so hard to convey last night will be accepted in good faith by the leaders of North Vietnam . I pray that one time soon , the evening news show will have , not another battle in the scarred hills of Vietnam , but will show men entering a room to talk about peace . That is the event that I think the American people are yearning and longing to see . President Thieu of Vietnam and his Government are now engaged in very urgent political and economic tasks which I referred to last night and which we regard as very constructive and hopeful . We hope the Government of South Vietnam makes great progress in the days ahead . But some time in the weeks ahead immediately , I hope President Thieu will be in a position to accept my invitation to visit the United States so he can come here and see our people too , and together we can strengthen and improve our plans to advance the day of peace . I pray that you and that every American will take to heart my plea that we guard against divisiveness . We have won too much , we have come too far , and we have opened too many doors of opportunity , for these things now to be lost in a divided country where brother is separated from brother . For the time that is allotted me , I shall do everything in one man s power to hasten the day when the world is at peace and Americans of all races and all creeds of all convictions can live together without fear or without suspicion or without distrust in unity , and in common purpose . United we are strong divided we are in great danger . In speaking as I did to the Nation last night , I was moved by the very deep convictions that I entertain about the nature of the office that it is my present privilege to hold . The Office of the Presidency is the only office in this land of all the people . Whatever may be the personal wishes or preferences of any man who holds it , a President of all the people can afford no thought of self . At no time and in no way and for no reason can a President allow the integrity or the responsibility or the freedom of the office ever to be compromised or diluted or destroyed because when you destroy it , you destroy yourselves . I hope and I pray that by not allowing the Presidency to be involved in divisions and deep partisanship , I shall be able to pass on to my successor a stronger office strong enough to guard and defend all the people against all the storms that the future may bring us . You men and women who have come here to this great progressive city of Chicago , led by this dynamic and great public servant , Dick Daley , are yourselves charged with a peculiar responsibility . You are yourselves trustees , legally accepted trustees and legally selected trustees of a great institution on which the freedom of our land utterly depends . The security , the success of our country , what happens to us tomorrow rests squarely upon the media which disseminate the truth on which the decisions of democracy are made . An informed mind and we get a great deal of our information from you is the guardian genius of democracy . So , you are the keepers of a trust . You must be just . You must guard and you must defend your media against the spirit of faction , against the works of divisiveness and bigotry , against the corrupting evils of partisanship in any guise . For America s press , as for the American Presidency , the integrity and the responsibility and the freedom the freedom to know the truth and let the truth make us free must never be compromised or diluted or destroyed . The defense of our media is your responsibility . Government cannot and must not and never will as long as I have anything to do about it intervene in that role . But I do want to leave this thought with you as I leave you this morning I hope that you will give this trust your closest care , acting as I know you can , to guard not only against the obvious , but to watch for the hidden the sometimes unintentional , the often petty intrusions upon the integrity of the information by which Americans decide . Men and women of the airways fully as much as men and women of public service have a public trust and if liberty is to survive and to succeed , that solemn trust must be faithfully kept . I do not want and I do not think you want to wake up some morning and find America changed because we slept when we should have been awake , because we remained silent when we should have spoken up , because we went along with what was popular and fashionable and in rather than what was necessary and what was right . Being faithful to our trust ought to be the prime test of any public trustee in office or on the airways . In any society , all you students of history know that a time of division is a time of danger . And in these times now we must never forget that eternal vigilance is the price of liberty . Thank you for wanting me to come . I have enjoyed it .<speech_sep>Secretary Rusk , and members of the Cabinet , Speaker McCormack , Leaders Mansfield and Dirksen , ladies and gentlemen I leave you this morning to undertake a hopeful mission . I go to visit six nations which , working with others , are beginning to shape a new regional life in Asia and the Pacific . I have followed with admiration the energetic progress made in Asia by Asians . I have been happy to receive at the White House recently the leaders of those countries . Now I am availing myself of this opportunity to repay their visits and to see their people , and to visit in their great countries . I go to learn of their progress and problems , their hopes and their concerns for their children and for their future . At Manila we shall consider the problem of Vietnam . A small Asian nation is under attack , defending itself with extraordinary courage and endurance . I go to confer with its leaders and with the leaders of those other nations that have committed their young men to defeat aggression and to help those 15 million people shape their own destiny . We shall review the state of military operations but we shall mainly devote our attention to the civil , constructive side of the problem of Vietnam . We shall together seek ways of bringing about an honorable peace at the earliest possible moment . I know that I can wave no wand . I do not expect anything magical to happen or any miracles to develop . But as I undertake this mission on behalf of our entire Nation at a most critical time in our history , I am inspired and strengthened by the presence of the leaders of the Congress here this morning , the members of the Cabinet , and by the unity of the American people . I ask for your prayers . I shall do my best to advance the cause of peace and of human progress . Thank all of you very much .<speech_sep>Governor and Morrison , Mayor Al Sorensen , Governor Phil Sorensen , my dear and good friend Congressman Callan , ladies and gentlemen of the great State of Nebraska I want you to know , Governor Morrison , that I have not been able to hear much about anything , since you and Mayor Sorensen and Governor Sorensen and Morrison kept Lady Bird out here beautifying for an entire day , except about the glories of Nebraska . I am delighted to come back to Omaha and to this great State to confirm all the good things that she has said to me about you . I have come to Omaha today because I want to speak to you about the most important business in our time the business of peace in the world . Two years ago this week , when I was also speaking out here in the Midwest , I said that the peace we seek is a world where no nation fears another , or no nation can force another to follow its command . It is a world where differences are solved without destruction and common effort is directed at common problems . This is still true as we meet here this afternoon . I am convinced that after decades of wars and threats of wars , peace is more within our reach than at any time in this century . I believe this because we have made up our minds to deal with the two most common threats to peace in the world . We are determined to match our resolution with action . But what are these threats First is the desire of most people to win a better way of life . That is true of you here in Omaha , and that is true of most people who want to win a better way of life everywhere in the world . Second is the design of a few people , the design of some people , to force their particular way of life on other people . Now if we ignore these threats , or if we attempt to meet them only by the rhetoric of visionary intentions instead of good works of determination , I am certain that tyranny and not peace will be our ultimate fate . If the strong and the wealthy turn from the needs of the weak and the poor , frustration is sure to be followed by force . No peace and no power is strong enough to stand for long against the restless discontent of millions of human beings who are without any hope . That is why we stand here this afternoon in Omaha , at the end of a very important lifeline . At the other end of that lifeline , 8 , 000 long miles out yonder , is India India , a nation of 500 million human beings . The wheat here this afternoon is part of their shield against the catastrophe of drought and famine . This single load of grain will provide the margin of life for more than 2 , 500 families throughout the entire balance of this year . But it is only a very tiny fraction of what America s response to India s need has been . I would remind you that since January 1 , 5 million tons of American wheat have already been shipped to India . That is more than 2 1 2 times the annual wheat production of the State of Nebraska . And this is only about half the grain that we and other nations are providing India this year in order to help her overcome the worst drought that her people have ever suffered in the history of her nation . And America s job is not yet over . Here , today , in the center of the greatest food producing area anywhere on this globe , we Americans must face a sobering fact Most of the world s population is losing the battle to feed itself . If present trends continue , we can now see the point at which even our own vast productive resources , including the millions of acres of farmlands that we now hold in reserve , will not be sufficient to meet the requirements of human beings for food . In my Food for Freedom message that the President sent to the Congress , I requested the authority and the funds to provide food on very special terms to those countries that are willing to increase their own production . We will lend America s technical knowledge . We will lend America s practical experience to those people who need it most and who are willing to prove to us that they are willing to try to help themselves . In addition to that , we will support programs of capital investment , water development , farm machinery , pesticides , seed research , and fertilizer . We will introduce all the American know how in their country to try to help them learn to produce the food that is necessary to satisfy the human bodies that live in their land . Now these are only beginnings . We must work for a global effort . Hunger knows no ideology . Hunger knows no single race or no single nationality , no party Democratic or Republican . We recognize the contributions of the Soviet Union . We recognize the contributions of Yugoslavia in contributing food to India . We are glad that they saw fit to try to do their part . We welcome the support of every nation in the world when that support is given to feeding hungry human beings . In this kind of cooperation we find the seeds of unity against the common enemies of all mankind . I long for the day when we and others whatever their political creed will turn our joint resources to the battle against poverty , ignorance , and disease . Because I honestly believe that these enemies poverty and ignorance and disease are the enemies of peace in the world . But that day is not here because some men , in some places , still insist on trying to force their way of life on other people . That is the second threat that I want to talk about out here in Omaha today . That is the second threat to peace trying to force their way of life on other people . That is the threat that we are standing up to with our proud sailors , soldiers , airmen , and Marines in South Vietnam at this hour . Now I want to point out to you that the conflict there is important for many reasons , but I have time to mention only a few . I am going to mention three specifically . The first reason We believe that the rights of other people are just as important as our own . We believe that we are obligated to help those whose rights are being threatened by brute force . Individuals can never escape a sense of decency and respect for others neither can democratic nations . If one man here in Omaha unlawfully forces another to do what he commands , then you rebel against the injustice , because you know it is wrong for one man here in Omaha to force another one to do what he wants him to do . Unless human concern has disappeared from all of our values , you also know that it is necessary I emphasize necessary to help that man that is being forced to defend himself . This same principle is true for nations nations which live by respect of the rights of others . If one government uses force to violate another people s rights , we cannot ignore the injustice , the threat to our own rights , the danger to peace in the entire world . That is what is happening at this hour in South Vietnam . The North Vietnamese are trying to deny the people of South Vietnam the right to build their own nation , the right to choose their own system of government , the right to live and to work in peace . To those people in America who say they have never had this thing explained to them , I want to repeat that again . The North Vietnamese at this hour are trying to deny the people of South Vietnam the right to build their own nation , the right to choose their own system of government , the right to go and vote in a free election and select their own people , the right to live and work in peace . South Vietnam has asked us for help . Only if we abandon our respect for the rights of other people could we turn down their plea . Second , South Vietnam is important to the security of the rest of all of Asia . A few years ago the nations of free Asia lay under the shadow of Communist China . They faced a common threat , but not in unity . They were still caught up in their old disputes and dangerous confrontations . They were ripe for aggression . Now that picture is changing . Shielded by the courage of the South Vietnamese , the peoples of free Asia today are driving toward economic and social development in a new spirit of regional cooperation . All you have to do is look at that map and you will see independence growing , thriving , blossoming , and blooming . They are convinced that the Vietnamese people and their allies are going to stand firm against the conqueror , or against aggression . Our fighting in Vietnam , therefore , is buying time not only for South Vietnam , but it is buying time for a new and a vital , growing Asia to emerge and develop additional strength . If South Vietnam were to collapse under Communist pressure from the North , the progress in the rest of Asia would be greatly endangered . And do not you forget that The third reason is , what happens in South Vietnam will determine yes , it will determine whether ambitious and aggressive nations can use guerrilla warfare to conquer their weaker neighbors . It will determine whether might makes right . Now I do not know of a single more important reason for our presence than this . We are fighting in South Vietnam a different kind of war than we have ever known in the past . Sixteen years ago this month , North Korea attacked South Korea . By armed invasion across a national border , a Communist country attempted to conquer and overrun its neighbor . The United States of America recognized this kind of aggression immediately and we acted . North Korean aggression failed . Why Because President Harry Truman and the American people , working with the forces of the United Nations , supporting that great leader , had the courage to help the people of South Korea protect their homes and protect their country . Those people are helping us in Vietnam now . Today South Korea is still free and thousands of its young men are again fighting side by side with the Americans to defend another small country from being swallowed up by a more powerful Communist neighbor . Today in South Vietnam we are witness to another kind of armed aggression . It is a war that is waged by men who believe that subversion and guerrilla warfare , transported across international boundaries , can achieve what conventional armies could not . They believe that in the long run a modern scientific and industrial nation such as ours is helpless to defend a smaller and weaker country against the imported terror of guerrilla warfare . That is what is going on there . The Communist guerrillas , the Vietcong , choose their targets carefully . They aim at the heart of a struggling nation by murdering the schoolteachers , by murdering the agricultural extension workers , by killing the health workers , by assassinating the mayors and their families . In 1965 alone the Communists killed or kidnaped 12 , 000 South Vietnamese civilians . That is equivalent to wiping out the entire population of Columbus , Nebraska , or Alliance County , or one out of every 25 citizens that live in this great city of Omaha . If , by such methods , the agents of one nation can go out and hold and seize power where turbulent change is occurring in another nation , our hope for peace and order will suffer a crushing blow all over the world . It will be an invitation to the would be conqueror to keep on marching . That is why the problem of guerrilla warfare the problem of Vietnam is a very critical threat to peace not just in South Vietnam , but in all of this world in which we live . Let there be no doubt about it Those who say this is merely a South Vietnamese civil war could not be more wrong . The warfare in South Vietnam was started by the Government of North Vietnam in 1959 . It is financed , it is supported , by an increasing flow of men and arms from the North into the South . It is directed and it is led by a skilled professional staff of North Vietnamese , and it is supported by a very small minority of the population of South Vietnam . The military tactics are different . The nature of the fighting is different . But the objective is the same as we found it in Korea . The objective is what The objective is to conquer an independent nation by the force and power of arms . Might makes right , so think these Communist invaders . Well , the war took a new turn in 1964 . The North Vietnamese decided to step up the conflict in the hope of an early victory . They recruited and drafted more young men from the Communist areas in the South . They slipped across the borders of South Vietnam more than three divisions of the North Vietnamese Regular Army . Today there are more than three North Vietnamese divisions fighting in South Vietnam . They built all weather roads . The trails turned into boulevards to replace the jungle trails that they had once used . They began sending troops in by trucks rather than on foot . They shifted over to heavy weapons , using imported ammunition , most of it coming from Communist China . By any definition you want to use any definition any lawyer can tell you this This is armed aggression , the philosophy that might makes right . Well , America s purpose is to convince North Vietnam that this kind of aggression is too costly , that this kind of power cannot succeed . We have learned from their prisoners , their defectors , and their captured documents that the Hanoi government really thought a few months ago that conquest was in its grasp . But the free men have rallied to prevent this conquest from succeeding . In the past 15 months our actions and those of our fighting allies of Korea , Australia , New Zealand , and the Philippines , and the courage of the people of South Vietnam , have already begun to turn the tide . The casualties of the Vietcong and the North Vietnamese forces are three times larger than those of the South Vietnamese and their allies . Battle after battle is being won by the South Vietnamese and by the troops under that gallant leader from the United States of America , General Westy Westmoreland . He is getting some military advice on the side from some of our armchair generals in the United States , but it looks to me like he is doing pretty good using his own judgment . The air attacks on military targets in North Vietnam have imposed , and will continue to impose , a growing burden and a high price on those who wage war against the freedom of their neighbors . In the South the Vietnamese are determined that their own economic development , their own social reform and political progress cannot wait until the war ends , so they are now moving toward constitutional government . For the past 2 months the political struggles in South Vietnam have been dramatized in our newspapers . They have been published on our television screen every day . But all during this time , the Vietnamese citizens , representing every important group in the society , have been quietly meeting in orderly assembly . They have formulated rules for their elections . The rules have been accepted with only minor modifications by the government in Saigon . And in the provinces and villages , the Vietnamese have gone on building schools for their children , improving health facilities and agricultural methods , and taking the first steps toward land reform . So we can take heart from all of this . We are backing the Vietnamese not only in their determination to save their country we are supporting their determination to build , to construct , a modern society in which the government will be their government , reflecting the will of the people of South Vietnam . Our objective in Vietnam is not war . Our objective is peace . There is nothing that we want in North Vietnam . There is nothing we want from North Vietnam . There is nothing that we want in Communist China . There is nothing the American people want from Communist China . We have made it very clear by every means at our disposal that we wish the killing to stop . We have made it very clear that we wish negotiations to begin on the basis of international agreements made in 1954 and 1962 . For 37 long days we halted bombing in the North in the hope that the government in Hanoi would signal its willingness to talk instead of fight . But I regret to tell you that no signal came during those 37 days . In many more ways than I can now tell you here in Omaha , we have explored and we are continuing to explore avenues to peace with North Vietnam . But as of this moment , their only reply has been to send more troops and to send more guns into the South . Until the day they decide to end this aggression and to make an honorable peace , I can assure you that we , speaking for the United States of America , intend to carry on . No one knows how long it will take . Only Hanoi can be the judge of that . No one can tell you how much effort it will take . None can tell you how much sacrifice it will take . No one can tell you how costly it will be . But I can , and I do here and now , tell you this The aggression that they are conducting will not succeed . The people of South Vietnam will be given the chance to work out their own destiny in their own way , and not at the point of a bayonet or with a gun at their temple . I hear my friends say , I am troubled , I am confused , I am frustrated , and all of us can understand those people . Sometimes I almost develop a stomach ulcer myself , just listening to them . We all wish the war would end . We all wish the troops would come home . But I want to see the alternatives and the calculations that they have to present that give them a better chance to get the troops home than the very thing we are doing . There is no human being in all this world who wishes these things to happen for peace to come to the world more than your President of the United States . If you are too busy , or not inclined to help , please count 10 before you hurt . Because we must have no doubt today about the determination of the American men wearing American uniforms , the Marines who are out there fighting in the wet jungles , wading through the rice paddies up to their belts , the sailors who are searching the shores and patrolling the seas , the airmen who are out there facing the missiles and the antiaircraft guns , carrying out their mission , trying to protect your liberty . The least they are entitled to is for you to be as brave as they are and to stand up and give them the support they need here at home . These men are not going to fail us . Now the real question is Are we going to fail them Our staying power is what counts in the long and dangerous months ahead . The Communists expect us to lose heart . The Communists expect to wear us down . The Communists expect to divide this Nation . The Communists are not happy about the military defeat they are taking in South Vietnam . But sometimes they do get encouraged , as they said this week , about the dissension in the United States of America . They believe that the political disagreements in Washington , the confusion and doubt in the United States , will hand them a victory on a silver platter in Southeast Asia . Well , if they think that , they are wrong . To those who would try to pressure us or influence us , mislead us or deceive us , I say this afternoon , there can be only one decision in Vietnam , and that is this We will see this through . We shall persist . We shall succeed . Other Presidents have made the commitment . I have reaffirmed it . The Congress has confirmed it . I plan to do all that I can in my own limited way to see that we not permit 14 million innocent men , women , and children to fall victims to a savage aggression . There are many nations , large and small , whose security depends on the reliability of the word and the reliability of the power of the United States . The word of the United States must remain a trust that men can live by , can live with , and can depend upon . Some day we will all work as friends and neighbors to grow more food , to build more schools , to heal the sick , to care for the old , to encourage the young . We have programs in that direction in the United States going on now , and we are not going to junk them . But we are not going to tuck our tail and run out of South Vietnam either . History is not made by nameless forces . History is made by men and women , by their governments and their nations . This Nation , working with others , must demonstrate in Vietnam that our commitment to freedom and peace is not a fragile thing . It can and it will sustain the major test and any test that may confront it . With your support with your faith we will fulfill America s duty . We have a proud and a glorious heritage . We are going to be true to it . It was only 20 months ago that the people of America held a great national election . The people of 44 States of this Union , including the great State of Nebraska , gave me a direction and voted me a majority for the Presidency of this country . I believe that their vote was a trust , that as long as I held this high and most responsible office and gift of the American people , that I would do my best as President of the country , as Commander in Chief of the Army . Now , there are many , many who can recommend , advise , and sometimes a few of them consent . But there is only one that has been chosen by the American people to decide . With your support , with your prayers , with your faith , I intend to honor the responsibility and to be true to the trust of the office to which you elected me , and to preserve freedom in this country to keep our commitments to honor our treaties and let the rest of the world know that when America gives its word , America keeps its word . Thank you .<speech_sep>My fellow Americans I am about to sign into law the Civil Rights Act of 1964 . I want to take this occasion to talk to you about what that law means to every American . One hundred and eighty eight years ago this week a small band of valiant men began a long struggle for freedom . They pledged their lives , their fortunes , and their sacred honor not only to found a nation , but to forge an ideal of freedom not only for political independence , but for personal liberty not only to eliminate foreign rule , but to establish the rule of justice in the affairs of men . That struggle was a turning point in our history . Today in far corners of distant continents , the ideals of those American patriots still shape the struggles of men who hunger for freedom . This is a proud triumph . Yet those who founded our country knew that freedom would be secure only if each generation fought to renew and enlarge its meaning . From the minutemen at Concord to the soldiers in Viet Nam , each generation has been equal to that trust . Americans of every race and color have died in battle to protect our freedom . Americans of every race and color have worked to build a nation of widening opportunities . Now our generation of Americans has been called on to continue the unending search for justice within our own borders . We believe that all men are created equal . Yet many are denied equal treatment . We believe that all men have certain unalienable rights . Yet many Americans do not enjoy those rights . We believe that all men are entitled to the blessings of liberty . Yet millions are being deprived of those blessings not because of their own failures , but because of the color of their skin . The reasons are deeply imbedded in history and tradition and the nature of man . We can understand without rancor or hatred how this all happened . But it cannot continue . Our Constitution , the foundation of our Republic , forbids it . The principles of our freedom forbid it . Morality forbids it . And the law I will sign tonight forbids it . That law is the product of months of the most careful debate and discussion . It was proposed more than one year ago by our late and beloved President John Kennedy . It received the bipartisan support of more than two thirds of the Members of both the House and the Senate . An overwhelming majority of Republicans as well as Democrats voted for it . It has received the thoughtful support of tens of thousands of civic and religious leaders in all parts of this Nation . And it is supported by the great majority of the American people . The purpose of the law is simple . It does not restrict the freedom of any American , so long as he respects the rights of others . It does not give special treatment to any citizen . It does say the only limit to a man s hope for happiness , and for the future of his children , shall be his own ability . It does say that there are those who are equal before God shall now also be equal in the polling booths , in the classrooms , in the factories , and in hotels , restaurants , movie theaters , and other places that provide service to the public . I am taking steps to implement the law under my constitutional obligation to take care that the laws are faithfully executed . First , I will send to the Senate my nomination of LeRoy Collins to be Director of the Community Relations Service . Governor Collins will bring the experience of a long career of distinguished public service to the task of helping communities solve problems of human relations through reason and commonsense . Second , I shall appoint an advisory committee of distinguished Americans to assist Governor Collins in his assignment . Third , I am sending Congress a request for supplemental appropriations to pay for necessary costs of implementing the law , and asking for immediate action . Fourth , already today in a meeting of my Cabinet this afternoon I directed the agencies of this Government to fully discharge the new responsibilities imposed upon them by the law and to do it without delay , and to keep me personally informed of their progress . Fifth , I am asking appropriate officials to meet with representative groups to promote greater understanding of the law and to achieve a spirit of compliance . We must not approach the observance and enforcement of this law in a vengeful spirit . Its purpose is not to punish . Its purpose is not to divide , but to end divisions divisions which have all lasted too long . Its purpose is national , not regional . Its purpose is to promote a more abiding commitment to freedom , a more constant pursuit of justice , and a deeper respect for human dignity . We will achieve these goals because most Americans are law abiding citizens who want to do what is right . This is why the Civil Rights Act relies first on voluntary compliance , then on the efforts of local communities and States to secure the rights of citizens . It provides for the national authority to step in only when others cannot or will not do the job . This Civil Rights Act is a challenge to all of us to go to work in our communities and our States , in our homes and in our hearts , to eliminate the last vestiges of injustice in our beloved country . So tonight I urge every public official , every religious leader , every business and professional man , every workingman , every housewife I urge every American to join in this effort to bring justice and hope to all our people and to bring peace to our land . My fellow citizens , we have come now to a time of testing . We must not fail . Let us close the springs of racial poison . Let us pray for wise and understanding hearts . Let us lay aside irrelevant differences and make our Nation whole . Let us hasten that day when our unmeasured strength and our unbounded spirit will be free to do the great works ordained for this Nation by the just and wise God who is the Father of us all . Thank you and good night .<speech_sep>Speaker , President , members of the House and Senate , my fellow Americans I will be brief , for our time is necessarily short and our agenda is already long . Last year s congressional session was the longest in peacetime history . With that foundation , let us work together to make this year s session the best in the nation s history . Let this session of Congress be known as the session which did more for civil rights than the last hundred sessions combined as the session which enacted the most far reaching tax cut of our time as the session which declared all out war on human poverty and unemployment in these United States as the session which finally recognized the health needs of all our older citizens as the session which reformed our tangled transportation and transit policies as the session which achieved the most effective , efficient foreign aid program ever and as the session which helped to build more homes , more schools , more libraries , and more hospitals than any single session of Congress in the history of our Republic . All this and more can and must be done . It can be done by this summer , and it can be done without any increase in spending . In fact , under the budget that I shall shortly submit , it can be done with an actual reduction in federal expenditures and federal employment . We have in 1964 a unique opportunity and obligation to prove the success of our system to disprove those cynics and critics at home and abroad who question our purpose and our competence . If we fail , if we fritter and fumble away our opportunity in needless , senseless quarrels between Democrats and Republicans , or between the House and the Senate , or between the South and North , or between the Congress and the administration , then history will rightfully judge us harshly . But if we succeed , if we can achieve these goals by forging in this country a greater sense of union , then , and only then , can we take full satisfaction in the state of the Union . Here in the Congress you can demonstrate effective legislative leadership by discharging the public business with clarity and dispatch , voting each important proposal up , or voting it down , but at least bringing it to a fair and a final vote . Let us carry forward the plans and programs of John Fitzgerald Kennedy not because of our sorrow or sympathy , but because they are right . In his memory today , I especially ask all members of my own political faith , in this election year , to put your country ahead of your party , and to always debate principles never debate personalities . For my part , I pledge a progressive administration which is efficient , and honest and frugal . The budget to be submitted to the Congress shortly is in full accord with this pledge . It will cut our deficit in half from 10 billion to 4 , 900 million . It will be , in proportion to our national output , the smallest budget since 1951 . It will call for a substantial reduction in federal employment , a feat accomplished only once before in the last 10 years . While maintaining the full strength of our combat defenses , it will call for the lowest number of civilian personnel in the Department of Defense since 1950 . It will call for total expenditures of 97 , 900 million compared to 98 , 400 million for the current year , a reduction of more than 500 million . It will call for new obligational authority of 103 , 800 million a reduction of more than 4 billion below last year s request of 107 , 900 million . But it is not a standstill budget , for America cannot afford to stand still . Our population is growing . Our economy is more complex . Our people s needs are expanding . But by closing down obsolete installations , by curtailing less urgent programs , by cutting back where cutting back seems to be wise , by insisting on a dollar s worth for a dollar spent , I am able to recommend in this reduced budget the most federal support in history for education , for health , for retraining the unemployed , and for helping the economically and the physically handicapped . This budget , and this year s legislative program , are designed to help each and every American citizen fulfill his basic hopes his hopes for a fair chance to make good his hopes for fair play from the law his hopes for a full time job on full time pay his hopes for a decent home for his family in a decent community his hopes for a good school for his children with good teachers and his hopes for security when faced with sickness or unemployment or old age . Unfortunately , many Americans live on the outskirts of hope some because of their poverty , and some because of theft color , and all too many because of both . Our task is to help replace their despair with opportunity . This administration today , here and now , declares unconditional war on poverty in America . I urge this Congress and all Americans to join with me in that effort . It will not be a short or easy struggle , no single weapon or strategy will suffice , but we shall not rest until that war is won . The richest nation on earth can afford to win it . We cannot afford to lose it . One thousand dollars invested in salvaging an unemployable youth today can return 40 , 000 or more in his lifetime . Poverty is a national problem , requiring improved national organization and support . But this attack , to be effective , must also be organized at the state and the local level and must be supported and directed by state and local efforts . For the war against poverty will not be won here in Washington . It must be won in the field , in every private home , in every public office , from the courthouse to the White House . The program I shall propose will emphasize this cooperative approach to help that one fifth of all American families with incomes too small to even meet their basic needs . Our chief weapons in a more pinpointed attack will be better schools , and better health , and better homes , and better training , and better job opportunities to help more Americans , especially young Americans , escape from squalor and misery and unemployment rolls where other citizens help to carry them . Very often a lack of jobs and money is not the cause of poverty , but the symptom . The cause may lie deeper in our failure to give our fellow citizens a fair chance to develop their own capacities , in a lack of education and training , in a lack of medical care and housing , in a lack of decent communities in which to live and bring up their children . But whatever the cause , our joint federal local effort must pursue poverty , pursue it wherever it exists in city slums and small towns , in sharecropper shacks or in migrant worker camps , on Indian Reservations , among whites as well as Negroes , among the young as well as the aged , in the boom towns and in the depressed areas . Our aim is not only to relieve the symptom of poverty , but to cure it and , above all , to prevent it . No single piece of legislation , however , is going to suffice . We will launch a special effort in the chronically distressed areas of Appalachia . We must expand our small but our successful area redevelopment program . We must enact youth employment legislation to put jobless , aimless , hopeless youngsters to work on useful projects . We must distribute more food to the needy through a broader food stamp program . We must create a National Service Corps to help the economically handicapped of our own country as the Peace Corps now helps those abroad . We must modernize our unemployment insurance and establish a high level commission on automation . If we have the brain power to invent these machines , we have the brain power to make certain that they are a boon and not a bane to humanity . We must extend the coverage of our minimum wage laws to more than two million workers now lacking this basic protection of purchasing power . We must , by including special school aid funds as part of our education program , improve the quality of teaching , training , and counseling in our hardest hit areas . We must build more libraries in every area and more hospitals and nursing homes under the Hill Burton Act , and train more nurses to staff them . We must provide hospital insurance for our older citizens financed by every worker and his employer under Social Security , contributing no more than 1 a month during the employee s working career to protect him in his old age in a dignified manner without cost to the Treasury , against the devastating hardship of prolonged or repeated illness . We must , as a part of a revised housing and urban renewal program , give more help to those displaced by slum clearance , provide more housing for our poor and our elderly , and seek as our ultimate goal in our free enterprise system a decent home for every American family . We must help obtain more modern mass transit within our communities as well as low cost transportation between them . Above all , we must release 11 billion of tax reduction into the private spending stream to create new jobs and new markets in every area of this land . These programs are obviously not for the poor or the underprivileged alone . Every American will benefit by the extension of social security to cover the hospital costs of their aged parents . Every American community will benefit from the construction or modernization of schools , libraries , hospitals , and nursing homes , from the training of more nurses and from the improvement of urban renewal in public transit . And every individual American taxpayer and every corporate taxpayer will benefit from the earliest possible passage of the pending tax bill from both the new investment it will bring and the new jobs that it will create . That tax bill has been thoroughly discussed for a year . Now we need action . The new budget clearly allows it . Our taxpayers surely deserve it . Our economy strongly demands it . And every month of delay dilutes its benefits in 1964 for consumption , for investment , and for employment . For until the bill is signed , its investment incentives cannot be deemed certain , and the withholding rate cannot be reduced and the most damaging and devastating thing you can do to any businessman in America is to keep him in doubt and to keep him guessing on what our tax policy is . And I say that we should now reduce to 14 percent instead of 15 percent our withholding rate . I therefore urge the Congress to take final action on this bill by the first of February , if at all possible . For however proud we may be of the unprecedented progress of our free enterprise economy over the last three years , we should not and we cannot permit it to pause . In 1963 , for the first time in history , we crossed the 70 million job mark , but we will soon need more than 75 million jobs . In 1963 our gross national product reached the 600 billion level 100 billion higher than when we took office . But it easily could and it should be still 30 billion higher today than it is . Wages and profits and family income are also at their highest levels in history but I would remind you that four million workers and 13 percent of our industrial capacity are still idle today . We need a tax cut now to keep this country moving . For our goal is not merely to spread the work . Our goal is to create more jobs . I believe the enactment of a 35 hour week would sharply increase costs , would invite inflation , would impair our ability to compete , and merely share instead of creating employment . But I am equally opposed to the 45 or 50 hour week in those industries where consistently excessive use of overtime causes increased unemployment . So , therefore , I recommend legislation authorizing the creation of a tripartite industry committee to determine on an industry by industry basis as to where a higher penalty rate for overtime would increase job openings without unduly increasing costs , and authorizing the establishment of such higher rates . Let me make one principle of this administration abundantly clear All of these increased opportunities in employment , in education , in housing , and in every field must be open to Americans of every color . As far as the writ of federal law will run , we must abolish not some , but all racial discrimination . For this is not merely an economic issue , or a social , political , or international issue . It is a moral issue , and it must be met by the passage this session of the bill now pending in the House . All members of the public should have equal access to facilities open to the public . All members of the public should be equally eligible for federal benefits that are financed by the public . All members of the public should have an equal chance to vote for public officials and to send their children to good public schools and to contribute their talents to the public good . Today , Americans of all races stand side by side in Berlin and in Vietnam . They died side by side in Korea . Surely they can work and eat and travel side by side in their own country . We must also lift by legislation the bars of discrimination against those who seek entry into our country , particularly those who have much needed skills and those joining their families . In establishing preferences , a nation that was built by the immigrants of all lands can ask those who now seek admission What can you do for our country But we should not be asking In what country were you born For our ultimate goal is a world without war , a world made safe for diversity , in which all men , goods , and ideas can freely move across every border and every boundary . We must advance toward this goal in 1964 in at least 10 different ways , not as partisans , but as patriots . First , we must maintain and our reduced defense budget will maintain that margin of military safety and superiority obtained through three years of steadily increasing both the quality and the quantity of our strategic , our conventional , and our antiguerilla forces . In 1964 we will be better prepared than ever before to defend the cause of freedom , whether it is threatened by outright aggression or by the infiltration practiced by those in Hanoi and Havana , who ship arms and men across international borders to foment insurrection . And we must continue to use that strength as John Kennedy used it in the Cuban crisis and for the test ban treaty to demonstrate both the futility of nuclear war and the possibilities of lasting peace . Second , we must take new steps and we shall make new proposals at Geneva toward the control and the eventual abolition of arms . Even in the absence of agreement , we must not stockpile arms beyond our needs or seek an excess of military power that could be provocative as well as wasteful . It is in this spirit that in this fiscal year we are cutting back our production of enriched uranium by 25 percent . We are shutting down four plutonium piles . We are closing many nonessential military installations . And it is in this spirit that we today call on our adversaries to do the same . Third , we must make increased use of our food as an instrument of peace making it available by sale or trade or loan or donation to hungry people in all nations which tell us of their needs and accept proper conditions of distribution . Fourth , we must assure our pre eminence in the peaceful exploration of outer space , focusing on an expedition to the moon in this decade in cooperation with other powers if possible , alone if necessary . Fifth , we must expand world trade . Having recognized in the Act of 1962 that we must buy as well as sell , we now expect our trading partners to recognize that we must sell as well as buy . We are willing to give them competitive access to our market , asking only that they do the same for us . Sixth , we must continue , through such measures as the interest equalization tax , as well as the cooperation of other nations , our recent progress toward balancing our international accounts . This administration must and will preserve the present gold value of the dollar . Seventh , we must become better neighbors with the free states of the Americas , working with the councils of the OAwith a stronger Alliance for Progress , and with all the men and women of this hemisphere who really believe in liberty and justice for all . Eighth , we must strengthen the ability of free nations everywhere to develop their independence and raise their standard of living , and thereby frustrate those who prey on poverty and chaos . To do this , the rich must help the poor and we must do our part . We must achieve a more rigorous administration of our development assistance , with larger roles for private investors , for other industrialized nations , and for international agencies and for the recipient nations themselves . Ninth , we must strengthen our Atlantic and Pacific partnerships , maintain our alliances and make the United Nations a more effective instrument for national independence and international order . Tenth , and finally , we must develop with our allies new means of bridging the gap between the East and the West , facing danger boldly wherever danger exists , but being equally bold in our search for new agreements which can enlarge the hopes of all , while violating the interests of none . In short , I would say to the Congress that we must be constantly prepared for the worst , and constantly acting for the best . We must be strong enough to win any war , and we must be wise enough to prevent one . We shall neither act as aggressors nor tolerate acts of aggression . We intend to bury no one , and we do not intend to be buried . We can fight , if we must , as we have fought before , but we pray that we will never have to fight again . My good friends and my fellow Americans In these last seven sorrowful weeks , we have learned anew that nothing is so enduring as faith , and nothing is so degrading as hate . John Kennedy was a victim of hate , but he was also a great builder of faith faith in our fellow Americans , whatever their creed or their color or their station in life faith in the future of man , whatever his divisions and differences . This faith was echoed in all parts of the world . On every continent and in every land to which Johnson and I traveled , we found faith and hope and love toward this land of America and toward our people . So I ask you now in the Congress and in the country to join with me in expressing and fulfilling that faith in working for a nation , a nation that is free from want and a world that is free from hate a world of peace and justice , and freedom and abundance , for our time and for all time to come .<speech_sep>Speaker , Vice President , distinguished Members of the Congress I share with all of you the grief that you feel at the death today of one of the most beloved , respected , and effective Members of this body , the distinguished Representative from Rhode Island , Fogarty . I have come here tonight to report to you that this is a time of testing for our Nation . At home , the question is whether we will continue working for better opportunities for all Americans , when most Americans are already living better than any people in history . Abroad , the question is whether we have the staying power to fight a very costly war , when the objective is limited and the danger to us is seemingly remote . So our test is not whether we shrink from our country s cause when the dangers to us are obvious and dose at hand , but , rather , whether we carry on when they seem obscure and distant and some think that it is safe to lay down our burdens . I have come tonight m ask this Congress and this Nation to resolve that issue to meet our commitments at home and abroad to continue to build a better America and to reaffirm this Nation s allegiance to freedom . As President Abraham Lincoln said , We must ask where we are , and whither we are tending . The last 3 years bear witness to our determination to make this a better country . We have struck down legal barriers to equality . We have improved the education of 7 million deprived children and this year alone we have enabled almost 1 million students to go to college . We have brought medical care to older people who were unable to afford it . Three and one half million Americans have already received treatment under Medicare since July . We have built a strong economy that has put almost 3 million more Americans on the payrolls in the last year alone . We have included more than 9 million new workers under a higher minimum wage . We have launched new training programs to provide job skills for almost 1 million Americans . We have helped more than a thousand local communities to attack poverty in the neighborhoods of the poor . We have set out to rebuild our cities on a scale that has never been attempted before . We have begun to rescue our waters from the menace of pollution and to restore the beauty of our land and our countryside , our cities and our towns . We have given 1 million young Americans a chance to earn through the Neighborhood Youth Corps or through Head Start , a chance to learn . So together we have tried to meet the needs of our people . And , we have succeeded in creating a better life for the many as well as the few . Now we must answer whether our gains shall be the foundations of further progress , or whether they shall be only monuments to what might have been abandoned now by a people who lacked the will to see their great work through . I believe that our people do not want to quit though the task is great , the work hard , often frustrating , and success is a matter not of days or months , but of years and sometimes it may be even decades . I have come here tonight to discuss with you five ways of carrying forward the progress of these last 3 years . These five ways concern programs , partnerships , priorities , prosperity , and peace . First , programs . We must see to it , I think , that these new programs that we have passed work effectively and are administered in the best possible way . Three years ago we set out to create these new instruments of social progress . This required trial and error and it has produced both . But as we learn , through success and failure , we are changing our strategy and we are trying to improve our tactics . In the long run , these starts some rewarding , others inadequate and disappointing are crucial to SUCCESOne example is the struggle to make life better for the less fortunate among us . On a similar occasion , at this rostrum in 1949 , I heard a great American President , Harry Truman , declare this The American people have decided that poverty is just as wasteful and just as unnecessary as preventable disease . Many listened to President Truman that day here in this Chamber , but few understood what was required and did anything about it . The executive branch and the Congress waited 15 long years before ever taking any action on that challenge , as it did on many other challenges that great President presented . And when , 3 years ago , you here in the Congress joined with me in a declaration of war on poverty , then I warned , It will not be a short or easy struggle no single weapon . . . will suffice but we shall not rest until that war is won . And I have come here to renew that pledge tonight . I recommend that we intensify our efforts to give the poor a chance to enjoy and to join in this Nation s progress . I shall propose certain administrative changes suggested by the Congress as well as some that we have learned from our own trial and error . I shall urge special methods and special funds to reach the hundreds of thousands of Americans that are now trapped in the ghettos of our big cities and , through Head Start , to try to reach out to our very young , little children . The chance to learn is their brightest hope and must command our full determination . For learning brings skills and skills bring jobs and jobs bring responsibility and dignity , as well as taxes . This war like the war in Vietnam is not a simple one . There is no single battleline which you can plot each day on a chart . The enemy is not easy to perceive , or to isolate , or to destroy . There are mistakes and there are setbacks . But we are moving , and our direction is forward . This is true with other programs that are making and breaking new ground . Some do not yet have the capacity to absorb well or wisely all the money that could be put into them . Administrative skills and trained manpower are just as vital to their success as dollars . And I believe those skills will come . But it will take time and patience and hard work . Success cannot be forced at a single stroke . So we must continue to strengthen the administration of every program if that success is to come as we know it must . We have done much in the space of two short years , working together . I have recommended , and you , the Congress , have approved , 10 different reorganization plans , combining and consolidating many bureaus of this Government , and creating two entirely new Cabinet departments . I have come tonight to propose that we establish a new department a Department of Business and Labor . By combining the Department of Commerce with the Department of Labor and other related agencies , I think we can create a more economical , efficient , and streamlined instrument that will better serve a growing nation . This is our goal throughout the entire Federal Government . Every program will be thoroughly evaluated . Grant in aid programs will be improved and simplified as desired by many of our local administrators and our Governors . Where there have been mistakes , we will try very hard to correct them . Where there has been progress , we will try to build upon it . Our second objective is partnership to create an effective partnership at all levels of government . And I should treasure nothing more than to have that partnership begin between the executive and the Congress . The 88th and the 89th Congresses passed more social and economic legislation than any two single Congresses in American history . Most of you who were Members of those Congresses voted to pass most of those measures . But your efforts will come to nothing unless it reaches the people . Federal energy is essential . But it is not enough . Only a total working partnership among Federal , State , and local governments can succeed . The test of that partnership will be the concern of each public organization , each private institution , and each responsible citizen . Each State , county , and city needs to examine its capacity for government in today s world , as we are examining ours in the executive department , and as I see you are examining yours . Some will need to reorganize and reshape their methods of administration as we are doing . Others will need to revise their constitutions and their laws to bring them up to date as we are doing . Above all , I think we must work together and find ways in which the multitudes of small jurisdictions can be brought together more efficiently . During the past 3 years we have returned to State and local governments about 40 billion in grants in aid . This year alone , 70 percent of our Federal expenditures for domestic programs will be distributed through the State and local governments . With Federal assistance , State and local governments by 1970 will be spending close to 110 billion annually . These enormous sums must be used wisely , honestly , and effectively . We intend to work closely with the States and the localities to do exactly that . Our third objective is priorities , to move ahead on the priorities that we have established within the resources that are available . I wish , of course , that we could do all that should be done and that we could do it now . But the Nation has many commitments and responsibilities which make heavy demands upon our total resources . No administration would more eagerly utilize for these programs all the resources they require than the administration that started them . So let us resolve , now , to do all that we can , with what we have knowing that it is far , far more than we have ever done before , and far , far less than our problems will ultimately require . Let us create new opportunities for our children and our young Americans who need special help . We should strengthen the Head Start program , begin it for children 3 years old , and maintain its educational momentum by following through in the early years . We should try new methods of child development and care from the earliest years , before it is too late to correct . And I will propose these measures to the 90th Congress . Let us insure that older Americans , and neglected Americans , share in their Nation s progress . We should raise social security payments by an overall average of 20 percent . That will add 4 billion 100 million to social security payments in the first year . I will recommend that each of the 23 million Americans now receiving payments get an increase of at least 15 percent . I will ask that you raise the minimum payments by 59 percent from 44 to 70 a month , and to guarantee a minimum benefit of 100 a month for those with a total of 25 years of coverage . We must raise the limits that retired workers can earn without losing social security income . We must eliminate by law unjust discrimination in employment because of age . We should embark upon a major effort to provide self help assistance to the forgotten in our midst the American Indians and the migratory farm workers . And we should reach with the hand of understanding to help those who live in rural poverty . And I will propose these measures to the 90th Congress . So let us keep on improving the quality of life and enlarging the meaning of justice for all of our fellow Americans . We should transform our decaying slums into places of decency through the landmark Model Cities program . I intend to seek for this effort , this year , the full amount that you in Congress authorized last year . We should call upon the genius of private industry and the most advanced technology to help rebuild our great cities . We should vastly expand the fight for dean air with a total attack on pollution at its sources , and because air , like water , does not respect manmade boundaries we should set up regional airsheds throughout this great land . We should continue to carry to every corner of the Nation our campaign for a beautiful America to dean up our towns , to make them more beautiful , our cities , our countryside , by creating more parks , and more seashores , and more open spaces for our children to play in , and for the generations that come after us to enjoy . We should continue to seek equality and justice for each citizen before a jury , in seeking a job , in exercising his civil rights . We should find a solution to fair housing , so that every American , regardless of color , has a decent home of his choice . We should modernize our Selective Service System . The National Commission on Selective Service will shortly submit its report . I will send you new recommendations to meet our military manpower needs . But let us resolve that this is to be the Congress that made our draft laws as fair and as effective as possible . We should protect what Justice Brandeis called the right most valued by civilized men the right to privacy . We should outlaw all wiretapping public and private wherever and whenever it occurs , except when the security of this Nation itself is at stake and only then with the strictest governmental safeguards . And we should exercise the full reach of our constitutional powers to outlaw electronic bugging and snooping . I hope this Congress will try to help me do more for the consumer . We should demand that the cost of credit be clearly and honestly expressed where average citizens can understand it . We should immediately take steps to prevent massive power failures , to safeguard the home against hazardous household products , and to assure safety in the pipelines that carry natural gas across our Nation . We should extend Medicare benefits that are now denied to 1 , 300 , 000 permanently and totally disabled Americans under 65 years of age . We should improve the process of democracy by passing our election reform and financing proposals , by tightening our laws regulating lobbying , and by restoring a reasonable franchise to Americans who move their residences . We should develop educational television into a vital public resource to enrich our homes , educate our families , and to provide assistance in our classrooms . We should insist that the public interest be fully served through the public s airwaves . And I will propose these measures to the 90th Congress . Now we come to a question that weighs very heavily on all our minds on yours and mine . This Nation must make an all out effort to combat crime . The 89th Congress gave us a new start in the attack on crime by passing the Law Enforcement Assistance Act that I recommended . We appointed the National Crime Commission to study crime in America and to recommend the best ways to carry that attack forward . And while we do not have all the answers , on the basis of its preliminary recommendations we are ready to move . This is not a war that Washington alone can win . The idea of a national police force is repugnant to the American people . Crime must be rooted out in local communities by local authorities . Our policemen must be better trained , must be better paid , and must be better supported by the local citizens that they try to serve and to protect . The National Government can and expects to help . And so I will recommend to the 90th Congress the Safe Streets and Crime Control Act of 1967 . It will enable us to assist those States and cities that try to make their streets and homes safer , their police forces better , their corrections systems more effective , and their courts more efficient . When the Congress approves , the Federal Government will be able to provide a substantial percentage of the cost 90 percent of the cost of developing the State and local plans , master plans , to combat crime in their area 60 percent of the cost of training new tactical units , developing instant communications and special alarm systems , and introducing the latest equipment and techniques so that they can become weapons in the war on crime 50 percent of the cost of building crime laboratories and police academy type centers so that our citizens can be protected by the best trained and served by the best equipped police to be found anywhere . We will also recommend new methods to prevent juvenile delinquents from becoming adult delinquents . We will seek new partnerships with States and cities in order to deal with this hideous narcotics problem . And we will recommend strict controls on the sale of firearms . At the heart of this attack on crime must be the conviction that a free America as Abraham Lincoln once said must let reverence for the laws . . . become the political religion of the Nation . Our country s laws must be respected . Order must be maintained . And I will support with all the constitutional powers the President possesses our Nation s law enforcement officials in their attempt to control the crime and the violence that tear the fabric of our communities . Many of these priority proposals will be built on foundations that have already been laid . Some will necessarily be small at first , but every beginning is a consequence . If we postpone this urgent work now , it will simply have to be done later , and later we will pay a much higher price . Our fourth objective is prosperity , to keep our economy moving ahead , moving ahead steadily and safely . We have now enjoyed 6 years of unprecedented and rewarding prosperity . Last year , in 1966 Wages were the highest in history and the unemployment rate , announced yesterday , reached the lowest point in 13 years Total after tax income of American families rose nearly 5 percent Corporate profits after taxes rose a little more than 5 percent Our gross national product advanced 5 . 5 percent , to about 740 billion Income per farm went up 6 percent . Now we have been greatly concerned because consumer prices rose 4 . 5 percent over the 18 months since we decided to send troops to Vietnam . This was more than we had expected and the Government tried to do everything that we knew how to do to hold it down . Yet we were not as successful as we wished to be . In the 18 months after we entered World War Iprices rose not 4 . 5 percent , but 13 . 5 percent . In the first 18 months after Korea , after the conflict broke out there , prices rose not 4 . 5 percent , but 11 percent . During those two periods we had OPA price control that the Congress gave us and War Labor Board wage controls . Since Vietnam we have not asked for those controls and we have tried to avoid imposing them . We believe that we have done better , but we make no pretense of having been successful or doing as well as we wished . Our greatest disappointment in the economy during 1966 was the excessive rise in interest rates and the tightening of credit . They imposed very severe and very unfair burdens on our home buyers and on our home builders , and all those associated with the home industry . Last January , and again last September , I recommended fiscal and moderate tax measures to try to restrain the unbalanced pace of economic expansion . Legislatively and administratively we took several billions out of the economy . With these measures , in both instances , the Congress approved most of the recommendations rather promptly . As 1966 ended , price stability was seemingly being restored . Wholesale prices are lower tonight than they were in August . So are retail food prices . Monetary conditions are also easing . Most interest rates have retreated from their earlier peaks . More money now seems to be available . Given the cooperation of the Federal Reserve System , which I so earnestly seek , I am confident that this movement can continue . I pledge the American people that I will do everything in a President s power to lower interest rates and to ease money in this country . The Federal Home Loan Bank Board tomorrow morning will announce that it will make immediately available to savings and loan associations an additional 1 billion , and will lower from 6 percent to 5 3 4 percent the interest rate charged on those loans . We shall continue on a sensible course of fiscal and budgetary policy that we believe will keep our economy growing without new inflationary spirals that will finance responsibly the needs of our men in Vietnam and the progress of our people at home that will support a significant improvement in our export surplus , and will press forward toward easier credit and toward lower interest rates . I recommend to the Congress a surcharge of 6 percent on both corporate and individual income taxes to last for 2 years or for so long as the unusual expenditures associated with our efforts in Vietnam continue . I will promptly recommend an earlier termination date if a reduction in these expenditures permits it . This surcharge will raise revenues by some 4 . 5 billion in the first year . For example , a person whose tax payment , the tax he owes , is 1 , 000 , will pay , under this proposal , an extra 60 over the 12 month period , or 5 a month . The overwhelming majority of Americans who pay taxes today are below that figure and they will pay substantially less than 5 a month . Married couples with two children , with incomes up to 5 , 000 per year , will be exempt from this tax as will single people with an income of up to 1 , 900 a year . Now if Americans today still paid the income and excise tax rates in effect when I came into the Presidency , in the year 1964 , their annual taxes would have been over 20 billion more than at present tax rates . So this proposal is that while we have this problem and this emergency in Vietnam , while we are trying to meet the needs of our people at home , your Government asks for slightly more than one fourth of that tax cut each year in order to try to hold our budget deficit in fiscal 1968 within prudent limits and to give our country and to give our fighting men the help they need in this hour of trial . For fiscal 1967 , we estimate the budget expenditures to be 126 . 7 billion and revenues of 117 billion . That will leave us a deficit this year of 9 . 7 billion . For fiscal 1968 , we estimate budget expenditures of 135 billion . And with the tax measures recommended , and a continuing strong economy , we estimate revenues will be 126 . 9 billion . The deficit then will be 8 . 1 billion . I will very soon forward all of my recommendations to the Congress . Yours is the responsibility to discuss and to debate them to approve or modify or reject them . I welcome your views , as I have welcomed working with you for 30 years as a colleague and as Vice President and President . I should like to say to the Members of the opposition whose numbers , if I am not mistaken , seem to have increased somewhat that the genius of the American political system has always been best expressed through creative debate that offers choices and reasonable alternatives . Throughout our history , great Republicans and Democrats have seemed to understand this . So let there be light and reason in our relations . That is the way to a responsible session and a responsive government . Let us be remembered as a President and a Congress who tried to improve the quality of life for every American not just the rich , not just the poor , but every man , woman , and child in this great Nation of ours . We all go to school to good schools or bad schools . We all take air into our lungs clean air or polluted air . We all drink water pure water or polluted water . We all face sickness someday , and some more often than we wish , and old age as well . We all have a stake in this Great Society in its economic growth , in reduction of civil strife a great stake in good government . We just must not arrest the pace of progress we have established in this country in these years . Our children s children will pay the price if we are not wise enough , and courageous enough , and determined enough to stand up and meet the Nation s needs as well as we can in the time allotted us . Abroad , as at home , there is also risk in change . But abroad , as at home , there is a greater risk in standing still . No part of our foreign policy is so sacred that it ever remains beyond review . We shall be flexible where conditions in the world change and where man s efforts can change them for the better . We are in the midst of a great transition a transition from narrow nationalism to international partnership from the harsh spirit of the cold war to the hopeful spirit of common humanity on a troubled and a threatened planet . In Latin America , the American chiefs of state will be meeting very shortly to give our hemispheric policies new direction . We have come a long way in this hemisphere since the inter American effort in economic and social development was launched by the conference at Bogota in 1960 under the leadership of President Eisenhower . The Alliance for Progress moved dramatically forward under President Kennedy . There is new confidence that the voice of the people is being heard that the dignity of the individual is stronger than ever in this hemisphere , and we are facing up to and meeting many of the hemispheric problems together . In this hemisphere that reform under democracy can be made to happen because it has happened . So together , I think , we must now move to strike down the barriers to full cooperation among the American nations , and to free the energies and the resources of two great continents on behalf of all of our citizens . Africa stands at an earlier stage of development than Latin America . It has yet to develop the transportation , communications , agriculture , and , above all , the trained men and women without which growth is impossible . There , too , the job will best be done if the nations and peoples of Africa cooperate on a regional basis . More and more our programs for Africa are going to be directed toward self help . The future of Africa is shadowed by unsolved racial conflicts . Our policy will continue to reflect our basic commitments as a people to support those who are prepared to work towards cooperation and harmony between races , and to help those who demand change but reject the fool s gold of violence . In the Middle East the spirit of good will toward all , unfortunately , has not yet taken hold . An already tortured peace seems to be constantly threatened . We shall try to use our influence to increase the possibilities of improved relations among the nations of that region . We are working hard at that task . In the great subcontinent of South Asia live more than a sixth of the earth s population . Over the years we and others have invested very heavily in capital and food for the economic development of India and Pakistan . We are not prepared to see our assistance wasted , however , in conflict . It must strengthen their capacity to help themselves . It must help these two nations both our friends to overcome poverty , to emerge as self reliant leaders , and find terms for reconciliation and cooperation . In Western Europe we shall maintain in NATO an integrated common defense . But we also look forward to the time when greater security can be achieved through measures of arms control and disarmament , and through other forms of practical agreement . We are shaping a new future of enlarged partnership in nuclear affairs , in economic and technical cooperation , in trade negotiations , in political consultation , and in working together with the governments and peoples of Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union . The emerging spirit of confidence is precisely what we hoped to achieve when we went to work a generation ago to put our shoulder to the wheel and try to help rebuild Europe . We faced new challenges and opportunities then and there and we faced also some dangers . But I believe that the peoples on both sides of the Atlantic , as well as both sides of this Chamber , wanted to face them together . Our relations with the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe are also in transition . We have avoided both the acts and the rhetoric of the cold war . When we have differed with the Soviet Union , or other nations , for that matter , I have tried to differ quietly and with courtesy , and without venom . Our objective is not to continue the cold war , but to end it . We have reached an agreement at the United Nations on the peaceful uses of outer space . We have agreed to open direct air flights with the Soviet Union . We have removed more than 400 nonstrategic items from export control . We are determined that the Export Import Bank can allow commercial credits to Poland , Hungary , Bulgaria , and Czechoslovakia , as well as to Romania and Yugoslavia . We have entered into a cultural agreement with the Soviet Union for another 2 years . We have agreed with Bulgaria and Hungary to upgrade our legations to embassies . We have started discussions with international agencies on ways of increasing contacts with Eastern European countries . This administration has taken these steps even as duty compelled us to fulfill and execute alliances and treaty obligations throughout the world that were entered into before I became President . So tonight I now ask and urge this Congress to help our foreign and our commercial trade policies by passing an East West trade bill and by approving our consular convention with the Soviet Union . The Soviet Union has in the past year increased its long range missile capabilities . It has begun to place near Moscow a limited antimissile defense . My first responsibility to our people is to assure that no nation can ever find it rational to launch a nuclear attack or to use its nuclear power as a credible threat against us or against our allies . I would emphasize that that is why an important link between Russia and the United States is in our common interest , in arms control and in disarmament . We have the solemn duty to slow down the arms race between us , if that is at all possible , in both conventional and nuclear weapons and defenses . I thought we were making some progress in that direction the first few months I was in office . I realize that any additional race would impose on our peoples , and on all mankind , for that matter , an additional waste of resources with no gain in security to either side . I expect in the days ahead to closely consult and seek the advice of the Congress about the possibilities of international agreements bearing directly upon this problem . Next to the pursuit of peace , the really greatest challenge to the human family is the race between food supply and population increase . That race tonight is being lost . The time for rhetoric has clearly passed . The time for concerted action is here and we must get on with the job . We believe that three principles must prevail if our policy is to succeed First , the developing nations must give highest priority to food production , including the use of technology and the capital of private enterprise . Second , nations with food deficits must put more of their resources into voluntary family planning programs . And third , the developed nations must all assist other nations to avoid starvation in the short run and to move rapidly towards the ability to feed themselves . Every member of the world community now bears a direct responsibility to help bring our most basic human account into balance . I come now finally to Southeast Asia and to Vietnam in particular . Soon I will submit to the Congress a detailed report on that situation . Tonight I want to just review the essential points as briefly as I can . We are in Vietnam because the United States of America and our allies are committed by the SEATO Treaty to act to meet the common danger of aggression in Southeast Asia . We are in Vietnam because an international agreement signed by the United States , North Vietnam , and others in 1962 is being systematically violated by the Communists . That violation threatens the independence of all the small nations in Southeast Asia , and threatens the peace of the entire region and perhaps the world . We are there because the people of South Vietnam have as much right to remain non Communist if that is what they choose as North Vietnam has to remain Communist . We are there because the Congress has pledged by solemn vote to take all necessary measures to prevent further aggression . No better words could describe our present course than those once spoken by the great Thomas Jefferson It is the melancholy law of human societies to be compelled sometimes to choose a great evil in order to ward off a greater . We have chosen to fight a limited war in Vietnam in an attempt to prevent a larger war a war almost certain to follow , I believe , if the Communists succeed in overrunning and taking over South Vietnam by aggression and by force . I believe , and I am supported by some authority , that if they are not checked now the world can expect to pay a greater price to check them later . That is what our statesmen said when they debated this treaty , and that is why it was ratified 82 to 1 by the Senate many years ago . You will remember that we stood in Western Europe 20 years ago . Is there anyone in this Chamber tonight who doubts that the course of freedom was not changed for the better because of the courage of that stand Sixteen years ago we and others stopped another kind of aggression this time it was in Korea . Imagine how different Asia might be today if we had failed to act when the Communist army of North Korea marched south . The Asia of tomorrow will be far different because we have said in Vietnam , as we said 16 years ago in Korea This far and no further . I think I reveal no secret when I tell you that we are dealing with a stubborn adversary who is committed to the use of force and terror to settle political questions . I wish I could report to you that the conflict is almost over . This I cannot do . We face more cost , more loss , and more agony . For the end is not yet . I cannot promise you that it will come this year or come next year . Our adversary still believes , I think , tonight , that he can go on fighting longer than we can , and longer than we and our allies will be prepared to stand up and resist . Our men in that area there are nearly 500 , 000 now have borne well the burden and the heat of the day . Their efforts have deprived the Communist enemy of the victory that he sought and that he expected a year ago . We have steadily frustrated his main forces . General Westmoreland reports that the enemy can no longer succeed on the battlefield . So I must say to you that our pressure must be sustained and will be sustained until he realizes that the war he started is costing him more than he can ever gain . I know of no strategy more likely to attain that end than the strategy of accumulating slowly , but inexorably , every kind of material resource of laboriously teaching troops the very elements of their trade . That , and patience and I mean a great deal of patience . Our South Vietnamese allies are also being tested tonight . Because they must provide real security to the people living in the countryside . And this means reducing the terrorism and the armed attacks which kidnaped and killed 26 , 900 civilians in the last 32 months , to levels where they can be successfully controlled by the regular South Vietnamese security forces . It means bringing to the villagers an effective civilian government that they can respect , and that they can rely upon and that they can participate in , and that they can have a personal stake in . We hope that government is now beginning to emerge . While I cannot report the desired progress in the pacification effort , the very distinguished and able Ambassador , Henry Cabot Lodge , reports that South Vietnam is turning to this task with a new sense of urgency . We can help , but only they can win this part of the war . Their task is to build and protect a new life in each rural province . One result of our stand in Vietnam is already clear . It is this The peoples of Asia now know that the door to independence is not going to be slammed shut . They know that it is possible for them to choose their own national destinies without coercion . The performance of our men in Vietnam backed by the American people has created a feeling of confidence and unity among the independent nations of Asia and the Pacific . I saw it in their faces in the 19 days that I spent in their homes and in their countries . Fear of external Communist conquest in many Asian nations is already subsiding and with this , the spirit of hope is rising . For the first time in history , a common outlook and common institutions are already emerging . This forward movement is rooted in the ambitions and the interests of Asian nations themselves . It was precisely this movement that we hoped to accelerate when I spoke at Johns Hopkins in Baltimore in April 1965 , and I pledged a much more massive effort to improve the life of man in that part of the world , in the hope that we could take some of the funds that we were spending on bullets and bombs and spend it on schools and production . Twenty months later our efforts have produced a new reality The doors of the billion dollar Asian Development Bank that I recommended to the Congress , and you endorsed almost unanimously , I am proud to tell you are already open . Asians are engaged tonight in regional efforts in a dozen new directions . Their hopes are high . Their faith is strong . Their confidence is deep . And even as the war continues , we shall play our part in carrying forward this constructive historic development . As recommended by the Eugene Black mission , and if other nations will join us , I will seek a special authorization from the Congress of 200 million for East Asian regional programs . We are eager to turn our resources to peace . Our efforts in behalf of humanity I think need not be restricted by any parallel or by any boundary line . The moment that peace comes , as I pledged in Baltimore , I will ask the Congress for funds to join in an international program of reconstruction and development for all the people of Vietnam and their deserving neighbors who wish our help . We shall continue to hope for a reconciliation between the people of Mainland China and the world community including working together in all the tasks of arms control , security , and progress on which the fate of the Chinese people , like their fellow men elsewhere , depends . We would be the first to welcome a China which decided to respect her neighbors rights . We would be the first to applaud her were she to apply her great energies and intelligence to improving the welfare of her people . And we have no intention of trying to deny her legitimate needs for security and friendly relations with her neighboring countries . Our hope that all of this will someday happen rests on the conviction that we , the American people and our allies , will and are going to see Vietnam through to an honorable peace . We will support all appropriate initiatives by the United Nations , and others , which can bring the several parties together for unconditional discussions of peace anywhere , any time . And we will continue to take every possible initiative ourselves to constantly probe for peace . Until such efforts succeed , or until the infiltration ceases , or until the conflict subsides , I think the course of wisdom for this country is that we just must firmly pursue our present course . We will stand firm in Vietnam . I think you know that our fighting men there tonight bear the heaviest burden of all . With their lives they serve their Nation . We must give them nothing less than our full support and we have given them that nothing less than the determination that Americans have always given their fighting men . Whatever our sacrifice here , even if it is more than 5 a month , it is small compared to their own . How long it will take I cannot prophesy . I only know that the will of the American people , I think , is tonight being tested . Whether we can fight a war of limited objectives over a period of time , and keep alive the hope of independence and stability for people other than ourselves whether we can continue to act with restraint when the temptation to get it over with is inviting but dangerous whether we can accept the necessity of choosing a great evil in order to ward off a greater whether we can do these without arousing the hatreds and the passions that are ordinarily loosed in time of war on all these questions so much turns . The answers will determine not only where we are , but whither we are tending . A time of testing yes . And a time of transition . The transition is sometimes slow sometimes unpopular almost always very painful and often quite dangerous . But we have lived with danger for a long time before , and we shall live with it for a long time yet to come . We know that man is born unto trouble . We also know that this Nation was not forged and did not survive and grow and prosper without a great deal of sacrifice from a great many men . For all the disorders that we must deal with , and all the frustrations that concern us , and all the anxieties that we are called upon to resolve , for all the issues we must face with the agony that attends them , let us remember that those who expect to reap the blessings of freedom must , like men , undergo the fatigues of supporting it . But let us also count not only our burdens but our blessings for they are many . And let us give thanks to the One who governs us all . Let us draw encouragement from the signs of hope for they , too , are many . Let us remember that we have been tested before and America has never been found wanting . So with your understanding , I would hope your confidence , and your support , we are going to persist and we are going to succeed . Speaker , Vice President , distinguished Members of the Congress I share with all of you the grief that you feel at the death today of one of the most beloved , respected , and effective Members of this body , the distinguished Representative from Rhode Island , Fogarty . I have come here tonight to report to you that this is a time of testing for our Nation . At home , the question is whether we will continue working for better opportunities for all Americans , when most Americans are already living better than any people in history . Abroad , the question is whether we have the staying power to fight a very costly war , when the objective is limited and the danger to us is seemingly remote . So our test is not whether we shrink from our country s cause when the dangers to us are obvious and dose at hand , but , rather , whether we carry on when they seem obscure and distant and some think that it is safe to lay down our burdens . I have come tonight m ask this Congress and this Nation to resolve that issue to meet our commitments at home and abroad to continue to build a better America and to reaffirm this Nation s allegiance to freedom . As President Abraham Lincoln said , We must ask where we are , and whither we are tending . The last 3 years bear witness to our determination to make this a better country . We have struck down legal barriers to equality . We have improved the education of 7 million deprived children and this year alone we have enabled almost 1 million students to go to college . We have brought medical care to older people who were unable to afford it . Three and one half million Americans have already received treatment under Medicare since July . We have built a strong economy that has put almost 3 million more Americans on the payrolls in the last year alone . We have included more than 9 million new workers under a higher minimum wage . We have launched new training programs to provide job skills for almost 1 million Americans . We have helped more than a thousand local communities to attack poverty in the neighborhoods of the poor . We have set out to rebuild our cities on a scale that has never been attempted before . We have begun to rescue our waters from the menace of pollution and to restore the beauty of our land and our countryside , our cities and our towns . We have given 1 million young Americans a chance to earn through the Neighborhood Youth Corps or through Head Start , a chance to learn . So together we have tried to meet the needs of our people . And , we have succeeded in creating a better life for the many as well as the few . Now we must answer whether our gains shall be the foundations of further progress , or whether they shall be only monuments to what might have been abandoned now by a people who lacked the will to see their great work through . I believe that our people do not want to quit though the task is great , the work hard , often frustrating , and success is a matter not of days or months , but of years and sometimes it may be even decades . I have come here tonight to discuss with you five ways of carrying forward the progress of these last 3 years . These five ways concern programs , partnerships , priorities , prosperity , and peace . First , programs . We must see to it , I think , that these new programs that we have passed work effectively and are administered in the best possible way . Three years ago we set out to create these new instruments of social progress . This required trial and error and it has produced both . But as we learn , through success and failure , we are changing our strategy and we are trying to improve our tactics . In the long run , these starts some rewarding , others inadequate and disappointing are crucial to SUCCESOne example is the struggle to make life better for the less fortunate among us . On a similar occasion , at this rostrum in 1949 , I heard a great American President , Harry Truman , declare this The American people have decided that poverty is just as wasteful and just as unnecessary as preventable disease . Many listened to President Truman that day here in this Chamber , but few understood what was required and did anything about it . The executive branch and the Congress waited 15 long years before ever taking any action on that challenge , as it did on many other challenges that great President presented . And when , 3 years ago , you here in the Congress joined with me in a declaration of war on poverty , then I warned , It will not be a short or easy struggle no single weapon . . . will suffice but we shall not rest until that war is won . And I have come here to renew that pledge tonight . I recommend that we intensify our efforts to give the poor a chance to enjoy and to join in this Nation s progress . I shall propose certain administrative changes suggested by the Congress as well as some that we have learned from our own trial and error . I shall urge special methods and special funds to reach the hundreds of thousands of Americans that are now trapped in the ghettos of our big cities and , through Head Start , to try to reach out to our very young , little children . The chance to learn is their brightest hope and must command our full determination . For learning brings skills and skills bring jobs and jobs bring responsibility and dignity , as well as taxes . This war like the war in Vietnam is not a simple one . There is no single battleline which you can plot each day on a chart . The enemy is not easy to perceive , or to isolate , or to destroy . There are mistakes and there are setbacks . But we are moving , and our direction is forward . This is true with other programs that are making and breaking new ground . Some do not yet have the capacity to absorb well or wisely all the money that could be put into them . Administrative skills and trained manpower are just as vital to their success as dollars . And I believe those skills will come . But it will take time and patience and hard work . Success cannot be forced at a single stroke . So we must continue to strengthen the administration of every program if that success is to come as we know it must . We have done much in the space of two short years , working together . I have recommended , and you , the Congress , have approved , 10 different reorganization plans , combining and consolidating many bureaus of this Government , and creating two entirely new Cabinet departments . I have come tonight to propose that we establish a new department a Department of Business and Labor . By combining the Department of Commerce with the Department of Labor and other related agencies , I think we can create a more economical , efficient , and streamlined instrument that will better serve a growing nation . This is our goal throughout the entire Federal Government . Every program will be thoroughly evaluated . Grant in aid programs will be improved and simplified as desired by many of our local administrators and our Governors . Where there have been mistakes , we will try very hard to correct them . Where there has been progress , we will try to build upon it . Our second objective is partnership to create an effective partnership at all levels of government . And I should treasure nothing more than to have that partnership begin between the executive and the Congress . The 88th and the 89th Congresses passed more social and economic legislation than any two single Congresses in American history . Most of you who were Members of those Congresses voted to pass most of those measures . But your efforts will come to nothing unless it reaches the people . Federal energy is essential . But it is not enough . Only a total working partnership among Federal , State , and local governments can succeed . The test of that partnership will be the concern of each public organization , each private institution , and each responsible citizen . Each State , county , and city needs to examine its capacity for government in today s world , as we are examining ours in the executive department , and as I see you are examining yours . Some will need to reorganize and reshape their methods of administration as we are doing . Others will need to revise their constitutions and their laws to bring them up to date as we are doing . Above all , I think we must work together and find ways in which the multitudes of small jurisdictions can be brought together more efficiently . During the past 3 years we have returned to State and local governments about 40 billion in grants in aid . This year alone , 70 percent of our Federal expenditures for domestic programs will be distributed through the State and local governments . With Federal assistance , State and local governments by 1970 will be spending close to 110 billion annually . These enormous sums must be used wisely , honestly , and effectively . We intend to work closely with the States and the localities to do exactly that . Our third objective is priorities , to move ahead on the priorities that we have established within the resources that are available . I wish , of course , that we could do all that should be done and that we could do it now . But the Nation has many commitments and responsibilities which make heavy demands upon our total resources . No administration would more eagerly utilize for these programs all the resources they require than the administration that started them . So let us resolve , now , to do all that we can , with what we have knowing that it is far , far more than we have ever done before , and far , far less than our problems will ultimately require . Let us create new opportunities for our children and our young Americans who need special help . We should strengthen the Head Start program , begin it for children 3 years old , and maintain its educational momentum by following through in the early years . We should try new methods of child development and care from the earliest years , before it is too late to correct . And I will propose these measures to the 90th Congress . Let us insure that older Americans , and neglected Americans , share in their Nation s progress . We should raise social security payments by an overall average of 20 percent . That will add 4 billion 100 million to social security payments in the first year . I will recommend that each of the 23 million Americans now receiving payments get an increase of at least 15 percent . I will ask that you raise the minimum payments by 59 percent from 44 to 70 a month , and to guarantee a minimum benefit of 100 a month for those with a total of 25 years of coverage . We must raise the limits that retired workers can earn without losing social security income . We must eliminate by law unjust discrimination in employment because of age . We should embark upon a major effort to provide self help assistance to the forgotten in our midst the American Indians and the migratory farm workers . And we should reach with the hand of understanding to help those who live in rural poverty . And I will propose these measures to the 90th Congress . So let us keep on improving the quality of life and enlarging the meaning of justice for all of our fellow Americans . We should transform our decaying slums into places of decency through the landmark Model Cities program . I intend to seek for this effort , this year , the full amount that you in Congress authorized last year . We should call upon the genius of private industry and the most advanced technology to help rebuild our great cities . We should vastly expand the fight for dean air with a total attack on pollution at its sources , and because air , like water , does not respect manmade boundaries we should set up regional airsheds throughout this great land . We should continue to carry to every corner of the Nation our campaign for a beautiful America to dean up our towns , to make them more beautiful , our cities , our countryside , by creating more parks , and more seashores , and more open spaces for our children to play in , and for the generations that come after us to enjoy . We should continue to seek equality and justice for each citizen before a jury , in seeking a job , in exercising his civil rights . We should find a solution to fair housing , so that every American , regardless of color , has a decent home of his choice . We should modernize our Selective Service System . The National Commission on Selective Service will shortly submit its report . I will send you new recommendations to meet our military manpower needs . But let us resolve that this is to be the Congress that made our draft laws as fair and as effective as possible . We should protect what Justice Brandeis called the right most valued by civilized men the right to privacy . We should outlaw all wiretapping public and private wherever and whenever it occurs , except when the security of this Nation itself is at stake and only then with the strictest governmental safeguards . And we should exercise the full reach of our constitutional powers to outlaw electronic bugging and snooping . I hope this Congress will try to help me do more for the consumer . We should demand that the cost of credit be clearly and honestly expressed where average citizens can understand it . We should immediately take steps to prevent massive power failures , to safeguard the home against hazardous household products , and to assure safety in the pipelines that carry natural gas across our Nation . We should extend Medicare benefits that are now denied to 1 , 300 , 000 permanently and totally disabled Americans under 65 years of age . We should improve the process of democracy by passing our election reform and financing proposals , by tightening our laws regulating lobbying , and by restoring a reasonable franchise to Americans who move their residences . We should develop educational television into a vital public resource to enrich our homes , educate our families , and to provide assistance in our classrooms . We should insist that the public interest be fully served through the public s airwaves . And I will propose these measures to the 90th Congress . Now we come to a question that weighs very heavily on all our minds on yours and mine . This Nation must make an all out effort to combat crime . The 89th Congress gave us a new start in the attack on crime by passing the Law Enforcement Assistance Act that I recommended . We appointed the National Crime Commission to study crime in America and to recommend the best ways to carry that attack forward . And while we do not have all the answers , on the basis of its preliminary recommendations we are ready to move . This is not a war that Washington alone can win . The idea of a national police force is repugnant to the American people . Crime must be rooted out in local communities by local authorities . Our policemen must be better trained , must be better paid , and must be better supported by the local citizens that they try to serve and to protect . The National Government can and expects to help . And so I will recommend to the 90th Congress the Safe Streets and Crime Control Act of 1967 . It will enable us to assist those States and cities that try to make their streets and homes safer , their police forces better , their corrections systems more effective , and their courts more efficient . When the Congress approves , the Federal Government will be able to provide a substantial percentage of the cost 90 percent of the cost of developing the State and local plans , master plans , to combat crime in their area 60 percent of the cost of training new tactical units , developing instant communications and special alarm systems , and introducing the latest equipment and techniques so that they can become weapons in the war on crime 50 percent of the cost of building crime laboratories and police academy type centers so that our citizens can be protected by the best trained and served by the best equipped police to be found anywhere . We will also recommend new methods to prevent juvenile delinquents from becoming adult delinquents . We will seek new partnerships with States and cities in order to deal with this hideous narcotics problem . And we will recommend strict controls on the sale of firearms . At the heart of this attack on crime must be the conviction that a free America as Abraham Lincoln once said must let reverence for the laws . . . become the political religion of the Nation . Our country s laws must be respected . Order must be maintained . And I will support with all the constitutional powers the President possesses our Nation s law enforcement officials in their attempt to control the crime and the violence that tear the fabric of our communities . Many of these priority proposals will be built on foundations that have already been laid . Some will necessarily be small at first , but every beginning is a consequence . If we postpone this urgent work now , it will simply have to be done later , and later we will pay a much higher price . Our fourth objective is prosperity , to keep our economy moving ahead , moving ahead steadily and safely . We have now enjoyed 6 years of unprecedented and rewarding prosperity . Last year , in 1966 Wages were the highest in history and the unemployment rate , announced yesterday , reached the lowest point in 13 years Total after tax income of American families rose nearly 5 percent Corporate profits after taxes rose a little more than 5 percent Our gross national product advanced 5 . 5 percent , to about 740 billion Income per farm went up 6 percent . Now we have been greatly concerned because consumer prices rose 4 . 5 percent over the 18 months since we decided to send troops to Vietnam . This was more than we had expected and the Government tried to do everything that we knew how to do to hold it down . Yet we were not as successful as we wished to be . In the 18 months after we entered World War Iprices rose not 4 . 5 percent , but 13 . 5 percent . In the first 18 months after Korea , after the conflict broke out there , prices rose not 4 . 5 percent , but 11 percent . During those two periods we had OPA price control that the Congress gave us and War Labor Board wage controls . Since Vietnam we have not asked for those controls and we have tried to avoid imposing them . We believe that we have done better , but we make no pretense of having been successful or doing as well as we wished . Our greatest disappointment in the economy during 1966 was the excessive rise in interest rates and the tightening of credit . They imposed very severe and very unfair burdens on our home buyers and on our home builders , and all those associated with the home industry . Last January , and again last September , I recommended fiscal and moderate tax measures to try to restrain the unbalanced pace of economic expansion . Legislatively and administratively we took several billions out of the economy . With these measures , in both instances , the Congress approved most of the recommendations rather promptly . As 1966 ended , price stability was seemingly being restored . Wholesale prices are lower tonight than they were in August . So are retail food prices . Monetary conditions are also easing . Most interest rates have retreated from their earlier peaks . More money now seems to be available . Given the cooperation of the Federal Reserve System , which I so earnestly seek , I am confident that this movement can continue . I pledge the American people that I will do everything in a President s power to lower interest rates and to ease money in this country . The Federal Home Loan Bank Board tomorrow morning will announce that it will make immediately available to savings and loan associations an additional 1 billion , and will lower from 6 percent to 5 3 4 percent the interest rate charged on those loans . We shall continue on a sensible course of fiscal and budgetary policy that we believe will keep our economy growing without new inflationary spirals that will finance responsibly the needs of our men in Vietnam and the progress of our people at home that will support a significant improvement in our export surplus , and will press forward toward easier credit and toward lower interest rates . I recommend to the Congress a surcharge of 6 percent on both corporate and individual income taxes to last for 2 years or for so long as the unusual expenditures associated with our efforts in Vietnam continue . I will promptly recommend an earlier termination date if a reduction in these expenditures permits it . This surcharge will raise revenues by some 4 . 5 billion in the first year . For example , a person whose tax payment , the tax he owes , is 1 , 000 , will pay , under this proposal , an extra 60 over the 12 month period , or 5 a month . The overwhelming majority of Americans who pay taxes today are below that figure and they will pay substantially less than 5 a month . Married couples with two children , with incomes up to 5 , 000 per year , will be exempt from this tax as will single people with an income of up to 1 , 900 a year . Now if Americans today still paid the income and excise tax rates in effect when I came into the Presidency , in the year 1964 , their annual taxes would have been over 20 billion more than at present tax rates . So this proposal is that while we have this problem and this emergency in Vietnam , while we are trying to meet the needs of our people at home , your Government asks for slightly more than one fourth of that tax cut each year in order to try to hold our budget deficit in fiscal 1968 within prudent limits and to give our country and to give our fighting men the help they need in this hour of trial . For fiscal 1967 , we estimate the budget expenditures to be 126 . 7 billion and revenues of 117 billion . That will leave us a deficit this year of 9 . 7 billion . For fiscal 1968 , we estimate budget expenditures of 135 billion . And with the tax measures recommended , and a continuing strong economy , we estimate revenues will be 126 . 9 billion . The deficit then will be 8 . 1 billion . I will very soon forward all of my recommendations to the Congress . Yours is the responsibility to discuss and to debate them to approve or modify or reject them . I welcome your views , as I have welcomed working with you for 30 years as a colleague and as Vice President and President . I should like to say to the Members of the opposition whose numbers , if I am not mistaken , seem to have increased somewhat that the genius of the American political system has always been best expressed through creative debate that offers choices and reasonable alternatives . Throughout our history , great Republicans and Democrats have seemed to understand this . So let there be light and reason in our relations . That is the way to a responsible session and a responsive government . Let us be remembered as a President and a Congress who tried to improve the quality of life for every American not just the rich , not just the poor , but every man , woman , and child in this great Nation of ours . We all go to school to good schools or bad schools . We all take air into our lungs clean air or polluted air . We all drink water pure water or polluted water . We all face sickness someday , and some more often than we wish , and old age as well . We all have a stake in this Great Society in its economic growth , in reduction of civil strife a great stake in good government . We just must not arrest the pace of progress we have established in this country in these years . Our children s children will pay the price if we are not wise enough , and courageous enough , and determined enough to stand up and meet the Nation s needs as well as we can in the time allotted us . Abroad , as at home , there is also risk in change . But abroad , as at home , there is a greater risk in standing still . No part of our foreign policy is so sacred that it ever remains beyond review . We shall be flexible where conditions in the world change and where man s efforts can change them for the better . We are in the midst of a great transition a transition from narrow nationalism to international partnership from the harsh spirit of the cold war to the hopeful spirit of common humanity on a troubled and a threatened planet . In Latin America , the American chiefs of state will be meeting very shortly to give our hemispheric policies new direction . We have come a long way in this hemisphere since the inter American effort in economic and social development was launched by the conference at Bogota in 1960 under the leadership of President Eisenhower . The Alliance for Progress moved dramatically forward under President Kennedy . There is new confidence that the voice of the people is being heard that the dignity of the individual is stronger than ever in this hemisphere , and we are facing up to and meeting many of the hemispheric problems together . In this hemisphere that reform under democracy can be made to happen because it has happened . So together , I think , we must now move to strike down the barriers to full cooperation among the American nations , and to free the energies and the resources of two great continents on behalf of all of our citizens . Africa stands at an earlier stage of development than Latin America . It has yet to develop the transportation , communications , agriculture , and , above all , the trained men and women without which growth is impossible . There , too , the job will best be done if the nations and peoples of Africa cooperate on a regional basis . More and more our programs for Africa are going to be directed toward self help . The future of Africa is shadowed by unsolved racial conflicts . Our policy will continue to reflect our basic commitments as a people to support those who are prepared to work towards cooperation and harmony between races , and to help those who demand change but reject the fool s gold of violence . In the Middle East the spirit of good will toward all , unfortunately , has not yet taken hold . An already tortured peace seems to be constantly threatened . We shall try to use our influence to increase the possibilities of improved relations among the nations of that region . We are working hard at that task . In the great subcontinent of South Asia live more than a sixth of the earth s population . Over the years we and others have invested very heavily in capital and food for the economic development of India and Pakistan . We are not prepared to see our assistance wasted , however , in conflict . It must strengthen their capacity to help themselves . It must help these two nations both our friends to overcome poverty , to emerge as self reliant leaders , and find terms for reconciliation and cooperation . In Western Europe we shall maintain in NATO an integrated common defense . But we also look forward to the time when greater security can be achieved through measures of arms control and disarmament , and through other forms of practical agreement . We are shaping a new future of enlarged partnership in nuclear affairs , in economic and technical cooperation , in trade negotiations , in political consultation , and in working together with the governments and peoples of Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union . The emerging spirit of confidence is precisely what we hoped to achieve when we went to work a generation ago to put our shoulder to the wheel and try to help rebuild Europe . We faced new challenges and opportunities then and there and we faced also some dangers . But I believe that the peoples on both sides of the Atlantic , as well as both sides of this Chamber , wanted to face them together . Our relations with the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe are also in transition . We have avoided both the acts and the rhetoric of the cold war . When we have differed with the Soviet Union , or other nations , for that matter , I have tried to differ quietly and with courtesy , and without venom . Our objective is not to continue the cold war , but to end it . We have reached an agreement at the United Nations on the peaceful uses of outer space . We have agreed to open direct air flights with the Soviet Union . We have removed more than 400 nonstrategic items from export control . We are determined that the Export Import Bank can allow commercial credits to Poland , Hungary , Bulgaria , and Czechoslovakia , as well as to Romania and Yugoslavia . We have entered into a cultural agreement with the Soviet Union for another 2 years . We have agreed with Bulgaria and Hungary to upgrade our legations to embassies . We have started discussions with international agencies on ways of increasing contacts with Eastern European countries . This administration has taken these steps even as duty compelled us to fulfill and execute alliances and treaty obligations throughout the world that were entered into before I became President . So tonight I now ask and urge this Congress to help our foreign and our commercial trade policies by passing an East West trade bill and by approving our consular convention with the Soviet Union . The Soviet Union has in the past year increased its long range missile capabilities . It has begun to place near Moscow a limited antimissile defense . My first responsibility to our people is to assure that no nation can ever find it rational to launch a nuclear attack or to use its nuclear power as a credible threat against us or against our allies . I would emphasize that that is why an important link between Russia and the United States is in our common interest , in arms control and in disarmament . We have the solemn duty to slow down the arms race between us , if that is at all possible , in both conventional and nuclear weapons and defenses . I thought we were making some progress in that direction the first few months I was in office . I realize that any additional race would impose on our peoples , and on all mankind , for that matter , an additional waste of resources with no gain in security to either side . I expect in the days ahead to closely consult and seek the advice of the Congress about the possibilities of international agreements bearing directly upon this problem . Next to the pursuit of peace , the really greatest challenge to the human family is the race between food supply and population increase . That race tonight is being lost . The time for rhetoric has clearly passed . The time for concerted action is here and we must get on with the job . We believe that three principles must prevail if our policy is to succeed First , the developing nations must give highest priority to food production , including the use of technology and the capital of private enterprise . Second , nations with food deficits must put more of their resources into voluntary family planning programs . And third , the developed nations must all assist other nations to avoid starvation in the short run and to move rapidly towards the ability to feed themselves . Every member of the world community now bears a direct responsibility to help bring our most basic human account into balance . I come now finally to Southeast Asia and to Vietnam in particular . Soon I will submit to the Congress a detailed report on that situation . Tonight I want to just review the essential points as briefly as I can . We are in Vietnam because the United States of America and our allies are committed by the SEATO Treaty to act to meet the common danger of aggression in Southeast Asia . We are in Vietnam because an international agreement signed by the United States , North Vietnam , and others in 1962 is being systematically violated by the Communists . That violation threatens the independence of all the small nations in Southeast Asia , and threatens the peace of the entire region and perhaps the world . We are there because the people of South Vietnam have as much right to remain non Communist if that is what they choose as North Vietnam has to remain Communist . We are there because the Congress has pledged by solemn vote to take all necessary measures to prevent further aggression . No better words could describe our present course than those once spoken by the great Thomas Jefferson It is the melancholy law of human societies to be compelled sometimes to choose a great evil in order to ward off a greater . We have chosen to fight a limited war in Vietnam in an attempt to prevent a larger war a war almost certain to follow , I believe , if the Communists succeed in overrunning and taking over South Vietnam by aggression and by force . I believe , and I am supported by some authority , that if they are not checked now the world can expect to pay a greater price to check them later . That is what our statesmen said when they debated this treaty , and that is why it was ratified 82 to 1 by the Senate many years ago . You will remember that we stood in Western Europe 20 years ago . Is there anyone in this Chamber tonight who doubts that the course of freedom was not changed for the better because of the courage of that stand Sixteen years ago we and others stopped another kind of aggression this time it was in Korea . Imagine how different Asia might be today if we had failed to act when the Communist army of North Korea marched south . The Asia of tomorrow will be far different because we have said in Vietnam , as we said 16 years ago in Korea This far and no further . I think I reveal no secret when I tell you that we are dealing with a stubborn adversary who is committed to the use of force and terror to settle political questions . I wish I could report to you that the conflict is almost over . This I cannot do . We face more cost , more loss , and more agony . For the end is not yet . I cannot promise you that it will come this year or come next year . Our adversary still believes , I think , tonight , that he can go on fighting longer than we can , and longer than we and our allies will be prepared to stand up and resist . Our men in that area there are nearly 500 , 000 now have borne well the burden and the heat of the day . Their efforts have deprived the Communist enemy of the victory that he sought and that he expected a year ago . We have steadily frustrated his main forces . General Westmoreland reports that the enemy can no longer succeed on the battlefield . So I must say to you that our pressure must be sustained and will be sustained until he realizes that the war he started is costing him more than he can ever gain . I know of no strategy more likely to attain that end than the strategy of accumulating slowly , but inexorably , every kind of material resource of laboriously teaching troops the very elements of their trade . That , and patience and I mean a great deal of patience . Our South Vietnamese allies are also being tested tonight . Because they must provide real security to the people living in the countryside . And this means reducing the terrorism and the armed attacks which kidnaped and killed 26 , 900 civilians in the last 32 months , to levels where they can be successfully controlled by the regular South Vietnamese security forces . It means bringing to the villagers an effective civilian government that they can respect , and that they can rely upon and that they can participate in , and that they can have a personal stake in . We hope that government is now beginning to emerge . While I cannot report the desired progress in the pacification effort , the very distinguished and able Ambassador , Henry Cabot Lodge , reports that South Vietnam is turning to this task with a new sense of urgency . We can help , but only they can win this part of the war . Their task is to build and protect a new life in each rural province . One result of our stand in Vietnam is already clear . It is this The peoples of Asia now know that the door to independence is not going to be slammed shut . They know that it is possible for them to choose their own national destinies without coercion . The performance of our men in Vietnam backed by the American people has created a feeling of confidence and unity among the independent nations of Asia and the Pacific . I saw it in their faces in the 19 days that I spent in their homes and in their countries . Fear of external Communist conquest in many Asian nations is already subsiding and with this , the spirit of hope is rising . For the first time in history , a common outlook and common institutions are already emerging . This forward movement is rooted in the ambitions and the interests of Asian nations themselves . It was precisely this movement that we hoped to accelerate when I spoke at Johns Hopkins in Baltimore in April 1965 , and I pledged a much more massive effort to improve the life of man in that part of the world , in the hope that we could take some of the funds that we were spending on bullets and bombs and spend it on schools and production . Twenty months later our efforts have produced a new reality The doors of the billion dollar Asian Development Bank that I recommended to the Congress , and you endorsed almost unanimously , I am proud to tell you are already open . Asians are engaged tonight in regional efforts in a dozen new directions . Their hopes are high . Their faith is strong . Their confidence is deep . And even as the war continues , we shall play our part in carrying forward this constructive historic development . As recommended by the Eugene Black mission , and if other nations will join us , I will seek a special authorization from the Congress of 200 million for East Asian regional programs . We are eager to turn our resources to peace . Our efforts in behalf of humanity I think need not be restricted by any parallel or by any boundary line . The moment that peace comes , as I pledged in Baltimore , I will ask the Congress for funds to join in an international program of reconstruction and development for all the people of Vietnam and their deserving neighbors who wish our help . We shall continue to hope for a reconciliation between the people of Mainland China and the world community including working together in all the tasks of arms control , security , and progress on which the fate of the Chinese people , like their fellow men elsewhere , depends . We would be the first to welcome a China which decided to respect her neighbors rights . We would be the first to applaud her were she to apply her great energies and intelligence to improving the welfare of her people . And we have no intention of trying to deny her legitimate needs for security and friendly relations with her neighboring countries . Our hope that all of this will someday happen rests on the conviction that we , the American people and our allies , will and are going to see Vietnam through to an honorable peace . We will support all appropriate initiatives by the United Nations , and others , which can bring the several parties together for unconditional discussions of peace anywhere , any time . And we will continue to take every possible initiative ourselves to constantly probe for peace . Until such efforts succeed , or until the infiltration ceases , or until the conflict subsides , I think the course of wisdom for this country is that we just must firmly pursue our present course . We will stand firm in Vietnam . I think you know that our fighting men there tonight bear the heaviest burden of all . With their lives they serve their Nation . We must give them nothing less than our full support and we have given them that nothing less than the determination that Americans have always given their fighting men . Whatever our sacrifice here , even if it is more than 5 a month , it is small compared to their own . How long it will take I cannot prophesy . I only know that the will of the American people , I think , is tonight being tested . Whether we can fight a war of limited objectives over a period of time , and keep alive the hope of independence and stability for people other than ourselves whether we can continue to act with restraint when the temptation to get it over with is inviting but dangerous whether we can accept the necessity of choosing a great evil in order to ward off a greater whether we can do these without arousing the hatreds and the passions that are ordinarily loosed in time of war on all these questions so much turns . The answers will determine not only where we are , but whither we are tending . A time of testing yes . And a time of transition . The transition is sometimes slow sometimes unpopular almost always very painful and often quite dangerous . But we have lived with danger for a long time before , and we shall live with it for a long time yet to come . We know that man is born unto trouble . We also know that this Nation was not forged and did not survive and grow and prosper without a great deal of sacrifice from a great many men . For all the disorders that we must deal with , and all the frustrations that concern us , and all the anxieties that we are called upon to resolve , for all the issues we must face with the agony that attends them , let us remember that those who expect to reap the blessings of freedom must , like men , undergo the fatigues of supporting it . But let us also count not only our burdens but our blessings for they are many . And let us give thanks to the One who governs us all . Let us draw encouragement from the signs of hope for they , too , are many . Let us remember that we have been tested before and America has never been found wanting . So with your understanding , I would hope your confidence , and your support , we are going to persist and we are going to succeed .<speech_sep>Good evening , my fellow Americans I speak to you this evening about very important developments in our search for peace in Vietnam . We have been engaged in discussions with the North Vietnamese in Paris since last May . The discussions began after I announced on the evening of March 31st in a television speech to the Nation that the United States in an effort to get talks started on a settlement of the Vietnam war had stopped the bombing of North Vietnam in the area where 90 percent of the people live . When our representatives Ambassador Harriman and Ambassador Vance were sent to Paris , they were instructed to insist throughout the discussions that the legitimate elected Government of South Vietnam must take its place in any serious negotiations affecting the future of South Vietnam . Therefore , our Ambassadors Harriman and Vance made it abundantly clear to the representatives of North Vietnam in the beginning that as I had indicated on the evening of March 31st we would stop the bombing of North Vietnamese territory entirely when that would lead to prompt and productive talks , meaning by that talks in which the Government of Vietnam was free to participate . Our ambassadors also stressed that we could not stop the bombing so long as by doing so we would endanger the lives and the safety of our troops . For a good many weeks , there was no movement in the talks at all . The talks appeared to really be deadlocked . Then a few weeks ago , they entered a new and a very much more hopeful phase . As we moved ahead , I conducted a series of very intensive discussions with our allies , and with the senior military and diplomatic officers of the United States Government , on the prospects for peace . The President also briefed our congressional leaders and all of the presidential candidates . Last Sunday evening , and throughout Monday , we began to get confirmation of the essential understanding that we had been seeking with the North Vietnamese on the critical issues between us for some time . I spent most of all day Tuesday reviewing every single detail of this matter with our field commander , General Abrams , whom I had ordered home , and who arrived here at the White House at 2 30 in the morning and went into immediate conference with the President and the appropriate members of his Cabinet . We received General Abrams judgment and we heard his recommendations at some length . Now , as a result of all of these developments , I have now ordered that all air , naval , and artillery bombardment of North Vietnam cease as of 8 a . m . , Washington time , Friday morning . I have reached this decision on the basis of the developments in the Paris talks . And I have reached it in the belief that this action can lead to progress toward a peaceful settlement of the Vietnamese war . I have already informed the three presidential candidates , as well as the congressional leaders of both the Republican and the Democratic Parties of the reasons that the Government has made this decision . This decision very closely conforms to the statements that I have made in the past concerning a bombing cessation . It was on August 19th that the President said This administration does not intend to move further until it has good reason to believe that the other side intends seriously seriously to join us in deescalating the war and moving seriously toward peace . And then again on September 10th , I said The bombing will not stop until we are confident that it will not lead to an increase in American casualties . The Joint Chiefs of Staff , all military men , have assured me and General Abrams very firmly asserted to me on Tuesday in that early , 2 30 a . m . meeting that in their military judgment this action should be taken now , and this action would not result in any increase in American casualties . A regular session of the Paris talks is going to take place next Wednesday , November 6th , at which the representatives of the Government of South Vietnam are free to participate . We are informed by the representatives of the Hanoi Government that the representatives of the National Liberation Front will also be present . I emphasize that their attendance in no way involves recognition of the National Liberation Front in any form . Yet , it conforms to the statements that we have made many times over the years that the NLF would have no difficulty making its views known . But what we now expect what we have a right to expect are prompt , productive , serious , and intensive negotiations in an atmosphere that is conducive to progress . We have reached the stage where productive talks can begin . We have made clear to the other side that such talks cannot continue if they take military advantage of them . We cannot have productive talks in an atmosphere where the cities are being shelled and where the demilitarized zone is being abused . I think I should caution you , my fellow Americans , that arrangements of this kind are never foolproof . For that matter , even formal treaties are never foolproof , as we have learned from our experience . But in the light of the progress that has been made in recent weeks , and after carefully considering and weighing the unanimous military and diplomatic advice and judgment rendered to the Commander in Chief , I have finally decided to take this step now and to really determine the good faith of those who have assured us that progress will result when bombing ceases and to try to ascertain if an early peace is possible . The overriding consideration that governs us at this hour is the chance and the opportunity that we might have to save human lives , save human lives on both sides of the conflict . Therefore , I have concluded that we should see if they are acting in good faith . We could be misled and we are prepared for such a contingency . We pray God it does not occur . But it should be clear to all of us that the new phase of negotiations which opens on November 6th does not repeat , does not mean that a stable peace has yet come to Southeast Asia . There may well be very hard fighting ahead . Certainly , there is going to be some very hard negotiating , because many difficult and critically important issues are still facing these negotiators . But I hope and I believe that with good will we can solve them . We know that negotiations can move swiftly if the common intent of the negotiators is peace in the world . The world should know that the American people bitterly remember the long , agonizing Korean negotiations of 1951 through 1953 and that our people will just not accept deliberate delay and prolonged procrastination again . Well then , how has it come about that now , on November 1st , we have agreed to stop the bombardment of North Vietnam I would have given all I possess if the conditions had permitted me to stop it months ago if there had just been any movement in the Paris talks that would have justified me in saying to you , Now it can be safely stopped . But the President of the United States , do not control the timing of the events in Hanoi . The decisions in Hanoi really determine when and whether it would be possible for us to stop the bombing . We could not retract our insistence on the participation of the Government of South Vietnam in serious talks affecting the future of their people the people of South Vietnam . For though we have allied with South Vietnam for many years in this struggle , we have never assumed and we shall never demand the role of dictating the future of the people of South Vietnam . The very principle for which we are engaged in South Vietnam the principle of self determination requires that the South Vietnamese people themselves be permitted to freely speak for themselves at the Paris talks and that the South Vietnamese delegation play a leading role in accordance with our agreement with President Thieu at Honolulu . It was made just as clear to North Vietnam that a total bombing halt must not risk the lives of our men . When I spoke last March 31st , I said that evening Whether a complete bombing halt becomes possible in the future will be determined by events . Well , I cannot tell you tonight specifically in all detail why there has been progress in Paris . But I can tell you that a series of hopeful events has occurred in South Vietnam The Government of South Vietnam has grown steadily stronger . South Vietnam s Armed Forces have been substantially increased to the point where a million men are tonight under arms , and the effectiveness of these men has steadily improved . The superb performance of our own men , under the brilliant leadership of General Westmoreland and General Abrams , has produced truly remarkable results . Now , perhaps some or all of these factors played a part in bringing about progress in the talks . And when at last progress did come , I believe that my responsibilities to the brave men our men who bear the burden of battle in South Vietnam tonight , and my duty to seek an honorable settlement of the war , required me to recognize and required me to act without delay . I have acted tonight . There have been many long days of waiting for new steps toward peace days that began in hope , only to end at night in disappointment . Constancy to our national purpose which is to seek the basis for a durable peace in Southeast Asia has sustained me in all of these hours when there seemed to be no progress whatever in these talks . But now that progress has come , I know that your prayers are joined with mine and with those of all humanity , that the action I announce tonight will be a major step toward a firm and an honorable peace in Southeast Asia . It can be . So , what is required of us in these new circumstances is exactly that steady determination and patience which has brought us to this more hopeful prospect . What is required of us is a courage and a steadfastness , and a perseverance here at home , that will match that of our men who fight for us tonight in Vietnam . So , I ask you not only for your prayers but for the courageous and understanding support that Americans always give their President and their leader in an hour of trial . With that understanding , and with that support , we shall not fail . Seven months ago I said that I would not permit the Presidency to become involved in the partisan divisions that were then developing in this political year . Accordingly , on the night of March 31st , I announced that I would not seek nor accept the nomination of my party for another term as President . I have devoted every resource of the Presidency to the search for peace in Southeast Asia . Throughout the entire summer and fall I have kept all of the presidential candidates fully briefed on developments in Paris as well as in Vietnam . I have made it abundantly clear that no one candidate would have the advantage over others either in information about those developments , or in advance notice of the policy the Government intended to follow . The chief diplomatic and military officers of this Government all were instructed to follow the same course . Since that night on March 31st , each of the candidates has had differing ideas about the Government s policy . But generally speaking , however , throughout the campaign we have been able to present a united voice supporting our Government and supporting our men in Vietnam . I hope , and I believe , that this can continue until January 20th of next year when a new President takes office . Because in this critical hour , we just simply cannot afford more than one voice speaking for our Nation in the search for peace . I do not know who will be inaugurated as the 37th President of the United States next January . But I do know that I shall do all that I can in the next few months to try to lighten his burdens as the contributions of the Presidents who preceded me have greatly lightened mine . I shall do everything in my power to move us toward the peace that the new President as well as this President and , I believe , every other American so deeply and urgently desires . Thank you for listening . Good night and God bless all of you .<speech_sep>Good morning , ladies and gentlemen , and my friends of the Association of American Editorial Cartoonists I am very happy that you requested through the press office this opportunity for us to meet together , because after looking at some of the cartoons you have drawn , I thought I had invite you over to see me in person . After all , I had nothing to lose . I know that I am talking to the most influential journalists in America . Reporters may write and politicians may talk but what you draw remains in the public memory long after these other words are forgotten . That is why , after I learned that you would be here and we would meet together , I put together some notes to discuss with you while you were in Washington , a very little known side of our activity in one of the most vital places in the world South Viet Nam . The war in Viet Nam has many faces . There is the face of armed conflict of terror and gunfire of bomb heavy planes and campaign weary soldiers . In this conflict our only object is to prove that force will meet force , that armed conquest is futile , and that aggression is not only wrong , but it just will not work . And the Communists in Viet Nam are slowly beginning to realize what they once scorned to believe that we combine unlimited patience with unlimited resources in pursuit of an unwavering purpose . We will not abandon our commitment to South Viet Nam . The second face of war in Viet Nam is the quest for a political solution , the face of diplomacy and politics , of the ambitions and the interests of other nations . We know , as our adversaries should also know , that there is no purely military solution in sight for either side . We are ready for unconditional discussions . Most of the non Communist nations of the world favor such unconditional discussions . And it would dearly be in the interest of North Viet Nam to now come to the conference table . For them the continuation of war , without talks , means only damage without conquest . Communist China apparently desires the war to continue whatever the cost to their allies . Their target is not merely South Viet Nam it is Asia . Their objective is not the fulfillment of Vietnamese nationalism it is to erode and to discredit America s ability to help prevent Chinese domination over all of Asia . In this domination they shall never succeed . And I am continuing and I am increasing the search for every possible path to peace . The third face of war in Viet Nam is , at once , the most tragic and most hopeful . It is the face of human need . It is the untended sick , the hungry family , and the illiterate child . It is men and women , many without shelter , with rags for clothing , struggling for survival in a very rich and a very fertile land . It is the most important battle of all in which we are engaged . For a nation cannot be built by armed power or by political agreement . It will rest on the expectation by individual men and women that their future will be better than their past . It is not enough to just fight against something . People must fight for something , and the people of South Viet Nam must know that after the long , brutal journey through the dark tunnel of conflict there breaks the light of a happier day . And only if this is so , can they be expected to sustain the enduring will for continued strife . Only in this way can long run stability and peace come to their land . And there is another , more profound reason . In Viet Nam communism seeks to really impose its will by force of arms . But we would be deeply mistaken to think that this was the only weapon . Here , as other places in the world , they speak to restless people people rising to shatter the old ways which have imprisoned hope people fiercely and justly reaching for the material fruits from the tree of modern knowledge . It is this desire , and not simply lust for conquest , which moves many of the individual fighting men that we must now , sadly , call the enemy . It is , therefore , our task to show that freedom from the control of other nations offers the surest road to progress , that history and experience testify to this truth . But it is not enough to call upon reason or point to examples . We must show it through action and we must show it through accomplishment . And even were there no war either hot or cold we would always be active in humanity s search for progress . This task is commanded to us by the moral values of our civilization , and it rests on the inescapable nature of the world that we have now entered . For in that world , as long as we can foresee , every threat to man s welfare will be a threat to the welfare of our own people . Those who live in the emerging community of nations will ignore the perils of their neighbors at the risk of their own prospects . This is true not only for Viet Nam but for every part of the developing world . This is why , on your behalf , I recently proposed a massive , cooperative development effort for all of southeast Asia . I named the respected leader , Eugene Black , as my personal representative to inaugurate our participation in these programs . Since that time rapid progress has been made , I am glad to report . Black has met with the top officials of the United Nations on several occasions . He has talked to other interested parties . He has found increasing enthusiasm . The United Nations is already setting up new mechanisms to help carry forward the work of development . In addition , the United States is now prepared to participate in , and to support , an Asian Development Bank , to carry out and help finance the economic progress in that area of the world and the development that we desire to see in that area of the world . So this morning I call on every other industrialized nation , including the Soviet Union , to help create a better life for all of the people of southeast Asia . Surely , surely , the works of peace can bring men together in a common effort to abandon forever the works of war But , as South Viet Nam is the central place of conflict , it is also a principal focus of our work to increase the well being of people . It is in that effort in South Viet Nam which I think we are too little informed and which I want to relate to you this morning . We began in 1954 when Viet Nam became independent , before the war between the North and the South . Since that time we have spent more than 2 billion in economic help for the 16 million people of South Viet Nam . And despite the ravages of war we have made steady continuing gains . We have concentrated on food , and health , and education , and housing , and industry . Like most developing countries , South Viet Nam s economy rests on agriculture . Unlike many , it has large uncrowded areas of very rich and very fertile land . Because of this , it is one of the great rice bowls of the entire world . With our help , since 1954 , South Viet Nam has already doubled its rice production , providing food for the people , as well as providing a vital export for that nation . We have put our American farm know how to work on other crops . This year , for instance , several hundred million cuttings of a new variety of sweet potato , that promises a sixfold increase in yield , will be distributed to these Vietnamese farmers . Corn output should rise from 25 , 000 tons in 1962 to 100 , 000 tons by 1966 . Pig production has more than doubled since 1955 Many animal diseases have been eliminated entirely . Disease and epidemic brood over every Vietnamese village . In a country of more than 16 million people with a life expectancy of only 35 years , there are only 200 civilian doctors . If the Vietnamese had doctors in the same ratio as the United States has doctors , they would have not the 200 that they do have but they would have more than 5 , 000 doctors . We have helped vaccinate , already , over 7 million people against cholera , and millions more against other diseases . Hundreds of thousands of Vietnamese can now receive treatment in the more than 12 , 000 hamlet health stations that America has built and has stocked . New clinics and surgical suites are scattered throughout that entire country and the medical school that we are now helping to build will graduate as many doctors in a single year as now serve the entire population of South Viet Nam . Education is the keystone of future development in Viet Nam . It takes a trained people to man the factories , to conduct the administration , to form the human foundation for an advancing nation . More than a quarter million young Vietnamese can now learn in more than 4 , 000 classrooms that America has helped to build in the last 2 years and 2 , 000 more schools are going to be built by us in the next 12 months . The number of students in vocational schools has gone up four times . Enrollment was 300 , 000 in 1955 , when we first entered there and started helping with our program . Today it is more than 1 1 2 million . The 8 million textbooks that we have supplied to Vietnamese children will rise to more than 15 million by 1967 . Agriculture is the foundation . Health , education , and housing are the urgent human needs . But industrial development is the great pathway to their future . When Viet Nam was divided , most of the industry was in the North . The South was barren of manufacturing and the foundations for industry . But today , more than 700 new or rehabilitated factories textile mills and cement plants , electronics and plastics are changing the entire face of that nation . New roads and communications , railroad equipment and electric generators , are a spreading base on which this new industry can , and is , growing . All this progress goes on , and it is going to continue to go on , under circumstances of staggering adversity . Communist terrorists have made AID programs that we administer a very special target of their attack . They fear them . They know they must fear them because agricultural stations are being destroyed and medical centers are being burned . More than 100 Vietnamese malaria fighters are dead . Our own AID officials have been wounded and killed and kidnapped . These are not just the accidents of war . They are a part of a deliberate campaign , in the words of the Communists themselves , to cut the fingers off the hands of the government . We intend to continue , and we intend to increase our help to Viet Nam . Nor can anyone doubt the determination of the South Vietnamese themselves . They have lost more than 12 , 000 of their men since I became your President a little over a year ago . But progress does not come from investment alone , or plans on a desk , or even the directives and the orders that we approve here in Washington . It takes men . Men must take the seed to the farmer . Men must teach the use of fertilizer . Men must help in harvest . Men must build the schools , and men must instruct the students . Men must carry medicine into the jungle and treat the sick , and shelter the homeless . And men brave , tireless , filled with love for their fellows are doing this today . They are doing it through the long , hot , danger filled Vietnamese days and the sultry nights . The fullest glory must go , also , to those South Vietnamese that are laboring and dying for their own people and their own nation . In hospitals and schools , along the rice fields and the roads , they continue to labor , never knowing when death or terror may strike . How incredible it is that there are a few who still say that the South Vietnamese do not want to continue this struggle . They are sacrificing and they are dying by the thousands . Their patient valor in the heavy presence of personal , physical danger should be a helpful lesson to those of us who , here in America , only have to read about it , or hear about it on the television or radio . We have our own heroes who labor at the works of peace in the midst of war . They toil unarmed and out of uniform . They know the humanity of their concern does not exempt them from the horrors of conflict , yet they go on from day to day . They bring food to the hungry over there . They supply the sick with necessary medicine . They help the farmer with his crops , families to find clean water , villages to receive the healing miracles of electricity . These are Americans who have joined our AID program , and we welcome others to their ranks . For most Americans this is an easy war . Men fight and men suffer and men die , as they always must in war . But the lives of most of us , at least those of us in this room and those listening to me this morning , are untroubled . Prosperity rises , abundance increases , the Nation flourishes . I will report to the Cabinet when I leave this room that we are in the 51st month of continued prosperity , the longest peacetime prosperity for America since our country was founded . Yet our entire future is at stake . What a difference it would make if we could only call upon a small fraction of our unmatched private resources businesses and unions , agricultural groups and builders if we could call them to the task of peaceful progress in Viet Nam . With such a spirit of patriotic sacrifice we might well strike an irresistible blow for freedom there and for freedom throughout the world . therefore , hope that every person within the sound of my voice in this country this morning will look for ways and those citizens of other nations who believe in humanity as we do , I hope that they will find ways to help progress in South Viet Nam . This , then , is the third face of our struggle in Viet Nam . It was there the illiterate , the hungry , the sick before this war began . It will be there when peace comes to us and so will we . Not with soldiers and planes , not with bombs and bullets , but with all the wondrous weapons of peace in the 30th century . And then , perhaps , together , all of the people in the world can share that gracious task with all the people of Viet Nam , North and South alike . Thank you for coming this morning . Good morning .<speech_sep>Webb , Vice President , Members of the Senate and the House This is a very proud and a very happy occasion for all of us here , and I think it is a proud and happy occasion for all Americans everywhere . We intended to conduct this ceremony this morning outside in the Rose Garden . However , Major Grissom and Commander Young found their landing in Washington this morning only slightly less wet than their landing in the Atlantic Ocean on Tuesday . So we meet now in the famous East Room of the White House . I think it is fitting that we should assemble for this purpose in this historic and hallowed room . For 165 years this room has witnessed great moments of our history , and it has known great men of our past , from John Adams to John Kennedy . A sense of history is present strongly here today . All of us are conscious that we have crossed over the threshold of man s first tentative and experimental ventures in space . The question of whether there would be a role for man himself in space is already firmly and finally answered , and answered affirmatively . Man s role in space will be great , it will be vital , and it will be useful . Equally important , we can comprehend now better than we ever have been able to in the past that the role of space in the life of man on earth will also be great and vital and useful . So in this springtime of 1965 it seems incredible that it was only four springtimes ago when young Americans , including Gus Grissom , first flew into space . We have come very far in a very few short years . Yet the quickening pace of our advance will carry us far beyond this point of achievement even before one more year passes . The program we pursue now is a planned and orderly program with but one purpose the purpose of exploring space for the service of peace and the benefit of all mankind here on this earth . We are not concerned with stunts and spectaculars , but we are concerned with sure and with steady success . Since we gave our program direction and purpose 7 years ago , many such successes have been achieved through the efforts of a great American team , which now numbers 400 , 000 men and women in industry , on campuses , and in government . And this team is inspired and stimulated and led by a former Marine and a great public servant Jim Webb . We have come here today to honor just 4 of these 400 , 000 men on his team . We honor Gus Grissom , the first man to make two flights into space , and we honor both Gus Grissom and John Young as command pilot and pilot of our first two man Gemini spacecraft flight . We honor the Director of Project Ranger , Bud Schurmeier . He has led the team which produced for us and for all mankind the most dramatic advance in our knowledge of the moon . We also honor one of this Nation s most dedicated and most valuable public servants , the top career man of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration , Robert Seamans . As general manager of our civilian space effort , Seamans has performed absolutely magnificently . All Americans and all free men are in his debt . Through these four we honor all who have and who are contributing to America s effort to advance the horizon of human knowledge . This is a happy day in our Nation s Capital . It is a proud day for Americans everywhere , and I know it must be especially proud for the parents and the wives and the families of these two brave , patriotic , gallant , and exceptional young Americans , and it gives me much pleasure to be able to have them here in this first house of the land . And now , I want to thank each of you for coming here and participating with us . I am going to ask Administrator Webb to read the citations for these outstanding pioneers of the new age of space . Webb . This is a great day for all America . I just wish it were possible for the two great Presidents who provided such outstanding leadership in this field President Eisenhower and President Kennedy to be here to share these pleasures and joys with us . It was during President Eisenhower s administration that the space agency was born , and under his leadership that it grew and developed . It was President Kennedy s vision that brought about some of the things that we are here applauding today . I see in this room now I guess we do not have room up here for everyone who has played a vital part , but back when the Space Administration was created and from that time until this hour , there has been complete bipartisanship , and members of both parties have provided leadership in uniting behind the Space Administrator and these fine young men who brought us the accomplishments that we are applauding today . So I would like to ask the Members of the House and the Senate and their leaders and the chairmen of their committees to stand now and let us give the Congress a hand for the part that it has played in bringing into effect what we are so proud of . Congressman George Miller of California is chairman of the House Space Committee , and Senator Anderson of New Mexico is chairman of the Senate Space Committee . We thank all the Members of Congress of both parties and we are delighted to have had you and we hope you enjoy the day .<speech_sep>Good morning , ladies and gentlemen For 37 days , no bombs fell on North Vietnam . During that time , we have made a most intensive and determined effort to enlist the help and the support of all the world in order to persuade the Government in Hanoi that peace is better than war , that talking is better than fighting , and that the road to peace is open . Our effort has met with understanding and support throughout most of the world , but not in Hanoi and Peking . From those two capitals have come only denunciation and rejection . In these 37 days , the efforts of our allies have been rebuffed . The efforts of neutral nations have come to nothing . We have sought , without success , to learn of any response to efforts made by the governments of Eastern Europe . There has been no answer to the enlightened efforts of the Vatican . Our own direct private approaches have all been in vain . The answer of Hanoi to all is the answer that was published 3 days ago . They persist in aggression . They insist on the surrender of South Vietnam to communism . It is , therefore , very plain that there is no readiness or willingness to talk , no readiness for peace in that regime today . And what is plain in words is also plain in acts . Throughout these 37 days , even at moments of truce , there has been continued violence against the people of South Vietnam , against their Government , against their soldiers , and against our own American forces . We do not regret the pause in the bombing . We yield to none in our determination to seek peace . We have given a full and decent respect to the opinions of those who thought that such a pause might give new hope for peace in the world . Some said that 10 days might do it . Others said 20 . Now , we have paused for twice the time suggested by some of those who urged it . And now the world knows more clearly than it has ever known before who it is that insists on aggression and who it is that works for peace . The Vietnamese , American , and allied troops that are engaged in South Vietnam , with increasing strength and increasing success , want peace , I am sure , as much as any of us here at home . But while there is no peace , those men are entitled to the full support of American strength and American determination and we will give them both . As constitutional Commander in Chief , I have , as I must , given proper weight to the judgment of those , all of those , who have any responsibility for counseling with me or sharing with me the burdensome decisions that I am called upon to make the distinguished Secretary of State , the Secretary of Defense , my National Security Adviser , and America s professional military men , represented by the Joint Chiefs of Staff . These advisers tell me that if continued immunity is given to all that support North Vietnam aggression , the cost in lives Vietnamese lives and American lives and allied lives will only be greatly increased . In the light of the words and actions of the Government in Hanoi for more than 37 days now , it is our clear duty to do what we can to limit these costs . So on this Monday morning in Vietnam , at my direction , after complete and thorough consultation and agreement with the Government of South Vietnam , United States aircraft have resumed action in North Vietnam . They struck the lines of supply which support the continuing movement of men and arms against the people and the Government of South Vietnam . Our air strikes on North Vietnam from the beginning have been aimed at military targets and have been controlled with the greatest of care . Those who direct and supply the aggression really have no claim to immunity from military reply . The end of the pause does not mean the end of our own pursuit of peace . That pursuit will be as determined and as unremitting as the pressure of our military strength on the field of battle . In our continuing pursuit of peace , I have instructed Ambassador Goldberg at the United Nations to ask for an immediate meeting of the United Nations Security Council . He will present a full report on the situation in Vietnam , and a resolution which can open the way to the conference table . This report and this resolution will be responsive to the spirit of the renewed appeal of Pope Paul , and that appeal has our full sympathy . I have asked Secretary Rusk to meet with the representatives of the press later this morning to give to the country and to the entire world a thorough and a comprehensive account of all of the diplomatic efforts conducted in these last 5 weeks in our continuing policy of peace and freedom for South Vietnam .<speech_sep>Ladies and gentlemen , I have come before you today for a regular , scheduled , televised , notified well in advance press conference . I did not drive myself over here . But I did have to cancel an informal meeting with some tourists at the gate . I am happy to see here today so many visiting members of the American Society of Newspaper Editors , so many of my old friends . You are welcome to your city . I have some information on the state of our national economy . In the first quarter of 1964 our gross national product rose to a rate of 608 billion . This is up 8 billion from the fourth quarter of 1963 . The first quarter gross national product is nearly 37 billion above the year earlier figure . It is the largest year to year gain , I am told by the Chairman of the Economic Council this afternoon , in more than 2 years . Personal income in March ran at a rate of 480 billion , an increase of 1 billion over February and 25 . 7 billion over the rate of March 1963 . for the first time in 2 years we are making real progress in cutting down unemployment . We had a net gain of 1 1 2 million jobs from a year ago . The jobless rate dropped from 5 . 8 percent to 5 . 4 percent , and some other facts I think are worthy of note . Labor has gained over 4 million jobs , nonfarm jobs , in a 3 year period , and over 56 billion of added annual income . Business has gained a 50 percent advance in profits after taxes . Moreover , these wage and profit gains have not been eaten away by inflation . Prices in the United States have been more stable than in any other industrial country in the world . With strong markets , with steady costs , with lower taxes , American business does not need higher price levels to assure continued growth and profits . I look , therefore , to responsible business and to responsible labor to help us maintain our very fine record of cost and price stability , and help us go all the way to full employment and a balanced budget , and a strong enough competitive position to wipe out the balance of payments deficits . I believe the accurate picture of what is happening in the railroad strike negotiations has been presented fully and completely , but this may interest you . I do want to stress my deep and earnest hope that these negotiations will strengthen the collective bargaining processes in our country . To me it is vitally important that we preserve our free enterprise system . free enterprise assumes a capacity of both labor and management to handle their own affairs and to settle differences by negotiations . I do not think that we serve the cause of free enterprise by precipitating situations which could lead to a breakdown of this process . The public interest must and will be served . I think it is in the public interest to proceed by negotiation wherever possible . Intensive negotiation day and night negotiation is now going on , assisted by the mediators who are experienced men that I have appointed and who have come here at great sacrifice . It is a genuine collective bargaining in the true sense of the word , and I have great faith in the capacity of true collective bargaining . There have been fewer strikes since January 1961 than in any other 3 year period since the early thirties . There have been fewer workers involved in strikes in the period since January 1961 than during any comparable 3 year period since the early thirties . There have been fewer man days lost because of strikes since 1961 than in any comparable 3 year period since World War IThere were more strikes and more people involved in them during the World War II period , but they were settled , as you know , much more quickly , which meant fewer man days were lost . I am today establishing a program of Presidential Scholars . The title will be given to outstanding scholars graduating from our secondary schools , public and private , throughout the Nation . These awards are to recognize the most precious resource of the United States the brain power of its young people to encourage the pursuit of intellectual attainments among all our youth . It is my hope that in the future a similar system can be worked out to honor our most gifted young people in the creative arts . Two Presidential Scholars , a boy and a girl , will be named from each State . Two will be named from Puerto Rico , two from the District of Columbia , two from the American Territories , and up to 15 at large . The Presidential Scholars will be chosen by a Commission on Presidential Scholars , which consists of Milton Eisenhower , president of Johns Hopkins University , the chairman of the Commission Leonard Bernstein Katherine Anne Porter Albert Dent , president of Dillard University of New Orleans the Reverend Michael Walsh , president of Boston College William Hagerty , president of Drexel Institute of Technology , Philadelphia and Melvin Barnes , the superintendent of schools of Portland , Oreg . The Commission will operate with complete independence . The Presidential Scholars will be named in May of this year . The President will invite them to the White House as guests of this Nation , and present each with a medallion symbolizing the honor . On March 30th , the Senate passed a bill which would authorize and investigate and study the possible construction of a sea level canal connecting the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans . This bill has been referred to the House Committee on Merchant Marine and fisheries . This administration supports this bill and hopes that the House committee will give early and favorable consideration to it . There are several alternative routes for such a canal , which will have to be studied carefully before a decision can be made . As part of the necessary studies , the United States and the Government of Colombia have already reached an agreement to conduct studies relative to a survey for a sea level canal . We are just able to announce this agreement today . We hope to make similar arrangements with other countries later . I have instructed the Secretary of Defense to immediately dispatch a survey team to Colombia to explore the possibility of constructing a sea level canal in that country . The Secretary of Defense has informed me that a 10 man team will leave for Colombia tomorrow morning to begin work immediately . The United States team will work in close collaboration with the team of the Colombian Government . I am very pleased to announce the appointment of Roger Stevens of New York as my assistant to advise me on the arts . To assist Stevens and to provide a forum for the representation of all the arts of the United States , I shall shortly issue an Executive order establishing a Presidential Board on the Arts . I have invited Prime Minister Krag of Denmark , and Krag , to visit Washington on June 9th . Johnson and I visited them last year . The Prime Minister has accepted the invitation , and he and Krag will be coming to Washington following their participation in Denmark Day at the New York World s fair . I am looking forward to seeing two of my old friends from Germany this summer . The Governing Mayor of Berlin , Willy Brandt , will be here on May 18th . The federal Chancellor , Ludwig Erhard , who was here earlier in the year , will come back on June 12th . I will be glad to have any questions . I think that we have a civil rights bill pending in the Senate that has passed the House . It is very important that bill be passed at the earliest possible date . I think passage of that bill will be helpful in this general situation . We do not , of course , condone violence or taking the law into your own hands , or threatening the health or safety of our people . You really do the civil rights cause no good when you go to this extent , but we are hopeful that all Americans understand that we are going to pass the civil rights bill because it is morally right , and because we feel that these people have too long been denied their rights . On the other hand , we do not think the violation of one right or the denial of one right should permit the violation of another right . Yes . I am pleased with our strength . I think we have made great gains during the last 3 years . When you realize that each year during the last 3 years we have spent approximately 6 billion more on our military budget than was spent the last year of the Eisenhower administration , when you realize that we are spending 8 billion more this year than was spent the last year of the Eisenhower administration on our military budget , you realize that approximately 25 billion more has been spent than would have been spent if we had gone on at the rate of the last year of the Republican administration . For that expenditure of 25 billion we have achieved extra combat divisions , extra nuclear warheads , extra missile strength . I am pleased with those accomplishments . Under the law the Secretary of Defense , McNamara , is charged with the leadership and the direction of the Defense Department . While he operates a tight budget , I think he operates an adequate one . I think his work has been constructive . I have confidence in him . The Congress has confidence in him . I believe the American people have confidence in him . You can depend on what he tells you . No , I do not anticipate another major development at this time . I am encouraged by the fact that there are approaches being made to purchase some things from our country , and the foreign Relations Committee of the Senate is now having hearings and giving study to the possibilities of increasing East West trade . But so far as anticipating just the extent of that trade and in what lines it will be , I am not able to say . I think that this is a matter that the mediators and the negotiators representing each side will attempt to evolve and find an agreeable ground and a common solution . I am not an overly optimistic man , but I do believe that under our collective bargaining system , a result can be reached . I hope and pray that it will be by the end of the week . No . I hope that they feel in November as they do in April . Of course , we would have preferred the decision to be unanimous and we would have liked for our friend and ally , France , to have seen the situation as did the other seven members of SEATWe are very pleased , however , that seven of us saw things alike . We have a definite policy in Viet Nam . You know what that policy is . We think it is the best policy that could be derived from the alternatives open to us and we are very pleased and happy that Secretary Rusk found that at least seven signatories of SEATO were willing to go along with us . Well , I did not do a great deal of anticipating prior to November on just how difficult the task would be , but I enjoy it . There is a lot of work connected with it . Nearly everyone is anxious to help you do that job . Most people are hoping and praying that you do a good job . And a very few people I have called on that have not been willing to put their shoulder to the wheel and help me . It is probably more difficult than I expected it would be , but I am enjoying it and I am prepared to continue . Well , first , I do not have any interest in Government regulated industries of any kind , and never have had . I own no stocks . I own a little ranch land , something in excess of 2 , 000 acres . The Commission has made no request of me or of my family for anything . We are perfectly willing to comply , I am sure the trustees would be , with any request that they did make . There is not anything that we have to secrete in any manner , shape , or form . Johnson inherited some property , invested that property in the profession of her choice , and worked at it with pleasure and satisfaction until I forced her to leave it when I assumed the Presidency . As you know , and I want all to know , all of that stock has been placed in trust , as has been the practice with other Presidents , and although I own none of it , Johnson has placed it in trust , an irrevocable trust that can the property can be disposed of , it can be leased , it can be sold , at any time . Any of those decisions would still require the action of the Commission . Even if you tried to sell it , you would have to have their approval . But I see no conflict in any way . She participates in no decisions the company makes . It is entirely with the trustees . In any event , if she did participate , the President would not have anything to do with it . I think it is always desirable for anyone to acquire as much knowledge of languages as possible . I have not given any study to the particular suggestion you make . It seems to be a good one , and I will have it explored . At the moment , I would not make a judgment because that decision will likely come to me in the near future . When the Joint Chiefs of Staff presented their military recommendations to me at the early part of the year , they were together on all of the recommendations with the exception that General LeMay asked for the privilege of taking funds already calculated in his budget and using them to study plans for a new bomber . I told him I would give consideration to his proposal . I understand that proposal has been formulated and is now going through channels , and will shortly come to the President . When it gets to me , I will study it as best I can and make the decision that I think is in the national interest . I would think that is a very accurate appraisal of it , and I would think it will be a hard fight , a difficult one . I would hope that it would not be too close , but it may be . I do not think that you can ever tell this far in advance how people are going to decide the choice , but I have no doubt but what it will be a hard and long fight . Yes . I would counsel moderation to all groups , and understanding of their fellowman and trying to appreciate his position . I think if people would put themselves in the other fellow s position , they will all be a little more tolerant of the other man s viewpoint . There are people who feel very strongly on both sides of this issue . I found that in the 1957 bill . I found it in the bill in 1960 . It took us many days and nights to try to find an area of agreement that the Members of Congress and the President would accept . I expect that there will be many days ahead when strong forces on both sides will be appealing to people to side with them . I only hope that we recognize that it has been a hundred years since Abraham Lincoln freed the slaves of their chains , but he has not freed all of the people of the bigotry that exists . It has been a hundred years since President Lincoln signed the Emancipation Proclamation , but a great many people do not have equal rights as of now . While emancipation may be a proclamation , it is not a fact until education is blind to color , until employment is unaware of race . As long as those conditions exist in the country , we are going to have protests and we are entitled to protest and petition under our constitutional rights . I hope , though , that the Congress will act promptly with reasonable dispatch to bring those protests and bring those petitions and bring these disturbances from the streets and the alleys into the courts where they belong . In order to do that , we need a good civil rights bill , and the bill now pending in the Senate is a good bill . I hope it can be passed in a reasonable time . Well , that would take more time than I have , but there are some that we are vitally interested in . I have just named one , the civil rights bill , that is pending in the Senate . We had difficulty in the House Judiciary Committee . It spent a long time there . Then the House Rules Committee . We filed a petition , and a good many Members signed that , to discharge the bill and finally the Rules Committee passed it . It is now in the Senate , and it has been debated a good while there . So that is a very important piece of legislation for the national welfare , because we are going to have many problems , even after it is passed , adjusting to it . We ought to get it passed as early as we can so that before school begins next year we will have this law on the books and we can move ahead . I think it is as important that we pass the food stamp plan in the Senate as the civil rights bill . We passed it in the House by a good vote the other day . It is very important , not only to the consumers of this country , but to the producers of this country and to the business people of this country . It is a good piece of legislation . It is soundly conceived . I hope that we can get action in the Agriculture Committee of the Senate in a short time . Perhaps as soon as the civil rights bill is out of the way we can pass the food stamp bill . The pay bill is one of the most important pieces of legislation to continued good Government in this country . I have on my desk today a number of resignations from some of the very best men in Government who tell me that they just cannot stay any longer . They have been here 3 years , and they cannot stay any longer at their present salaries . One man said he had had to borrow 16 , 000 , another one said he had had to borrow 19 , 000 , another one 6 , 000 . And they just did not feel they could go on doing that if the pay bill was not going to be passed . I think that we are going to lose some of the best men in the Government . Like sergeants that run the Army , some of the Under Secretaries and Assistant Secretaries and the men who do not get the notoriety but do the hard work from day to day are entitled to a raise . I hope the Congress will consider the bill in both committees although they have taken one vote on it in the House that they can make some adjustments to meet the objections of the Members and pass the pay bill . I think the Medicare bill is an extremely important bill that will provide medical care for our old people , aged people , under social security . I believe that we are close to having enough votes to report that bill from the committee . If we can make adjustments and modifications to get that bill reported and passed and have medicare under social security , it would be a great day for the people of our country . Nearly every home has some father or mother , or uncle or aunt , or some member of their family that finds need for medical care insurance . Too many of them do not have it , and never will have it under the present system we have . I think the poverty bill is very important . All the Cabinet Members have testified on it Secretary McNamara , the Attorney General , the Secretary of Labor , the Secretary of Health , Education , and Welfare , the Secretary of Agriculture . We are all united . We think that it is a comprehensive bill and has very sound principles . It will do a lot to help us with our juvenile delinquency problem . It will take our boys off the streets and out of the alleys and out of the pool rooms . It will make it possible for us to train and educate people for national service that are now being turned back by the draft . We think that bill is soundly conceived and very important . So I would list just those four or five the pay bill , the poverty bill , the Medicare bill , the civil rights bill , the food stamp bill as five I should hope would be passed before the convention . I raised that question with the Pentagon today at lunch , and they tell me they are unaware of any of the material relating to General MacArthur that had not already been published in books prior to the recent revelation . Yes , I would always be concerned about any elector that was not committed to vote for me , if I were a candidate . And I would do my best to convince him of the error of his ways . I do not anticipate , however , that there will be any substantial number that will feel that the future of this country should be placed in the hands of independent electors , but I think most of them will be associated with one of the two regular parties , the Democratic Party and the Republican Party . I gave serious consideration to what my policies should be in connection with primaries many years ago . Generally speaking , there could be an exception , but generally speaking , I think it is unwise for me to interfere in primaries or attempt to influence people in primaries . In connection with the presidential primaries this year , which is much more specific than my previous statement , which applies to all primaries , I gave thought to what my course of conduct should be , and concluded that I would not enter any primaries . I would do the very best job I could as President for all the people up until convention time , and then let the delegates at the convention make their choice freely . Then my conduct would be determined after they made their choice . Thank you , President .<speech_sep>Chairman McCormack , my fellow Americans I accept your nomination . I accept the duty of leading this party to victory this year . And I thank you , I thank you from the bottom of my heart for placing at my side the man that last night you so wisely selected to be the next Vice President of the United States . I know I speak for each of you and all of you when I say he proved himself tonight in that great acceptance speech . And I speak for both of us when I tell you that from Monday on he is going to be available for such speeches in all 50 States We will try to lead you as we were led by that great champion of freedom , the man from Independence , Harry Truman . But the gladness of this high occasion cannot mask the sorrow which shares our hearts . So let us here tonight , each of us , all of us , rededicate ourselves to keeping burning the golden torch of promise which John Fitzgerald Kennedy set aflame . And let none of us stop to rest until we have written into the law of the land all the suggestions that made up the John Fitzgerald Kennedy program . And then let us continue to supplement that program with the kind of laws that he would have us write . Tonight we offer ourselves on our record and by our platform as a party for all Americans , an all American party for all Americans . This prosperous people , this land of reasonable men , has no place for petty partisanship or peevish prejudice . The needs of all can never be met by parties of the few . The needs of all cannot be met by a business party or a labor party , not by a war party or a peace party , not by a southern party or a northern party . Our deeds will meet our needs only if we are served by a party which serves all our people . We are members together of such a party , the Democratic Party of 1964 . We have written a proud record of accomplishments for all Americans . If any ask what we have done , just let them look at what we promised to do . For those promises have become our deeds . And the promises of tonight I can assure you will become the deeds of tomorrow . We are in the midst of the largest and the longest period of peacetime prosperity in our history . And almost every American listening to us tonight has seen the results in his own life . But prosperity for most has not brought prosperity to all . And those who have received the bounty of this land who sit tonight secure in affluence and safe in power must not now turn from the needs of their neighbors . Our party and our Nation will continue to extend the hand of compassion and the hand of affection and love to the old and the sick and the hungry . For who among us dares to betray the command Thou shalt open thine hand unto thy brother , to thy poor , and to thy needy , in thy land . The needs that we seek to fill , the hopes that we seek to realize , are not our needs , our hopes alone . They are the needs and hopes of most of the people . Most Americans want medical care for older citizens . And so do Most Americans want fair and stable prices and decent incomes for our farmers . And so do Most Americans want a decent home in a decent neighborhood for all . And so do Most Americans want an education for every child to the limit of his ability . And so do Most Americans want a job for every man who wants to work . And so do Most Americans want victory in our war against poverty . And so do Most Americans want continually expanding and growing prosperity . And so do These are your goals . These are our goals . These are the goals and will be the achievements of the Democratic Party . These are the goals of this great , rich Nation . These are the goals toward which I will lead , if the American people choose to follow . For 30 years , year by year , step by step , vote by vote , men of both parties have built a solid foundation for our present prosperity . Too many have worked too long and too hard to see this threatened now by policies which promise to undo all that we have done together over all these years . I believe most of the men and women in this hall tonight , and I believe most Americans , understand that to reach our goals in our own land , we must work for peace among all lands . America s cause is still the cause of all mankind . Over the last 4 years the world has begun to respond to a simple American belief the belief that strength and courage and responsibility are the keys to peace . Since 1961 , under the leadership of that great President , John Kennedy , we have carried out the greatest peacetime buildup of national strength of any nation at any time in the history of the world . I report tonight that we have spent 30 billion more on preparing this Nation in the 4 years of the Kennedy administration than would have been spent if we had followed the appropriations of the last year of the previous administration . I report tonight as President of the United States and as Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces on the strength of your country , and I tell you that it is greater than any adversary . I assure you that it is greater than the combined might of all the nations , in all the wars , in all the history of this planet . And I report our superiority is growing . Weapons do not make peace . Men make peace . And peace comes not through strength alone , but through wisdom and patience and restraint . And these qualities under the leadership of President Kennedy brought a treaty banning nuclear tests in the atmosphere . And a hundred other nations in the world joined us . Other agreements were reached and other steps were taken . And their single guide was to lessen the danger to men without increasing the danger to freedom . Their single purpose was peace in the world . And as a result of these policies , the world tonight knows where we stand and our allies know where we stand , too . And our adversaries have learned again that we will never waver in the defense of freedom . The true courage of this nuclear age lies in the quest for peace . There is no place in today s world for weakness . But there is also no place in today s world for recklessness . We cannot act rashly with the nuclear weapons that could destroy us all . The only course is to press with all our mind and all our will to make sure , doubly sure , that these weapons are never really used at all . This is a dangerous and a difficult world in which we live tonight . I promise no easy answers . But I do promise this . I pledge the firmness to defend freedom , the strength to support that firmness , and a constant , patient effort to move the world toward peace instead of war . And here at home one of our greatest responsibilities is to assure fair play for all of our people . Every American has the right to be treated as a person . He should be able to find a job . He should be able to educate his children , he should be able to vote in elections and he should be judged on his merits as a person . Well , this is the fixed policy and the fixed determination of the Democratic Party and the United States of America . So long as I am your President I intend to carry out what the Constitution demands and justice requires equal justice under law for all Americans . We cannot and we will not allow this great purpose to be endangered by reckless acts of violence . Those who break the law those who create disorder whether in the North or the South must be caught and must be brought to justice . And I believe that every man and woman in this room tonight join me in saying that in every part of this country the law must be respected and violence must be stopped . And wherever a local officer seeks help or Federal law is broken , I have pledged and I will use the full resources of the Federal Government . Let no one tell you that he can hold back progress and at the same time keep the peace . This is a false and empty promise . To stand in the way of orderly progress is to encourage violence . And I say tonight to those who wish us well and to those who wish us ill the growing forces in this country are the forces of common human decency , and not the forces of bigotry and fear and smear . Our problems are many and are great . But our opportunities are even greater . And let me make this clear . I ask the American people for a mandate not to preside over a finished program not just to keep things going , I ask the American people for a mandate to begin . This Nation this generation in this hour , has man s first chance to build the Great Society a place where the meaning of man s life matches the marvels of man s labor . We seek a nation where every man can find reward in work and satisfaction in the use of his talents . We seek a nation where every man can seek knowledge , and touch beauty , and rejoice in the closeness of family and community . We seek a nation where every man can , in the words of our oldest promise , follow the pursuit of happiness not just security but achievements and excellence and fulfillment of the spirit . So let us join together in this great task . Will you join me tonight in rebuilding our cities to make them a decent place for our children to live in Will you join me tonight in starting a program that will protect the beauty of our land and the air that we breathe Will not you join me tonight in starting a program that will give every child education of the highest quality that he can take So let us join together in giving every American the fullest life which he can hope for . For the ultimate test of our civilization , the ultimate test of our faithfulness to our past , is not in our goods and is not in our guns . It is in the quality the quality of our people s lives and in the men and women that we produce . This goal can be ours . We have the resources we have the knowledge . But tonight we must seek the courage . Because tonight the contest is the same that we have faced at every turning point in history . It is not between liberals and conservatives , it is not between party and party , or platform and platform . It is between courage and timidity . It is between those who have vision and those who see what can be , and those who want only to maintain the status quo . It is between those who welcome the future and those who turn away from its promises . This is the true cause of freedom . The man who is hungry , who cannot find work or educate his children , who is bowed by want that man is not fully free . For more than 30 years , from social security to the war against poverty , we have diligently worked to enlarge the freedom of man . And as a result , Americans tonight are freer to live as they want to live , to . pursue their ambitions , to meet their desires , to raise their families than at any time in all of our glorious history . And every American knows in his heart that this is right . I am determined in all the time that is mine to use all the talents that I have for bringing this great , lovable land , this great Nation of ours , together together in greater unity in pursuit of this common purpose . I truly believe that we someday will see an America that knows no North or South , no East or West an America that is undivided by creed or color , and untorn by suspicion or strife . The Founding Fathers dreamed America before it was . The pioneers dreamed of great cities on the wilderness that they crossed . Our tomorrow is on its way . It can be a shape of darkness or it can be a thing of beauty . The choice is ours , it is yours , for it will be the dream that we dare to dream . I know what kind of a dream Franklin Delano Roosevelt and Harry Truman and John Kennedy would dream if they were here tonight . And I think that I know what kind of a dream you want to dream . Tonight we of the Democratic Party confidently go before the people offering answers , not retreat offering unity , not division offering hope , not fear or smear . We do offer the people a choice , a choice of continuing on the courageous and the compassionate course that has made this Nation the strongest and the freest and the most prosperous and the most peaceful nation in the history of mankind . To those who have sought to divide us they have only helped to unite us . To those who would provoke us we have turned the other cheek . So as we conclude our labors , let us tomorrow turn to our new task . Let us be on our way Chairman McCormack , my fellow Americans I accept your nomination . I accept the duty of leading this party to victory this year . And I thank you , I thank you from the bottom of my heart for placing at my side the man that last night you so wisely selected to be the next Vice President of the United States . I know I speak for each of you and all of you when I say he proved himself tonight in that great acceptance speech . And I speak for both of us when I tell you that from Monday on he is going to be available for such speeches in all 50 States We will try to lead you as we were led by that great champion of freedom , the man from Independence , Harry Truman . But the gladness of this high occasion cannot mask the sorrow which shares our hearts . So let us here tonight , each of us , all of us , rededicate ourselves to keeping burning the golden torch of promise which John Fitzgerald Kennedy set aflame . And let none of us stop to rest until we have written into the law of the land all the suggestions that made up the John Fitzgerald Kennedy program . And then let us continue to supplement that program with the kind of laws that he would have us write . Tonight we offer ourselves on our record and by our platform as a party for all Americans , an all American party for all Americans . This prosperous people , this land of reasonable men , has no place for petty partisanship or peevish prejudice . The needs of all can never be met by parties of the few . The needs of all cannot be met by a business party or a labor party , not by a war party or a peace party , not by a southern party or a northern party . Our deeds will meet our needs only if we are served by a party which serves all our people . We are members together of such a party , the Democratic Party of 1964 . We have written a proud record of accomplishments for all Americans . If any ask what we have done , just let them look at what we promised to do . For those promises have become our deeds . And the promises of tonight I can assure you will become the deeds of tomorrow . We are in the midst of the largest and the longest period of peacetime prosperity in our history . And almost every American listening to us tonight has seen the results in his own life . But prosperity for most has not brought prosperity to all . And those who have received the bounty of this land who sit tonight secure in affluence and safe in power must not now turn from the needs of their neighbors . Our party and our Nation will continue to extend the hand of compassion and the hand of affection and love to the old and the sick and the hungry . For who among us dares to betray the command Thou shalt open thine hand unto thy brother , to thy poor , and to thy needy , in thy land . The needs that we seek to fill , the hopes that we seek to realize , are not our needs , our hopes alone . They are the needs and hopes of most of the people . Most Americans want medical care for older citizens . And so do Most Americans want fair and stable prices and decent incomes for our farmers . And so do Most Americans want a decent home in a decent neighborhood for all . And so do Most Americans want an education for every child to the limit of his ability . And so do Most Americans want a job for every man who wants to work . And so do Most Americans want victory in our war against poverty . And so do Most Americans want continually expanding and growing prosperity . And so do These are your goals . These are our goals . These are the goals and will be the achievements of the Democratic Party . These are the goals of this great , rich Nation . These are the goals toward which I will lead , if the American people choose to follow . For 30 years , year by year , step by step , vote by vote , men of both parties have built a solid foundation for our present prosperity . Too many have worked too long and too hard to see this threatened now by policies which promise to undo all that we have done together over all these years . I believe most of the men and women in this hall tonight , and I believe most Americans , understand that to reach our goals in our own land , we must work for peace among all lands . America s cause is still the cause of all mankind . Over the last 4 years the world has begun to respond to a simple American belief the belief that strength and courage and responsibility are the keys to peace . Since 1961 , under the leadership of that great President , John Kennedy , we have carried out the greatest peacetime buildup of national strength of any nation at any time in the history of the world . I report tonight that we have spent 30 billion more on preparing this Nation in the 4 years of the Kennedy administration than would have been spent if we had followed the appropriations of the last year of the previous administration . I report tonight as President of the United States and as Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces on the strength of your country , and I tell you that it is greater than any adversary . I assure you that it is greater than the combined might of all the nations , in all the wars , in all the history of this planet . And I report our superiority is growing . Weapons do not make peace . Men make peace . And peace comes not through strength alone , but through wisdom and patience and restraint . And these qualities under the leadership of President Kennedy brought a treaty banning nuclear tests in the atmosphere . And a hundred other nations in the world joined us . Other agreements were reached and other steps were taken . And their single guide was to lessen the danger to men without increasing the danger to freedom . Their single purpose was peace in the world . And as a result of these policies , the world tonight knows where we stand and our allies know where we stand , too . And our adversaries have learned again that we will never waver in the defense of freedom . The true courage of this nuclear age lies in the quest for peace . There is no place in today s world for weakness . But there is also no place in today s world for recklessness . We cannot act rashly with the nuclear weapons that could destroy us all . The only course is to press with all our mind and all our will to make sure , doubly sure , that these weapons are never really used at all . This is a dangerous and a difficult world in which we live tonight . I promise no easy answers . But I do promise this . I pledge the firmness to defend freedom , the strength to support that firmness , and a constant , patient effort to move the world toward peace instead of war . And here at home one of our greatest responsibilities is to assure fair play for all of our people . Every American has the right to be treated as a person . He should be able to find a job . He should be able to educate his children , he should be able to vote in elections and he should be judged on his merits as a person . Well , this is the fixed policy and the fixed determination of the Democratic Party and the United States of America . So long as I am your President I intend to carry out what the Constitution demands and justice requires equal justice under law for all Americans . We cannot and we will not allow this great purpose to be endangered by reckless acts of violence . Those who break the law those who create disorder whether in the North or the South must be caught and must be brought to justice . And I believe that every man and woman in this room tonight join me in saying that in every part of this country the law must be respected and violence must be stopped . And wherever a local officer seeks help or Federal law is broken , I have pledged and I will use the full resources of the Federal Government . Let no one tell you that he can hold back progress and at the same time keep the peace . This is a false and empty promise . To stand in the way of orderly progress is to encourage violence . And I say tonight to those who wish us well and to those who wish us ill the growing forces in this country are the forces of common human decency , and not the forces of bigotry and fear and smear . Our problems are many and are great . But our opportunities are even greater . And let me make this clear . I ask the American people for a mandate not to preside over a finished program not just to keep things going , I ask the American people for a mandate to begin . This Nation this generation in this hour , has man s first chance to build the Great Society a place where the meaning of man s life matches the marvels of man s labor . We seek a nation where every man can find reward in work and satisfaction in the use of his talents . We seek a nation where every man can seek knowledge , and touch beauty , and rejoice in the closeness of family and community . We seek a nation where every man can , in the words of our oldest promise , follow the pursuit of happiness not just security but achievements and excellence and fulfillment of the spirit . So let us join together in this great task . Will you join me tonight in rebuilding our cities to make them a decent place for our children to live in Will you join me tonight in starting a program that will protect the beauty of our land and the air that we breathe Will not you join me tonight in starting a program that will give every child education of the highest quality that he can take So let us join together in giving every American the fullest life which he can hope for . For the ultimate test of our civilization , the ultimate test of our faithfulness to our past , is not in our goods and is not in our guns . It is in the quality the quality of our people s lives and in the men and women that we produce . This goal can be ours . We have the resources we have the knowledge . But tonight we must seek the courage . Because tonight the contest is the same that we have faced at every turning point in history . It is not between liberals and conservatives , it is not between party and party , or platform and platform . It is between courage and timidity . It is between those who have vision and those who see what can be , and those who want only to maintain the status quo . It is between those who welcome the future and those who turn away from its promises . This is the true cause of freedom . The man who is hungry , who cannot find work or educate his children , who is bowed by want that man is not fully free . For more than 30 years , from social security to the war against poverty , we have diligently worked to enlarge the freedom of man . And as a result , Americans tonight are freer to live as they want to live , to . pursue their ambitions , to meet their desires , to raise their families than at any time in all of our glorious history . And every American knows in his heart that this is right . I am determined in all the time that is mine to use all the talents that I have for bringing this great , lovable land , this great Nation of ours , together together in greater unity in pursuit of this common purpose . I truly believe that we someday will see an America that knows no North or South , no East or West an America that is undivided by creed or color , and untorn by suspicion or strife . The Founding Fathers dreamed America before it was . The pioneers dreamed of great cities on the wilderness that they crossed . Our tomorrow is on its way . It can be a shape of darkness or it can be a thing of beauty . The choice is ours , it is yours , for it will be the dream that we dare to dream . I know what kind of a dream Franklin Delano Roosevelt and Harry Truman and John Kennedy would dream if they were here tonight . And I think that I know what kind of a dream you want to dream . Tonight we of the Democratic Party confidently go before the people offering answers , not retreat offering unity , not division offering hope , not fear or smear . We do offer the people a choice , a choice of continuing on the courageous and the compassionate course that has made this Nation the strongest and the freest and the most prosperous and the most peaceful nation in the history of mankind . To those who have sought to divide us they have only helped to unite us . To those who would provoke us we have turned the other cheek . So as we conclude our labors , let us tomorrow turn to our new task . Let us be on our way<speech_sep>My fellow countrymen On this occasion the oath I have taken before you and before God is not mine alone , but ours together . We are one nation and one people . Our fate as a nation and our future as a people rest not upon one citizen but upon all citizens . That is the majesty and the meaning of this moment . For every generation there is a destiny . For some , history decides . For this generation the choice must be our own . Even now , a rocket moves toward Mars . It reminds us that the world will not be the same for our children , or even for ourselves in a short span of years . The next man to stand here will look out on a scene that is different from our own . Ours is a time of change rapid and fantastic change bearing the secrets of nature , multiplying the nations , placing in uncertain hands new weapons for mastery and destruction , shaking old values and uprooting old ways . Our destiny in the midst of change will rest on the unchanged character of our people and on their faith . They came here the exile and the stranger , brave but frightened to find a place where a man could be his own man . They made a covenant with this land . Conceived in justice , written in liberty , bound in union , it was meant one day to inspire the hopes of all mankind . And it binds us still . If we keep its terms we shall flourish . First , justice was the promise that all who made the journey would share in the fruits of the land . In a land of great wealth , families must not live in hopeless poverty . In a land rich in harvest , children just must not go hungry . In a land of healing miracles , neighbors must not suffer and die untended . In a great land of learning and scholars , young people must be taught to read and write . For more than 30 years that I have served this Nation I have believed that this injustice to our people , this waste of our resources , was our real enemy . For 30 years or more , with the resources I have had , I have vigilantly fought against it . I have learned and I know that it will not surrender easily . But change has given us new weapons . Before this generation of Americans is finished , this enemy will not only retreat , it will be conquered . Justice requires us to remember when any citizen denies his fellow , saying His color is not mine or his beliefs are strange and different , in that moment he betrays America , though his forebears created this Nation . Liberty was the second article of our covenant . It was self government . It was our Bill of Rights . But it was more . America would be a place where each man could be proud to be himself stretching his talents , rejoicing in his work , important in the life of his neighbors and his nation . This has become more difficult in a world where change and growth seem to tower beyond the control and even the judgment of men . We must work to provide the knowledge and the surroundings which can enlarge the possibilities of every citizen . The American covenant called on us to help show the way for the liberation of man . And that is today our goal . Thus , if as a nation , there is much outside our control , as a people no stranger is outside our hope . Change has brought new meaning to that old mission . We can never again stand aside , prideful in isolation . Terrific dangers and troubles that we once called foreign now constantly live among us . If American lives must end , and American treasure be spilled , in countries that we barely know , then that is the price that change has demanded of conviction and of our enduring covenant . Think of our world as it looks from that rocket that is heading toward Mars . It is like a child s globe , hanging in space , the continent stuck to its side like colored maps . We are all fellow passengers on a dot of earth . And each of us , in the span of time , has really only a moment among our companions . How incredible it is that in this fragile existence we should hate and destroy one another . There are possibilities enough for all who will abandon mastery over others to pursue mastery over nature . There is world enough for all to seek their happiness in their own way . Our Nation s course is abundantly clear . We aspire to nothing that belongs to others . We seek no dominion over our fellow man , but man s dominion over tyranny and misery . But more is required . Men want to be part of a common enterprise , a cause greater than themselves . And each of us must find a way to advance the purpose of the Nation , thus finding new purpose for ourselves . Without this , we will simply become a nation of strangers . The third article is union . To those who were small and few against the wilderness , the success of liberty demanded the strength of union . Two centuries of change have made this true again . No longer need capitalist and worker , farmer and clerk , city and countryside , struggle to divide our bounty . By working shoulder to shoulder together we can increase the bounty of all . We have discovered that every child who learns , and every man who finds work , and every sick body that is made whole like a candle added to an altar brightens the hope of all the faithful . So let us reject any among us who seek to reopen old wounds and rekindle old hatreds . They stand in the way of a seeking nation . Let us now join reason to faith and action to experience , to transform our unity of interest into a unity of purpose . For the hour and the day and the time are here to achieve progress without strife , to achieve change without hatred not without difference of opinion but without the deep and abiding divisions which scar the union for generations . Under this covenant of justice , liberty , and union we have become a nation prosperous , great , and mighty . And we have kept our freedom . But we have no promise from God that our greatness will endure . We have been allowed by Him to seek greatness with the sweat of our hands and the strength of our spirit . I do not believe that the Great Society is the ordered , changeless , and sterile battalion of the ants . It is the excitement of becoming always becoming , trying , probing , falling , resting , and trying again but always trying and always gaining . In each generation , with toil and tears , we have had to earn our heritage again . If we fail now then we will have forgotten in abundance what we learned in hardship that democracy rests on faith , that freedom asks more than it gives , and the judgment of God is harshest on those who are most favored . If we succeed it will not be because of what we have , but it will be because of what we are not because of what we own , but rather because of what we believe . For we are a nation of believers . Underneath the clamor of building and the rush of our day s pursuits , we are believers in justice and liberty and in our own union . We believe that every man must some day be free . And we believe in ourselves . And that is the mistake that our enemies have always made . In my lifetime , in depression and in war they have awaited our defeat . Each time , from the secret places of the American heart , came forth the faith that they could not see or that they could not even imagine . And it brought us victory . And it will again . For this is what America is all about . It is the uncrossed desert and the unclimbed ridge . It is the star that is not reached and the harvest that is sleeping in the unplowed ground . Is our world gone We say farewell . Is a new world coming We welcome it , and we will bend it to the hopes of man . And to these trusted public servants and to my family , and those close friends of mine who have followed me down a long winding road , and to all the people of this Union and the world , I will repeat today what I said on that sorrowful day in November last year I will lead and I will do the best I can . But you , you must look within your own hearts to the old promises and to the old dreams . They will lead you best of all . For myself , I ask only in the words of an ancient leader Give me now wisdom and knowledge , that I may go out and come in before this people for who can judge this thy people , that is so great<speech_sep>Garland , Senator Brewster , Senator Tydings , Members of the congressional delegation , members of the faculty of Johns Hopkins , student body , my fellow Americans . Last week 17 nations sent their views to some two dozen countries having an interest in southeast Asia . We are joining those 17 countriesand stating our American policy tonight which we believe will contribute toward peace in this area of the world . I have come here to review once again with my own people the views of the American Government . Tonight Americans and Asians are dying for a world where each people may choose its own path to change . This is the principle for which our ancestors fought in the valleys of Pennsylvania . It is the principle for which our sons fight tonight in the jungles of Viet Nam . Viet Nam is far away from this quiet campus . We have no territory there , nor do we seek any . The war is dirty and brutal and difficult . And some 400 young men , born into an America that is bursting with opportunity and promise , have ended their lives on Viet Nam s steaming soil . Why must we take this painful road Why must this Nation hazard its ease , and its interest , and its power for the sake of a people so far away We fight because we must fight if we are to live in a world where every country can shape its own destiny . And only in such a world will our own freedom be finally secure . This kind of world will never be built by bombs or bullets . Yet the infirmities of man are such that force must often precede reason , and the waste of war , the works of peace . We wish that this were not so . But we must deal with the world as it is , if it is ever to be as we wish . The world as it is in Asia is not a serene or peaceful place . The first reality is that North Viet Nam has attacked the independent nation of South Viet Nam . Its object is total conquest . Of course , some of the people of South Viet Nam are participating in attack on their own government . But trained men and supplies , orders and arms , flow in a constant stream from north to south . This support is the heartbeat of the war . And it is a war of unparalleled brutality . Simple farmers are the targets of assassination and kidnapping . Women and children are strangled in the night because their men are loyal to their government . And help less villages are ravaged by sneak attacks . Large scale raids are conducted on towns , and terror strikes in the heart of cities . The confused nature of this conflict cannot mask the fact that it is the new face of an old enemy . Over this war and all Asia is another reality the deepening shadow of Communist China . The rulers in Hanoi are urged on by Peking . This is a regime which has destroyed freedom in Tibet , which has attacked India , and has been condemned by the United Nations for aggression in Korea . It is a nation which is helping the forces of violence in almost every continent . The contest in Viet Nam is part of a wider pattern of aggressive purposes . Why are these realities our concern Why are we in South Viet Nam We are there because we have a promise to keep . Since 1954 every American President has offered support to the people of South Viet Nam . We have helped to build , and we have helped to defend . Thus , over many years , we have made a national pledge to he p South Viet Nam defend its independence . And I intend to keep that promise . To dishonor that pledge , to abandon this small and brave nation to its enemies , and to the terror that must follow , would be an unforgivable wrong . We are also there to strengthen world order . Around the globe , from Berlin to Thailand , are people whose well being rests , in part , on the belief that they can count on us if they are attacked . To leave Viet Nam to its fate would shake the confidence of all these people in the value of an American commitment and in the value of America s word . The result would be increased unrest and instability , and even wider war . We are also there because there are great stakes in the balance . Let no one think for a moment that retreat from Viet Nam would bring an end to conflict . The battle would be renewed in one country and then another . The central lesson of our time is that the appetite of aggression is never satisfied . To withdraw from one battlefield means only to prepare for the next . We must say in southeast Asia as we did in Europe in the words of the Bible Hitherto shalt thou come , but no further . There are those who say that all our effort there will be futile that China s power is such that it is bound to dominate all southeast Asia . But there is no end to that argument until all of the nations of Asia are swallowed up . There are those who wonder why we have a responsibility there . Well , we have it there for the same reason that we have a responsibility for the defense of Europe . World War II was fought in both Europe and Asia , and when it ended we found ourselves with continued responsibility for the defense of freedom . Our objective is the independence of South Viet Nam , and its freedom from attack . We want nothing for ourselves only that the people of South Viet Nam be allowed to guide their own country in their own way . We will do everything necessary to reach that objective . And we will do only what is absolutely necessary . In recent months attacks on South Viet Nam were stepped up . Thus , it became necessary for us to increase our response and to make attacks by air . This is not a change of purpose . It is a change in what we believe that purpose requires . We do this in order to slow down aggression . We do this to increase the confidence of the brave people of South Viet Nam who have bravely borne this brutal battle for so many years with so many casualties . And we do this to convince the leaders of North Viet Nam and all who seek to share their conquest of a very simple fact We will not be defeated . We will not grow tired . We will not withdraw , either openly or under the cloak of a meaningless agreement . We know that air attacks alone will not accomplish all of these purposes . But it is our best and prayerful judgment that they are a necessary part of the surest road to peace . We hope that peace will come swiftly . But that is in the hands of others besides ourselves . And we must be prepared for a long continued conflict . It will require patience as well as bravery , the will to endure as well as the will to resist . I wish it were possible to convince others with words of what we now find it necessary to say with guns and planes Armed hostility is futile . Our resources are equal to any challenge . Because we fight for values and we fight for principles , rather than territory or colonies , our patience and our determination are unending . Once this is clear , then it should also be clear that the only path for reasonable men is the path of peaceful settlement . Such peace demands an independent South Viet Nam securely guaranteed and able to shape its own relationships to all others free from outside interference tied to no alliance a military base for no other country . These are the essentials of any final settlement . We will never be second in the search for such a peaceful settlement in Viet Nam . There may be many ways to this kind of peace in discussion or negotiation with the governments concerned in large groups or in small ones in the reaffirmation of old agreements or their strengthening with new ones . We have stated this position over and over again , fifty times and more , to friend and foe alike . And we remain ready , with this purpose , for unconditional discussions . And until that bright and necessary day of peace we will try to keep conflict from spreading . We have no desire to see thousands die in battle Asians or Americans . We have no desire to devastate that which the people of North Viet Nam have built with toil and sacrifice . We will use our power with restraint and with all the wisdom that we can command . But we will use it . This war , like most wars , is filled with terrible irony . For what do the people of North Viet Nam want They want what their neighbors also desire food for their hunger health for their bodies a chance to learn progress for their country and an end to the bondage of material misery . And they would find all these things far more readily in peaceful association with others than in the endless course of battle . These countries of southeast Asia are homes for millions of impoverished people . Each day these people rise at dawn and struggle through until the night to wrestle existence from the soil . They are often wracked by disease , plagued by hunger , and death comes at the early age of 40 . Stability and peace do not come easily in such a land . Neither independence nor human dignity will ever be won , though , by arms alone . It also requires the work of peace . The American people have helped generously in times past in these works . Now there must be a much more massive effort to improve the life of man in that conflict torn corner of our world . The first step is for the countries of southeast Asia to associate themselves in a greatly expanded cooperative effort for development . We would hope that North Viet Nam would take its place in the common effort just as soon as peaceful cooperation is possible . The United Nations is already actively engaged in development in this area . As far back as 1961 I conferred with our authorities in Viet Nam in connection with their work there . And I would hope tonight that the Secretary General of the United Nations could use the prestige of his great office , and his deep knowledge of Asia , to initiate , as soon as possible , with the countries of that area , a plan for cooperation in increased development . For our part I will ask the Congress to join in a billion dollar American investment in this effort as soon as it is underway . And I would hope that all other industrialized countries , including the Soviet Union , will join in this effort to replace despair with hope , and terror with progress . The task is nothing less than to enrich the hopes and the existence of more than a hundred million people . And there is much to be done . The vast Mekong River can provide food and water and power on a scale to dwarf even our own TVA . The wonders of modern medicine can be spread through villages where thousands die every year from lack of care . Schools can be established to train people in the skills that are needed to manage the process of development . And these objectives , and more , are within the reach of a cooperative and determined effort . I also intend to expand and speed up a program to make available our farm surpluses to assist in feeding and clothing the needy in Asia . We should not allow people to go hungry and wear rags while our own warehouses overflow with an abundance of wheat and corn , rice and cotton . So I will very shortly name a special team of outstanding , patriotic , distinguished Americans to inaugurate our participation in these programs . This team will be headed by Eugene Black , the very able former President of the World Bank . In areas that are still ripped by conflict , of course development will not be easy . Peace will be necessary for final success . But we cannot and must not wait for peace to begin this job . This will be a disorderly planet for a long time . In Asia , as elsewhere , the forces of the modern world are shaking old ways and uprooting ancient civilizations . There will be turbulence and struggle and even violence . Great social change as we see in our own country now does not always come without conflict . We must also expect that nations will on occasion be in dispute with us . It may be because we are rich , or powerful or because we have made some mistakes or because they honestly fear our intentions . However , no nation need ever fear that we desire their land , or to impose our will , or to dictate their institutions . But we will always oppose the effort of one nation to conquer another nation . We will do this because our own security is at stake . But there is more to it than that . For our generation has a dream . It is a very old dream . But we have the power and now we have the opportunity to make that dream come true . For centuries nations have struggled among each other . But we dream of a world where disputes are settled by law and reason . And we will try to make it so . For most of history men have hated and killed one another in battle . But we dream of an end to war . And we will try to make it so . For all existence most men have lived in poverty , threatened by hunger . But we dream of a world where all are fed and charged with hope . And we will help to make it so . The ordinary men and women of North Viet Nam and South Viet Nam of China and India of Russia and America are brave people . They are filled with the same proportions of hate and fear , of love and hope . Most of them want the same things for themselves and their families . Most of them do not want their sons to ever die in battle , or to see their homes , or the homes of others , destroyed . Well , this can be their world yet . Man now has the knowledge always before denied to make this planet serve the real needs of the people who live on it . I know this will not be easy . I know how difficult it is for reason to guide passion , and love to master hate . The complexities of this world do not bow easily to pure and consistent answers . But the simple truths are there just the same . We must all try to follow them as best we can . We often say how impressive power is . But I do not find it impressive at all . The guns and the bombs , the rockets and the warships , are all symbols of human failure . They are necessary symbols . They protect what we cherish . But they are witness to human folly . A dam built across a great river is impressive . In the countryside where I was born , and where I live , I have seen the night illuminated , and the kitchens warmed , and the homes heated , where once the cheerless night and the ceaseless cold held sway . And all this happened because electricity came to our area along the humming wires of the REElectrification of the countryside yes , that , too , is impressive . A rich harvest in a hungry land is impressive . The sight of healthy children in a classroom is impressive . These not mighty arms are the achievements which the American Nation believes to be impressive . And , if we are steadfast , the time may come when all other nations will also find it so . Every night before I turn out the lights to sleep I ask myself this question Have I done everything that I can do to unite this country Have I done everything I can to help unite the world , to try to bring peace and hope to all the peoples of the world Have I done enough Ask yourselves that question in your homes and in this hall tonight . Have we , each of us , all done all we could Have we done enough We may well be living in the time foretold many years ago when it was said I call heaven and earth to record this day against you , that I have set before you life and death , blessing and cursing therefore choose life , that both thou and thy seed may live . This generation of the world must choose destroy or build , kill or aid , hate or understand . We can do all these things on a scale never dreamed of before . Well , we will choose life . In so doing we will prevail over the enemies within man , and over the natural enemies of all mankind . To Eisenhower and Garland , and this great institution , Johns Hopkins , I thank you for this opportunity to convey my thoughts to you and to the American people . Good night . Garland , Senator Brewster , Senator Tydings , Members of the congressional delegation , members of the faculty of Johns Hopkins , student body , my fellow Americans Last week , 17 nations sent their views to some two dozen countries having an interest in southeast Asia . We are joining those 17 countries and stating our American policy tonight which we believe will contribute toward peace in this area of the world . I have come here to review once again with my own people the views of the American Government . Tonight Americans and Asians are dying for a world where each people may choose its own path to change . This is the principle for which our ancestors fought in the valleys of Pennsylvania . It is the principle for which our sons fight tonight in the jungles of Viet Nam . Viet Nam is far away from this quiet campus . We have no territory there , nor do we seek any . The war is dirty and brutal and difficult . And some 400 young men , born into an America that is bursting with opportunity and promise , have ended their lives on Viet Nam s steaming soil . Why must we take this painful road Why must this Nation hazard its ease , and its interest , and its power for the sake of a people so far away We fight because we must fight if we are to live in a world where every country can shape its own destiny . And only in such a world will our own freedom be finally secure . This kind of world will never be built by bombs or bullets . Yet the infirmities of man are such that force must often precede reason , and the waste of war , the works of peace . We wish that this were not so . But we must deal with the world as it is , if it is ever to be as we wish . The world as it is in Asia is not a serene or peaceful place . The first reality is that North Viet Nam has attacked the independent nation of South Viet Nam . Its object is total conquest . Of course , some of the people of South Viet Nam are participating in attack on their own government . But trained men and supplies , orders and arms , flow in a constant stream from north to south . This support is the heartbeat of the war . And it is a war of unparalleled brutality . Simple farmers are the targets of assassination and kidnapping . Women and children are strangled in the night because their men are loyal to their government . And helpless villages are ravaged by sneak attacks . Large scale raids are conducted on towns , and terror strikes in the heart of cities . The confused nature of this conflict cannot mask the fact that it is the new face of an old enemy . Over this war and all Asia is another reality the deepening shadow of Communist China . The rulers in Hanoi are urged on by Peking . This is a regime which has destroyed freedom in Tibet , which has attacked India , and has been condemned by the United Nations for aggression in Korea . It is a nation which is helping the forces of violence in almost every continent . The contest in Viet Nam is part of a wider pattern of aggressive purposes . Why are these realities our concern Why are we in South Viet Nam We are there because we have a promise to keep . Since 1954 , every American President has offered support to the people of South Viet Nam . We have helped to build , and we have helped to defend . Thus , over many years , we have made a national pledge to he p South Viet Nam defend its independence . And I intend to keep that promise . To dishonor that pledge , to abandon this small and brave nation to its enemies , and to the terror that must follow , would be an unforgivable wrong . We are also there to strengthen world order . Around the globe , from Berlin to Thailand , are people whose well being rests , in part , on the belief that they can count on us if they are attacked . To leave Viet Nam to its fate would shake the confidence of all these people in the value of an American commitment and in the value of America s word . The result would be increased unrest and instability , and even wider war . We are also there because there are great stakes in the balance . Let no one think for a moment that retreat from Viet Nam would bring an end to conflict . The battle would be renewed in one country and then another . The central lesson of our time is that the appetite of aggression is never satisfied . To withdraw from one battlefield means only to prepare for the next . We must say in southeast Asia as we did in Europe in the words of the Bible Hitherto shalt thou come , but no further . There are those who say that all our effort there will be futile that China s power is such that it is bound to dominate all southeast Asia . But there is no end to that argument until all of the nations of Asia are swallowed up . There are those who wonder why we have a responsibility there . Well , we have it there for the same reason that we have a responsibility for the defense of Europe . World War II was fought in both Europe and Asia , and when it ended we found ourselves with continued responsibility for the defense of freedom . Our objective is the independence of South Viet Nam , and its freedom from attack . We want nothing for ourselves only that the people of South Viet Nam be allowed to guide their own country in their own way . We will do everything necessary to reach that objective . And we will do only what is absolutely necessary . In recent months attacks on South Viet Nam were stepped up . Thus , it became necessary for us to increase our response and to make attacks by air . This is not a change of purpose . It is a change in what we believe that purpose requires . We do this in order to slow down aggression . We do this to increase the confidence of the brave people of South Viet Nam who have bravely borne this brutal battle for so many years with so many casualties . And we do this to convince the leaders of North Viet Nam and all who seek to share their conquest of a very simple fact We will not be defeated . We will not grow tired . We will not withdraw , either openly or under the cloak of a meaningless agreement . We know that air attacks alone will not accomplish all of these purposes . But it is our best and prayerful judgment that they are a necessary part of the surest road to peace . We hope that peace will come swiftly . But that is in the hands of others besides ourselves . And we must be prepared for a long continued conflict . It will require patience as well as bravery , the will to endure as well as the will to resist . I wish it were possible to convince others with words of what we now find it necessary to say with guns and planes Armed hostility is futile . Our resources are equal to any challenge . Because we fight for values and we fight for principles , rather than territory or colonies , our patience and our determination are unending . Once this is clear , then it should also be clear that the only path for reasonable men is the path of peaceful settlement . Such peace demands an independent South Viet Nam securely guaranteed and able to shape its own relationships to all others free from outside interference tied to no alliance a military base for no other country . These are the essentials of any final settlement . We will never be second in the search for such a peaceful settlement in Viet Nam . There may be many ways to this kind of peace in discussion or negotiation with the governments concerned in large groups or in small ones in the reaffirmation of old agreements or their strengthening with new ones . We have stated this position over and over again , fifty times and more , to friend and foe alike . And we remain ready , with this purpose , for unconditional discussions . And until that bright and necessary day of peace we will try to keep conflict from spreading . We have no desire to see thousands die in battle Asians or Americans . We have no desire to devastate that which the people of North Viet Nam have built with toil and sacrifice . We will use our power with restraint and with all the wisdom that we can command . But we will use it . This war , like most wars , is filled with terrible irony . For what do the people of North Viet Nam want They want what their neighbors also desire food for their hunger health for their bodies a chance to learn progress for their country and an end to the bondage of material misery . And they would find all these things far more readily in peaceful association with others than in the endless course of battle . These countries of southeast Asia are homes for millions of impoverished people . Each day these people rise at dawn and struggle through until the night to wrestle existence from the soil . They are often wracked by disease , plagued by hunger , and death comes at the early age of 40 . Stability and peace do not come easily in such a land . Neither independence nor human dignity will ever be won , though , by arms alone . It also requires the work of peace . The American people have helped generously in times past in these works . Now there must be a much more massive effort to improve the life of man in that conflict torn corner of our world . The first step is for the countries of southeast Asia to associate themselves in a greatly expanded cooperative effort for development . We would hope that North Viet Nam would take its place in the common effort just as soon as peaceful cooperation is possible . The United Nations is already actively engaged in development in this area . As far back as 1961 I conferred with our authorities in Viet Nam in connection with their work there . And I would hope tonight that the Secretary General of the United Nations could use the prestige of his great office , and his deep knowledge of Asia , to initiate , as soon as possible , with the countries of that area , a plan for cooperation in increased development . For our part I will ask the Congress to join in a billion dollar American investment in this effort as soon as it is underway . And I would hope that all other industrialized countries , including the Soviet Union , will join in this effort to replace despair with hope , and terror with progress . The task is nothing less than to enrich the hopes and the existence of more than a hundred million people . And there is much to be done . The vast Mekong River can provide food and water and power on a scale to dwarf even our own TVA . The wonders of modern medicine can be spread through villages where thousands die every year from lack of care . Schools can be established to train people in the skills that are needed to manage the process of development . And these objectives , and more , are within the reach of a cooperative and determined effort . I also intend to expand and speed up a program to make available our farm surpluses to assist in feeding and clothing the needy in Asia . We should not allow people to go hungry and wear rags while our own warehouses overflow with an abundance of wheat and corn , rice and cotton . So I will very shortly name a special team of outstanding , patriotic , distinguished Americans to inaugurate our participation in these programs . This team will be headed by Eugene Black , the very able former President of the World Bank . In areas that are still ripped by conflict , of course development will not be easy . Peace will be necessary for final success . But we cannot and must not wait for peace to begin this job . This will be a disorderly planet for a long time . In Asia , as elsewhere , the forces of the modern world are shaking old ways and uprooting ancient civilizations . There will be turbulence and struggle and even violence . Great social change as we see in our own country now does not always come without conflict . We must also expect that nations will on occasion be in dispute with us . It may be because we are rich , or powerful or because we have made some mistakes or because they honestly fear our intentions . However , no nation need ever fear that we desire their land , or to impose our will , or to dictate their institutions . But we will always oppose the effort of one nation to conquer another nation . We will do this because our own security is at stake . But there is more to it than that . For our generation has a dream . It is a very old dream . But we have the power and now we have the opportunity to make that dream come true . For centuries nations have struggled among each other . But we dream of a world where disputes are settled by law and reason . And we will try to make it so . For most of history men have hated and killed one another in battle . But we dream of an end to war . And we will try to make it so . For all existence most men have lived in poverty , threatened by hunger . But we dream of a world where all are fed and charged with hope . And we will help to make it so . The ordinary men and women of North Viet Nam and South Viet Nam of China and India of Russia and America are brave people . They are filled with the same proportions of hate and fear , of love and hope . Most of them want the same things for themselves and their families . Most of them do not want their sons to ever die in battle , or to see their homes , or the homes of others , destroyed . Well , this can be their world yet . Man now has the knowledge always before denied to make this planet serve the real needs of the people who live on it . I know this will not be easy . I know how difficult it is for reason to guide passion , and love to master hate . The complexities of this world do not bow easily to pure and consistent answers . But the simple truths are there just the same . We must all try to follow them as best we can . We often say how impressive power is . But I do not find it impressive at all . The guns and the bombs , the rockets and the warships , are all symbols of human failure . They are necessary symbols . They protect what we cherish . But they are witness to human folly . A dam built across a great river is impressive . In the countryside where I was born , and where I live , I have seen the night illuminated , and the kitchens warmed , and the homes heated , where once the cheerless night and the ceaseless cold held sway . And all this happened because electricity came to our area along the humming wires of the REElectrification of the countryside yes , that , too , is impressive . A rich harvest in a hungry land is impressive . The sight of healthy children in a classroom is impressive . These not mighty arms are the achievements which the American Nation believes to be impressive . And , if we are steadfast , the time may come when all other nations will also find it so . Every night before I turn out the lights to sleep I ask myself this question Have I done everything that I can do to unite this country Have I done everything I can to help unite the world , to try to bring peace and hope to all the peoples of the world Have I done enough Ask yourselves that question in your homes and in this hall tonight . Have we , each of us , all done all we could Have we done enough We may well be living in the time foretold many years ago when it was said I call heaven and earth to record this day against you , that I have set before you life and death , blessing and cursing therefore choose life , that both thou and thy seed may live . This generation of the world must choose destroy or build , kill or aid , hate or understand . We can do all these things on a scale never dreamed of before . Well , we will choose life . In so doing we will prevail over the enemies within man , and over the natural enemies of all mankind . To Eisenhower and Garland , and this great institution , Johns Hopkins , I thank you for this opportunity to convey my thoughts to you and to the American people . Good night .<speech_sep>Members of the Congress , Members of the Cabinet , distinguished Americans , and guests On an April afternoon in the year 1966 , I asked a distinguished group of citizens who were interested in human rights to meet me in the Cabinet Room in the White House . In their presence that afternoon , I signed a message to the Congress . That message called for the enactment of the first effective federal law against discrimination in the sale and the rental of housing in the United States of America . Few in the Nation and the record will show that very few in that room that afternoon believed that fair housing would in our time become the unchallenged law of this land . And indeed , this bill has had a long and stormy trip . We did not get it in 1966 . We pleaded for it again in 1967 . But the Congress took no action that year . We asked for it again this year . And now at long last this afternoon its day has come . I do not exaggerate when I say that the proudest moments of my Presidency have been times such as this when I have signed into law the promises of a century . I shall never forget that it was more than 100 years ago when Abraham Lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation but it was a proclamation it was not a fact . In the Civil Rights Act of 1964 , we affirmed through law that men equal under God are also equal when they seek a job , when they go to get a meal in a restaurant , or when they seek lodging for the night in any State in the Union . Now the Negro families no longer suffer the humiliation of being turned away because of their race . In the Civil Rights Act of 1965 , we affirmed through law for every citizen in this land the most basic right of democracy the right of a citizen to vote in an election in his country . In the five States where the Act had its greater impact , Negro voter registration has already more than doubled . Now , with this bill , the voice of justice speaks again . It proclaims that fair housing for all all human beings who live in this country is now a part of the American way of life . We all know that the roots of injustice run deep . But violence cannot redress a solitary wrong , or remedy a single unfairness . Of course , all America is outraged at the assassination of an outstanding Negro leader who was at that meeting that afternoon in the White House in 1966 . And America is also outraged at the looting and the burning that defiles our democracy . We just must put our shoulders together and put a stop to both . The time is here . Action must be now . So , I would appeal to my fellow Americans by saying , the only real road to progress for free people is through the process of law and that is the road that America will travel . I urge the Congress to enact the measures for social justice that I have recommended in some twenty messages . These messages went to the Congress in January and February of this year . They broke a precedent by being completed and delivered and read and printed . These measures provide more than 78 billion that I have urged the Congress to enact for major domestic programs for all Americans in the fiscal 1969 budget . This afternoon , as we gather here in this historic room in the White House , I think we can all take some heart that democracy s work is being done . In the Civil Rights Act of 1968 America does move forward and the bell of freedom rings out a little louder . We have come some of the way , not near all of it . There is much yet to do . If the Congress sees fit to act upon these twenty messages and some fifteen appropriations bills , I assure you that what remains to be done will be recommended in ample time for you to do it after you have completed what is already before you . Thank you very much .<speech_sep>Good afternoon , ladies and gentlemen . President Truman and Johnson will go as my personal representatives to the funeral of King Paul . In addition , other members of the delegation will include Archbishop Iakovos John Plumides , President of the American Hellenic fraternal organization Judge John Pappas of Boston Congressman John Brademas of Indiana Mike Manatos , my Special Assistant and George Vournas of Washington , C . I am today reappointing Walter Tobriner to the District of Columbia Board of Commissioners . Tobriner has had a distinguished record of service in the community and while I understand his desire to return to private pursuits , I am very pleased that he has agreed to continue as Commissioner . I am today reappointing Laurence Walrath as a member of the Interstate Commerce Commission . This will be for a new 7 year term . Commissioner Walrath is currently the Chairman of the Commission and , we think , has done an excellent job as a member . I am today appointing James Robertson to a full 14 year term on the Federal Reserve Board . Robertson has served with distinction on this Board , having been appointed to serve out an unexpired term . I am today appointing Hugh Owens to the Securities and Exchange Commission . Owens is a prominent lawyer in Oklahoma City , and currently the head of the Oklahoma Securities Commission . I am happy to announce that Frank Stanton , President of the Columbia Broadcasting System , has agreed to serve as Chairman of the Advisory Commission on Information . I have a brief statement on the economy . I am very pleased by early action to the tax cut and to the outlook for the economy in general . Mail to the White House has been running about 10 to 1 in support of the tax cut . I have a wire that I would like to read you as an example of some of the many hundreds of communications we have received since our last statement on this subject . I am spending my first weeks increase in salary just to express sincere appreciation to you and your administration for a much needed relief on the American taxpayer . I am sure millions of others feel the same way . The Department of Labor s report on unemployment yesterday was quite encouraging . Both total employment and the labor force are up more than seasonal . This is the buoyancy of the tax cut , the expectation effect , and I think it is making itself felt . The unemployment rate dropped in February to the lowest level since 1962 , and as low a level as at any time in this expansion period . New figures on business intentions to invest in plant and equipment will be released this week . They will confirm a very solid increase . Those figures will be released Tuesday and I cannot comment beyond the fact that they confirm rising business optimism and I think will be more than twice the amount of the increase of last year . The price news continues to be reassuring . The Dow Jones Index of industrial stocks was 711 on November 22 , and it was 806 yesterday . The previous numbers given were composites of all stocks and the increase in value of those stocks was approximately 45 billion . The revised Consumers Price Index last week was well paved in January only one tenth of a percent above December . Weekly indicators suggest that wholesale prices may have declined a bit in February . Businessmen have healthy vestment intentions but do not seem to be expecting overheating on the price side . A survey of the National Association of Purchasing Agents last month shows a smaller percentage , only 21 percent , expecting price increases than in the preceding 5 months . This good price news is no reason to relax our vigilance on this front . I think I should say that I have accepted the invitation of the three national television networks to appear in an informal conversation with the President , reviewing the first too days of the administration , next Sunday , March 15 . The program will be taped in my office , on Saturday afternoon . The format and the ground rules will be similar to those set up by President Kennedy s conversation with the networks in 1962 , and his projected conversation with them in 1963 . The networks will announce the time they will show the program on Monday , March 9 Here is an up to date report of women in Government , since January Twenty nine women have been appointed to Presidential positions . Twenty two new appointments have been made in the professional level from GS 12 in excess of 10 , 000 through GS 18 , to 20 , 000 One hundred and sixty two promotions have been made in the professional grades from GS 12 through GS 18 . I have a brief announcement on the Commission on Heart Disease , Cancer , and Stroke . The leading causes of death in the United States are heart disease , cancer , and stroke . They have a greater impact than all other major causes of death in this country . Fifteen million Americans are today suffering from these diseases . Twenty three million days of work are lost every year because of them . Two thirds of all Americans now living will ultimately suffer or die from one of these diseases . I have therefore asked the distinguished panel of laymen and doctors to recommend steps that can be taken to reduce the burden and incidence of these diseases . This panel will be chaired by Michael DeBakey of Baylor University College of Medicine in Houston , Tex . Five of these members are women . Also on the panel are Barry Bingham , Marion Folsom , Emerson Foote , Howard Rusk , Paul Sanger , Edward Dempsey , Hugh Hussey , Irving Wright , Willis Hurst , Charles Mayo , Sidney Farber , Lee Clark , Papper , Philip Handler , Florence Mahoney , Harry Truman , Samuel Bellet , John Meyer , Marion Fay , Helen Taussig , Jane Wright , John Carter , Frank Horsfall , , Gen . Alfred Gruenther , Arthur Hanisch , James Oates , , and Gen . David Sarnoff . I have today signed an Executive order creating the Committee for the Preservation of the White House to be made of seven public members and six official members . We have created this committee to assure the American people and those who have worked so hard to make the White House a living testament to the history of our country that this work will continue . As you are aware , the principal moving force in this work in the past few years has been John Kennedy , under whose guidance and leadership this important White House project has been carried out . I am happy to report that at the invitation of Johnson , Kennedy has agreed to serve as one of the seven public members so that her continued advice and counsel will be available to us . The other members of this committee will be Henry Du Pont , James Fosburgh , George Brown , William Benton , Marshall Field , and Bruce Catton . The members of the Fine Arts , Painting , and Advisory Committees on the Restoration of the White House have been asked to continue in an advisory capacity to the new Committee for the Preservation of the White House . The Executive order and full information on the membership will be available immediately after this press conference , if you care to have the biographies . I have accepted an invitation from the Council of the Organization of American States to make an address to them on March 16th concerning the installation of the new Inter American Committee on the Alliance for Progress The Committee s Chairman is a distinguished Colombian , Carlos Sanz de Santamaria , and he had I have already talked about the importance of his Committee s work . In those same days I look forward to meeting with all of the United States ambassadors and all of the AID directors to the Latin American nations , who will be here in Washington for a 3 day conference . My commitment to the Alliance for Progress is complete , and it also enjoys strong support from the Congress . So we will be working with our Ambassadors and AID directors to strengthen our efforts in this field . I will notify the Congress on Monday that I have established new employment ceilings for most Federal agencies well below those contained in my 1965 budget estimate . These reductions will cut total Federal civilian employment by 6 , 526 below the budget estimate for the current fiscal year , and 7 , 265 below the estimate for the fiscal year July 1 . These and other economies will allow me to reduce my 1965 budget estimate by nearly 42 million . These reductions come as a result of the cost cutting programs which I asked each agency head to put into effect last November and December . The results represent some progress in our drive to raise the efficiency of the Federal Government and to cut the cost . Details will be available from Salinger . Today I have a report on the first results of our efforts to reduce the cost of Government publications . With only a few agencies reporting , with the bulk of the work yet to be done over the next several months , it is gratifying to note that already we have eliminated 158 existing or proposed publications for savings of more than 1 million to the taxpayers . I will be glad to take any questions . We would be very happy to explore that possibility with them . We have already concluded a wheat sale to them , and if they need additional wheat or anything else we have , we would be glad to discuss it with the appropriate officials at the appropriate time . I know of few things that the Soviet Union has that we are in need of , but it is a matter that we would be glad to pursue . I think that that is a proper subject for the people to pass upon . I think that that is one of the reasons we have primaries , to ascertain the sentiment of the public . We are going to have a very interesting report from New Hampshire in the next few days , and I am looking forward to hearing it . I do not know that the other States will necessarily be guided by what the judgment of the New Hampshire people will be , but it will be interesting . That is a matter that is being studied by the Senate committee at this time . I would not make such a recommendation . I think the Senate committee will hear from all who are interested in the subject , and after due deliberations make their recommendations . A constitutional amendment would not be something the President would pass upon . I have individual views on it , but at this time I think it is a matter that more appropriately should be considered by the subcommittee that is considering constitutional amendments . No , Secretary McNamara will no doubt have some observations to make on that question when he returns to this country , but no decision has yet been made . I would rate all the people who have been mentioned for Vice President as very high . I think they are all leading Democrats , all good citizens , and as the Attorney General has , have established a very fine record of public service . As I have stated on numerous occasions before , I think this is a matter that will be determined after the President has been nominated , and after his recommendations have been sought , and after the delegates have voted . Yes . I think we passed a good civil rights bill in the House . I hope that same bill will be passed in the Senate . I believe the Senate is prepared now to diligently apply itself , and I hope it stays on the subject until a bill is passed that is acceptable . No , I said in response to that question that the people have a right to express themselves , and primaries are for that purpose that I expect the Vice President will be selected after the President has been nominated , and after his suggestions and recommendations have been sought , and the delegates then will make the decision in their own wisdom . As expressed before , in the question asked by Thomas , I think that we will be glad to explore any suggestions made to us , and if there is anything that we have that other people need , we will give consideration to selling it . If there is anything that they have that we need to buy , we would explore the desirability of doing so . Yes , I have been in communication with General de Gaulle . I have met with General de Gaulle on two occasions since I became President . I met with him before I became President . Our Ambassador is on his way home now to make a full report on his observations on conditions in France . I would be very happy to meet General de Gaulle any time that it can be appropriately arranged , satisfactory to both persons , and if there is anything at all that can be worked out . We hope the French Government we wish it well . We want to see it as strong in the world as possible . We want to believe that there are no irreconcilable differences between us , and we believe when the chips are down we will all be together . I think that the leadership can best assess that . I would not want to estimate . I do not think anyone really knows how long the matter will be discussed , but I believe that there are Senators who feel very strongly , both pro and con , and they will be given adequate opportunity to express themselves . Then I believe the majority of the Senate will have an opportunity to work its will . I am not aware of anything that we are hiding . I do not want to get into any debates on the basis of partisanship or membership in any party . We have had the problem of Viet Nam for some time , in both administrations . I worked very closely with President Eisenhower when he was here , in connection with that problem . And I expect both Republicans and Democrats to work with this administration in attempting to help us do what is best for our country . I have heard nothing from the Ambassador about any intention to leave . I have every reason to believe that if he had any plans , he would make them known . I fully covered , in my conference last week , my views toward the Ambassador s service , and I believe when and if he has any plans to leave the State Department service , he will communicate them to me . I think that we are in adequate communication with each other . I would be very happy to see the Chairman when it is indicated that there are any things that we can explore that would be helpful . I know of no reason for such a meeting at this time . The answer is No to both of your questions . I do not think that the report has been made a Government report as yet . I understand this committee was appointed by the Surgeon General with the understanding that when they made their recommendations , that report would be submitted to all the departments of Government concerned , and that would be the second procedure followed . They , in turn , would carefully digest and study its recommendations and then make the recommendations back to the Secretary of Health , Education , and Welfare . The Government agencies concerned are now making that study and in due time will make their recommendations . No . I am aware of no detailed plan that General de Gaulle has concerning Southeast Asia . Our Government has discussed with representatives of his government certain phases of that situation , but so far as I am personally aware I know of no specific detailed plan that the General may have advanced . I think that explains itself . We have taken about 3 billion out of the budget as constituted last year , 98 . 8 . We reduced that budget by about 3 billion , by cutting 1 , 100 million out of Defense , almost r billion out of Agriculture , and almost 100 million out of the Post Office , 150 out of Atomic Energy , and so forth . We reduced it 3 billion . Now we thought that all of those reductions could be made . They had appropriations for them last year . We are not asking for appropriations for them this year . So we will save 3 billion there . But we are asking for an additional 2 billion to be put in the budget . Roughly , that is 400 million extra interest rate on the public debt , 600 million for space . That is a billion . Then we have the poverty program and the Appalachia program , roughly a half million dollars , 300 million extra for education , 75 for urban renewal , 75 for public housing , and we expect those programs to have money this year taken from those programs that we did not ask for money that they had last year . We expect the total budget to be a little less than a billion dollars less than the Kennedy budget of last year . Now that is possible , we think , because 17 billion was spent on Defense needs during the 3 years of the Kennedy administration that we do not think is essential today . While the population has been increasing between 2 and 3 percent , our budget has been increasing approximately 5 percent or 5 billion per year . This year , instead of it increasing 5 billion , it is going to be reduced 1 billion . This year , instead of our deficit being 10 billion , it is going to be less than 5 billion . That means that this year , our deficit will be reduced by more than 5 deg percent . We have a provision in our budget for contingencies , for any possible supplementals . We hope that that will not be necessary , but we have provided for it . We are determined , and this administration is dedicated to see to it , that we live within the budget sent to Congress . As I told you now , we will have another quarterly report April 10th , and we hope we can further reduce budget ceilings at that time . I have not studied General Eisenhower s proposals or suggestions . That is a matter that would involve a constitutional amendment . The President is not called upon to approve constitutional amendments . That is now pending in a Senate subcommittee . I think that they can be trusted to hear all the evidence and come to any conclusions that they think desirable . I have stated my views just now . I do not agree with Senator Goldwater . I think that we will have to wait until next November to see what happens at the polls . But I am very happy with the polls at the present time . I have no such recommendations at this time . I do not think that the American public has fully understood the reason for our withdrawing any advisers from South Viet Nam , and I think they should . We have called back approximately 1 , 000 people . A good many of those people , several hundred , were there training guards , policemen . Once those people were trained , we felt that they could act as policemen as well as our people could act . So , we withdrew those people . From time to time , as our training mission is completed , other people will be withdrawn . From time to time , as additional advisers are needed , or as people to train additional Vietnamese are needed , we will send them out there . But we see no reason to keep the companies of MP s out there , after they have already trained the Vietnamese who can perform the duty equally as well . I think that a good deal will depend on what Secretary McNamara advises concerning who is withdrawn , when they are withdrawn , and who is sent out , and when they are sent out . The Secretary , with General Taylor , and a very able staff , are there now , carefully studying the question and will be there almost a week . When his report is in , we will carefully evaluate it , and if additional men are needed , we will send them . If others have completed their mission , we will withdraw them . But because we withdraw some MP s from Saigon who have trained people to take their place , there is no indication that we are not still just as interested in South Viet Nam as we have always been . We are hoping that that will not be necessary . We believe it is unlikely . We cannot speak for the investment community , but we have hopes that we cannot materially increase our interest rates . We think that to do so might offset some of the advantages that have come from the tax bill , and we hope that capital will be available in ample quantities , at reasonable interest rates , to see new investment take place and new facilities built that will employ additional people . I am terribly sorry , but I did not hear your question . Would you please speak louder I will not go further than what I have said in the formal announcement . When the Committee meets and formalizes , I am sure that information will be available to you . But I do not think I should go any further today than I have gone . President , thank you .<speech_sep>Good morning , ladies and gentlemen , I will be glad to take your questions . We have previously considered and approved the recommendations of the Joint Chiefs of Staff for the force level . General Westmoreland discussed this at some length with me last night and this morning . He anticipates no increase in that level . I am generally familiar with that . It is not a surprise . I am aware that this has happened to the 35 Presidents who preceded me . No public official , certainly not one who has been in public life 35 years as I have been , would fail to expect criticism . There is a different type of criticism . There is a difference between constructive dissent and storm trooper bullying , howling , and taking the law into your own hands . I think that the President must expect that those in the other party will frequently find it necessary to find fault and to complain to attempt to picture to the people that the President should be replaced . It is also true in all parties that there are divisions . We do not all think alike . If we did , one man would be doing all the thinking . So you have divisions in parties . We have perhaps more than our share sometimes . But I am sure the Republicans think that , too . When you get into a political year , with the help and advice and the abetting that the press can do , and the assistance that the opposing party can do because it is to their interest to try to destroy you in order to have a place for themselves and you take the divisions in your own party , and they concentrate , then it does seem to mount up and at times occupy a great deal of public attention . But I do not think it is unusual for a President to be criticized . That seems to be one of the things that goes with the job . Not many of us want to say , I failed , or I made a mistake , or We should not have done that , or This should not have happened . It is always easier to say that someone over there is wrong . The President is more or less a lightning rod . At least I have seen that in this country . I remember , to take one or two illustrations , when President Truman very courageously and , I think , very wisely went into Korea . One of our pollsters dashed out with a poll Gallup and found that that position was approved by about 81 percent . Six months later , when the sacrifices were evident and the problems began to appear , the same pollster , talking to the same people , found that this had dropped from 81 to 26 percent . Now , those things have happened in all of our crises economic , domestic , and international . A President learns to expect them and learns to live with them . The important thing for every man who occupies this place is to search as best he can to get the right answer to try to find out what is right and then do it without regard to polls and without regard to criticism . North Vietnam has responded . Their statement this week in the Hanoi newspaper in response to my statement from the Enterprise is very clear and very compelling . It should answer any person in this country who has ever felt that stopping the bombing alone would bring us to the negotiating table . Hanoi made it very clear in response to my appeal from the Enterprise that their position , in effect , was the same as it has always been . It was the same as enunciated in Ho Chi Minh s letter to me which Ho Chi Minh made public . There are some hopeful people and there are some naive people in this country and there are some political people . But anyone who really wants to know what the position of North Vietnam is should read what the spokesmen of North Vietnam say . That is best summarized in Ho Chi Minh s letter to the President that he made public , that is on the record , that he has never changed . So all of these hopes , dreams , and idealistic people going around are misleading and confusing and weakening our position . I would prefer to handle our negotiations through diplomatic channels with whomsoever we may negotiate . I do not think this is the place to do our negotiating . We are very anxious to find a solution that will bring an end to the war . As we have stated so many times , we are ready to meet and discuss that with the officials of Hanoi and the Vietcong will have no problem in having their voice fully heard and considered . But I think that it would be better if we would wait until opportunity develops along that line and then do it through our trained diplomats . Well , I think we had better do that a little later . I cannot tell all the good things that have happened or the bad ones , either , in these 4 years in a 30 minute press conference . I would be charged with filibustering . But we primarily want to think of the future and not the past . It has been almost two centuries since our Revolution and since we won our freedom . We have come a long way during that period . But we have much farther to go , as you can see from our education and health and city statistics , and farm statistics . As long as there are four people out of every ten in the world who cannot spell cat , or cannot write dog , we have much to do . I am particularly proud of what we have done in education from Head Start to adult education , where men and women past 70 are learning to read and write for the first time . I am very pleased , for instance , that we have raised our contributions from the Federal Government to higher education from 16 percent to 24 percent in the last 4 years , while the States have remained practically static . We have made revolutionary strides in education , in health , in conservation , where we are probably taking in as much land in the public domain for the first time in years as we are letting out . We feel that we have brought a degree of stability into our international relations to this hemisphere through the Alliance for Progress and our meetings at Punta del Este . Working with other nations , we have made material advances in helping underdeveloped nations in Africa . We are very pleased with what has come out of our meetings with the Germans and with the British in connection with our trilateral talks what has come out of our Kennedy Round meetings the several treaties that we have negotiated with the Soviet Union , and the one that we are working on so hard now the nonproliferation treaty . We are happy that 9 million more people have good paying jobs today than had them when I came into this office . But these are things of the past , and we should accept . They are here . We want to preserve them . But the important problems are ahead . What is the next century going to be like What is the third century going to be like As long as the ancient enemies are rampant in the world illiteracy , ignorance , disease , poverty , and war there is much for government to do . We are working on that now . We will be talking more to you about that in the months ahead . Well , I will repeat to you their assessment , because they are the ones who are in the best position to judge things locally . I will give you my evaluation of what they have said . First , I think every American s heart should swell with pride at the competence and capacity of our leadership in Vietnam . I believe , and our allied people believe , that we have a superior leadership . I think it is the best that the United States of America can produce in experience , in judgment , in training , in general competence . I have had three meetings with Ambassador Bunker and three with General Westmoreland . I had coffee with him at length this morning , just before I came here . Our American people , when we get in a contest of any kind whether it is in a war , an election , a football game , or whatever it is want it decided and decided quickly get in or get out . They like that curve to rise like this indicating a sharp rise and they like the opposition to go down like this indicating a sharply declining line . That is not the kind of war we are fighting in Vietnam . We made our statement to the world of what we would do if we had Communist aggression in that part of the world in 1954 . We said we would stand with those people in the face of common danger . The time came when we had to put up or shut up . We put up . And we are there . We do not march out and have a big battle each day in a guerrilla war . It is a new kind of war for us . So it does not move that fast . Summarizing and trying to be fully responsive to your question in the time allotted , we are moving more like this indicating gradual rise . They are moving more like this indicating decline , instead of straight up and straight down . We are making progress . We are pleased with the results that we are getting . We are inflicting greater losses than we are taking . Amidst the horrors of war and more people have been killed trying to vote in South Vietnam than have been killed by bombs in North Vietnam , according to the North Vietnam figures in the midst of all the horrors of war , in guerrilla fighting in South Vietnam , we have had five elections in a period of a little over 14 months . There was great doubt whether we could have any . It took us from 1776 to 1789 not 13 months but 13 years to get a Constitution with our Anglo Saxon background and all the training we had . To think that here in the midst of war , when the grenades are popping like firecrackers all around you , that two thirds or three fourths of the people would register and vote , and have 5 elections in 13 months and through the democratic process select people at the local level , a constituent assembly , a house of representatives , a senate , a president and a vice president that is encouraging . The fact that the population under free control has constantly risen , and that under Communist control has constantly gone down , is a very encouraging sign . The improvement that has been made by the South Vietnamese themselves in putting in reforms , in announcing other programs , and in improving their own Army , is a matter of great satisfaction to Ambassador Bunker and to General Westmoreland . We have a lot to do yet . A great many mistakes have been made . We take two steps forward , and we slip back one . It is not all perfect by any means . There are a good many days when we get a C minus instead of an A plus . But overall , we are making progress . We are satisfied with that progress . Our allies are pleased with that progress . Every country that I know in that area that is familiar with what is happening thinks it is absolutely essential that Uncle Sam keep his word and stay there until we can find an honorable peace . If they have any doubts about it , Ho Chi Minh who reads our papers and who listens to our radio , who looks at our television if he has any doubts about it , I want to disillusion him this morning . We keep our commitments . Our people are going to support the men who are there . The men there are going to bring us an honorable peace . I do not know how it will affect the campaign in this country . Whatever interpretation Hanoi might make that would lead them to believe that Uncle Sam whoever may be President is going to pull out and it will be easier for them to make an inside deal with another President , then they will make a serious misjudgment . I will cross that bridge when I get to it , as I have told you so many times . We want very much to have a tax bill just as quickly as we can get it . We think the sound , prudent , fiscal policy requires it . We are going to do everything that the President and the administration can do to get that tax bill . I would be less than frank if I did not tell you that I have no indication whatever that Mills or Byrnes or the Ways and Means Committee is likely to report a tax bill before they adjourn . I feel that one of our failures in the administration has been our inability to convince the Congress of the wisdom of fiscal responsibility and the necessity of passing a tax bill not only for the effect it will have on the inflationary developments , but the effect it will have on the huge deficit that we are running . I think one of the great mistakes that the Congress will make is that Ford and Mills have taken this position that they cannot have any tax bill now . They will live to rue the day when they made that decision . Because it is a dangerous decision . It is an unwise decision . I think that the people of America none of whom want to pay taxes any pollster can walk out and say , Do you want to pay more tax Of course you will say , No , I do not want to pay tax . But if you ask him Do you want inflation do you want prices to increase 5 or 6 percent do you want a deficit of 30 or 35 billion do you want to spend 35 billion more than you are taking in I think the average citizen would say , No . Here at the height of our prosperity when our gross national product is going to run at 850 billion , when we look at the precedents of what we have done in past wars in Korea when President Truman asked for a tax increase , people supported it . This request has been before the Congress since last January . They have finished most of the appropriations bills . I read the story this morning . It looks like out of 145 billion they will roughly cut a billion dollars in expenditures . But they will cut several billion from revenues because of inaction , because people do not like to stand up and do the unpopular thing of assuming responsibility that men in public life are required to do sometime . I know it does not add to your polls and your popularity to say we have to have additional taxes to fight this war abroad and fight the problems in our cities at home . But we can do it with the gross national product we have . We should do it . And I think when the American people and the Congress get the full story they will do it . We have failed up to now to be able to convince them . But we are going to continue to try in every way that is proper . I do not know how I am going to be , after all this opposition develops , so far as my state of health is concerned . But I am very healthy today . I do not know whether this criticism has contributed to my good health or not . I do not know what Senator McCarthy is going to do . I am not sure that he knows what he plans to do . I think we had better just wait and see , until there is something definite there , and meet it when it is necessary . There has always been confusion , frustration , and difference of opinion when there is a war going on . There was in the Revolutionary War when only about a third of the people thought that was a wise move . A third of them opposed it , and a third were on the sideline . That was true when all of New England came down to secede in Madison s administration in the War of 1812 , and stopped in Baltimore . They did not quite make it because Andrew Jackson s results in New Orleans came in . They were having a party there that night . The next morning they came and told the President they wanted to congratulate him that they had thought he was right all along , although they had come from Boston to Baltimore in a secessionist move . That was true in the Mexican War when the Congress overwhelmingly voted to go in and later passed a resolution that had grave doubts about it . Some of the most bitter speeches were made . They were so bitter they could not be published . They had m hold up publication of them for 100 years . I do not have to remind you of what happened in the Civil War . People were here in the White House begging Lincoln to concede and work out a deal with the Confederacy when word came to him of his victories . They told him that Pennsylvania was gone that Illinois had no chance . Those pressures come to a President . You know what President Roosevelt went through , and President Wilson in World War He had some Senators from certain areas then that gave him very serious problems until victory was assured . Now , when you look back upon it , there are very few people who would think that Wilson , Roosevelt , or Truman were in error . We are going to have this criticism . We are going to have these differences . No one likes war . All people love peace . But you cannot have freedom without defending it . At a time when the richest nation in the world is enjoying more prosperity than it has ever had before , when we carefully tailor our requests to the very minimum that we think is essential the lowest request that we have had in years and then Congress cuts it 33 1 3 percent I think it is a mistake . It is a serious mistake . When you consider that 1 billion that we are attempting to save there , out of the 850 billion that we will produce , we ought to reconsider that decision . Because what we are doing with that money not only can give great help to underdeveloped nations but that , in itself , can prevent the things that cause war where you are required to spend billions to win it . I would rather have a little preventive medicine . Every dollar that we spend in our foreign assistance , trying to help poor people help themselves , is money well spent . I do not think we overdid it . I do not think we went too far . But I think the Congress has , in the reductions it has made . Again , it is popular to go back home and say , Look what I did for you . I cut out all these foreign expenditures . But when the trouble develops the people who are starving , the people who are ignorant , illiterate , and diseased and wars spring up and we have to go in , we will spend much more than we would if we had taken an ounce of prevention . No , I have not called anyone unpatriotic . I have not said anything that would indicate that . I think the wicked fleeth when no one pursueth , sometimes . I do think that some people are irresponsible , make untrue statements , and ought to be cautious and careful when they are dealing with the problem involving their men at the front . There is a great deal of difference , as I said a moment ago , between criticism , indifference , and responsible dissent all of which we insist on and all of which we protect and storm trooper bullying , throwing yourself down in the road , smashing windows , rowdyism , and every time a person attempts to speak to try to drown him out . We believe very strongly in preserving the right to differ in this country , and the right to dissent . If I have done a good job of anything since I have been President , it is to insure that there are plenty of dissenters . There is not a person in this press corps that cannot write what he wants to write . Most of them do write what they want to . I say want advisedly . I want to protect that . Our Congress wants to protect it . But if by chance , should say Now , I am not sure that you saw all the cables on this and you are exactly right let me explain the other side of it , I would hope that you would not say I am lambasting my critics , or that I am assailing someone . What I am trying to do is to preserve my right to give the other side . I do not think one side ought to dominate the whole picture . So what I would say is , let us realize that we are in the midst of a war . Let us realize that there are 500 , 000 of our boys out there who are risking their lives to win that war . Let us ask ourselves what it is we can do to help . If you think you can make a contribution and help them by expressing your opinion and dissenting , then do it . But then if the Secretary of State starts to explain his viewpoint , do not send out instructions all over the country and say When he starts to talk and says Chair , man , stamp your feet . When he comes to the end of a sentence , all of you do this , and at the third sentence , all of you boo . I am amazed that the press in this country , who insist on the right to live by the first amendment , and to be protected by it , does not insist that these storm trooper tactics live by the first amendment , too , and that they be wiped out . I think the time has come when it would be good for all of us to take a new , fresh look at dissent . We welcome responsible dissent . But there is a great deal of difference between responsible dissent and some of the things that are taking place in this country which I consider to be extremely dangerous to our national interest , and I consider not very helpful to the men who are fighting the war for us . Now , everyone must make that judgment for himself . I have never said anyone was unpatriotic . I do not question these people s motives . I do question their judgment . I cannot say that this dissent has contributed much to any victories we have had . I cannot say that these various proposals that range from a Senator to a county commissioner to a mayor of a city have really changed General Westmoreland s plan much , or Ambassador Bunker s approach . The papers are filled with it every day . So I think you have to consider it for what you think it is worth and make your own judgment . That is the theory of the first amendment . We do not stop the publication of any papers . We do not fine anyone for something they say . We just appeal to them to remember that they do not have the privilege at the moment of being out there fighting . Please count to 10 before you say something that hurts instead of helps . We know that most people s intentions are good . We do not question their motives . We have never said they are unpatriotic , although they say some pretty ugly things about us . People who live in glass houses should not be too anxious to throw stones . I think our aims in Vietnam have been very clear from the beginning . They are consistent with the SEATO Treaty , with the Atlantic Charter , and with the many , many statements that we have made to the Congress in connection with the Tonkin Gulf Resolution . The Secretary of State has made this clear dozens and dozens of times and I made it enough that I thought even all the preachers in the country had heard about it . That is , namely , to protect the security of the United States . We think the security of the United States is definitely tied in with the security of Southeast Asia . Secondly , to resist aggression . When we are a party to a treaty that says we will do it , then we carry it out . I think if you saw a little child in this room who was trying to waddle across the floor and some big bully came along and grabbed it by the hair and started stomping it , I think you would do something about it . I think that we thought we made a mistake when we saw Hitler moving across the landscape of Europe . The concessions that were made by the men carrying umbrellas at that time I think in retrospect we thought that was a mistake . So as a consequence , in 1954 under the leadership of President Eisenhower and Secretary Dulles , we had a SEATO Treaty . It was debated , it was considered and it was gone into very thoroughly by the Senate . The men who presented that treaty then said This is dangerous . The time may come when we may have to put up or shut up . But we ought to serve notice in Asia now as we refused to serve notice in Europe a few years ago that we will resist aggression that we will stand against someone who seeks to gobble up little countries , if those little countries call upon us for our help . So we did that . I did not vote for that treaty . I was in the hospital . Senator Kennedy did not vote for it the late President he was in the hospital . Senator Dirksen did not vote for it . But 82 Senators did vote for it . They knew what was in that treaty . The time came when we had to decide whether we meant what we said when we said our security was tied in to their security and that we would stand in unison in the face of common danger . Now , we are doing that . We are doing it against whoever combines out there to promote aggression . We are going to do whatever we think is necessary to protect the security of South Vietnam and let those people determine for themselves what kind of a government they have . We think they are moving along very quickly in that direction to developing a democratic procedure . Third , we are going to do whatever it is necessary to do to see that the aggressor does not succeed . Those are our purposes . Those are our goals . We are going to get a lot of advice to do this or to do that . We are going to consider it all . But for years West Point has been turning out the best military men produced anywhere in the world . For years we have had in our Foreign Service trained and specialized people . We have in 110 capitals today the best brains we can select . Under our constitutional arrangements the President must look to his Secretary of State , to his foreign policy , to his Ambassadors , to the cables and views that they express , to his leaders like the Joint Chiefs of Staff , and to General Westmoreland and others and carefully consider everything they say and then do what he thinks is right . That is not always going to please a county commissioner , or a mayor , or a member of a legislature . It never has in any war we have ever been in been a favorite of the Senate . The leaders on the military committees and the leaders in other posts have frequently opposed it . Champ Clark , the Speaker of the House , opposed the draft in Woodrow Wilson s administration . The Chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee with the exception of Senator Vandenberg almost invariably has found a great deal wrong with the Executive in the field of foreign policy . There is a division there , and there is some frustration there . Those men express it and they have a right to . They have a duty to do it . But it is also the President s duty to look and see what substance they have presented how much they thought it out what information they have how much knowledge they have received from General Westmoreland or Ambassador Bunker , whoever it is how familiar they are with what is going on and whether you really think you ought to follow their judgment or follow the judgment of the other people . I do that every day . Some days I have to say to our people Let us try this plan that Senator X has suggested . And we do . We are doing that with the United Nations resolution . We have tried several times to get the United Nations to play a part in trying to bring peace in Vietnam . The Senate thinks that this is the way to do it . More than 50 of them have signed a resolution . The Senate Foreign Relations Committee had a big day yesterday . They reported two resolutions in one day . I have my views . I have my views about really what those resolutions will achieve . But I also have an obligation to seriously and carefully consider the judgments of the other branch of the Government . And we are going to do it . Even though we may have some doubts about what will be accomplished , that they think may be accomplished , if it is a close question we will bend to try to meet their views because we think that is important . We have already tried the United Nations before , but we may try it again because they have hopes and they believe that this is the answer . We will do everything that we can to make it the answer . I do not want to hurt its chances by giving any predictions at this moment . We will consider the views that everyone suggests . Thank you , President .<speech_sep>My fellow Americans We have endured a week such as no nation should live through a time of violence and tragedy . For a few minutes tonight , I want to talk about that tragedy and I want to talk about the deeper questions it raises for us all . I am tonight appointing a special Advisory Commission on Civil Disorders . Governor Otto Kerner of Illinois has agreed to serve as Chairman . Mayor John Lindsay of New York will serve as Vice Chairman . Its other members will include Fred Harris , Senator from Oklahoma Edward Brooke , United States Senator from Massachusetts James Corman , Representative from California , 22d District , Los Angeles William McCulloch , the Representative from the State of Ohio , the 4th District Abel , the president of the United Steel Workers Charles Thornton , the president , director , and chairman of the board of Litton Industries , Inc . Roy Wilkins , the executive director of the NAACKatherine Graham Peden , the Commissioner of Commerce of the State of Kentucky Herbert Jenkins , the chief of police , Atlanta , Georgia . The Commission will investigate the origins of the recent disorders in our cities . It will make recommendations to me , to the Congress , to the State Governors , and to the mayors for measures to prevent or contain such disasters in the future . In their work , the Commission members will have access to the facts that are gathered by Director Edgar Hoover and the Federal Bureau of Investigation . The FBI will continue to exercise its full authority to investigate these riots , in accordance with my standing instructions , and continue to search for evidence of conspiracy . But even before the Commission begins its work , and even before all the evidence is in , there are some things that we can tell about the outbreaks of this summer . First let there be no mistake about it the looting , arson , plunder , and pillage which have occurred are not part of the civil rights protest . There is no American right to loot stores , or to burn buildings , or to fire rifles from the rooftops . That is crime and crime must be dealt with forcefully , and swiftly , and certainly under law . Innocent people , Negro and white , have been killed . Damage to property owned by Negroes and whites is calamitous . Worst of all , fear and bitterness which have been loosed will take long months to erase . The criminals who committed these acts of violence against the people deserve to be punished and they must be punished . Explanations may be offered , but nothing can excuse what they have done . There will be attempts to interpret the events of the past few days . But when violence strikes , then those in public responsibility have an immediate and a very different job not to analyze , but to end disorder . That they must seek to do with every means at their command through local police , State officials , and in extraordinary circumstances where local authorities have stated that they cannot maintain order with their own resources then through Federal power that we have limited authority to use . I have directed the Secretary of Defense to issue new training standards for riot control procedures immediately to National Guard units across the country . Through the Continental Army Command , this expanded training will begin immediately . The National Guard must have the ability to respond effectively , quickly , and appropriately , in conditions of disorder and violence . Those charged with the responsibility of law enforcement should , and must , be respected by all of our people . The violence must be stopped , quickly , finally , and permanently . It would compound the tragedy , however , if we should settle for order that is imposed by the muzzle of a gun . In America , we seek more than the uneasy calm of martial law . We seek peace that is based on one man s respect for another man and upon mutual respect for law . We seek a public order that is built on steady progress in meeting the needs of all of our people . Not even the sternest police action , nor the most effective Federal troops , can ever create lasting peace in our cities . The only genuine , long range solution for what has happened lies in an attack mounted at every level upon the conditions that breed despair and violence . All of us know what those conditions are ignorance , discrimination , slums , poverty , disease , not enough jobs . We should attack these conditions not because we are frightened by conflict , but because we are fired by conscience . We should attack them because there is simply no other way to achieve a decent and orderly society in America . In the past 3 1 2 years , we have directed the greatest governmental effort in all of our American history at these ancient enemies . The roll call of those laws reveals the depth of our concern the Model Cities Act , the Voters Rights Act , the Civil Rights Acts , the Rent Supplement Act , Medicare and Medicaid , the 24 educational bills , Head Start , the Job Corps , the Neighborhood Youth Corps , the Teacher Corps , manpower development and training . And many , many more acts too numerous to mention on television tonight . We will continue to press for laws which would protect our citizens from violence , like the Safe Streets and Crime Control Act now under consideration in the Congress , and the Gun Control Act . Our work has just begun . Yet there are those who feel that even this beginning is too much . There are those who would have us turn back even now , at the beginning of this journey . Last week in Congress , a small but important plan for action in the cities was voted down in the House of Representatives . The Members of that body rejected my request for 20 million to fight the pestilence of rats rats which prowl in dark alleys and tenements , and attack thousands of city children . The passage of this legislation would have meant much to the children of the slums . A strong Government that has spent millions to protect baby calves from worms could surely afford to show as much concern for baby boys and girls . There are some tonight who feel that we cannot afford a model cities program . They reduced my request for funds this year by two thirds . There are some who feel that we cannot afford additional good teachers for the children of poverty in urban areas . Or new efforts to house those who are most in need of housing . Or to aid in education to those who need to read and write . Theirs is a strange system of bookkeeping . I believe we should be counting the assets that these measures can bring to America cities richer in opportunity cities more full of promise cities of order , progress , and happiness . Instead , some are counting the seeds of bitterness . This is not a time for angry reaction . It is a time for action starting with legislative action to improve the life in our cities . The strength and promise of the law are the surest remedies for tragedy in the streets . But laws are only one answer . Another answer lies in the way our people will respond to these disturbances . There is a danger that the worst toll of this tragedy will be counted in the hearts of Americans in hatred , in insecurity , in fear , in heated words which will not end the conflict , but prolong it . So let us acknowledge the tragedy but let us not exaggerate it . Let us look about tonight . Let us look at ourselves . We will see these things Most Americans , Negro and white , are leading decent , responsible , and productive lives . Most Americans , Negro and white , seek safety in their neighborhoods and harmony with their neighbors . Nothing can destroy good will more than a period of needless strife and suspicion between the races . Let us condemn the violent few . But let us remember that it is law abiding Negro families who have really suffered most at the hands of the rioters . It is responsible Negro citizens who hope most fervently and need most urgently to share in America s growth and prosperity . This is no time to turn away from that goal . To reach it will require more than laws , and much more than dollars . It will take renewed dedication and understanding in the heart of every citizen . I know there are millions of men and women tonight who are eager to heal the wounds that we have suffered who want to get on with the job of teaching and working and building America . In that spirit , at the conclusion of this address , I will sign a proclamation tonight calling for a day of prayer in our Nation throughout all of our States . On this Sunday , July 30 , I urge the citizens in every town , every city , and every home in this land to go into their churches to pray for order and reconciliation among men . I appeal to every Governor , every mayor , every preacher , and every teacher , and parent to join and give leadership in this national observance . This spirit of dedication cannot be limited to our public leaders . It must extend to every citizen in this land . And the man who speaks to break the peace must feel the powerful disapproval of all of his neighbors . So tonight , I call upon every American to search his own heart . And to those who are tempted by violence , I would say this Think again . Who is really the loser when violence comes Whose neighborhood is made a shambles Whose life is threatened most If you choose to tear down what other hands have built , You will not succeed You will suffer most from your own crimes You will learn that there are no victors in the aftermath of violence . The apostles of violence , with their ugly drumbeat of hatred , must know that they are now heading for ruin and disaster . And every man who really wants progress or justice or equality must stand against them and their miserable virus of hate . For other Americans , especially those in positions of public trust , I have this message Yours is the duty to bring about a peaceful change in America . If your response to these tragic events is only business as usual you invite not only disaster , but dishonor . So , my fellow citizens , let us go about our work . Let us clear the streets of rubble and quench the fires that hatred set . Let us feed and care for those who have suffered at the rioters hands but let there be no bonus or reward or salutes for those who have inflicted that suffering . Let us resolve that this violence is going to stop and there will be no bonus to flow from it . We can stop it . We must stop it . We will stop it . And let us build something much more lasting faith between man and man , faith between race and race . Faith in each other and faith in the promise of beautiful America . Let us pray for the day when mercy and truth are met together righteousness and peace have kissed each other . Let us pray and let us work for better jobs and better housing and better education that so many millions of our own fellow Americans need so much tonight . Let us then act in the Congress , in the city halls , and in every community , so that this great land of ours may truly be one nation under God with liberty and justice for all . Good night and thank you .<speech_sep>Good afternoon , ladies and gentlemen . Question The people of Vietnam are in the middle of an election campaign to select a President and a Vice President , and about 60 members of their Senate . In October they will elect a House of Representatives . From time to time there seems to be from news reports and operations reports accelerations , escalations , lulls , and other various types of descriptions of our activities out there . Our policy in Vietnam is the same We are there to deter aggression . We are there to permit the people of South Vietnam to determine for themselves who their leaders should be and what kind of government they should have . It is remarkable that a young country , fighting a tough war on its own soil , has moved so far , so fast , toward a representative government . Since we first went to Honolulu , we have urged that steps be taken in this direction . First the Constituent Assembly was elected . Next a constitution was written . At Guam that constitution was given to us . A pledge was made that they would have free and fair elections that the people would have a chance to select a President and a Vice President , and members of the Senate . In the last 2 or 3 days there has been a lull in the air activity . That is because of the weather , and because those who direct our operations there felt it was necessary to restrain themselves and not to carry out certain targets that were available to them . Our activity in the South is determined a great deal by what the enemy there is willing to do . More and more here of late we think that because of the losses he has suffered , because of the position in which he finds himself he is less anxious to engage our troops in combat . As a consequence , last week we had one of the lowest killed in action rates that we have had in several weeks . That is not to indicate that we will not have a bad week next week . But weather , enemy operations , local conditions all of those determine in some respect what happens between a lull and stepped up activity . So far as this Government is concerned , our policy has not changed . It remains the same . We are steadfast in our determination to make our pledges good , to keep our commitments , and to resist the attempt to take over this little country by brute force . Well , I think that that is to be expected in all elections . I have participated in a good many . I have never known one where there were not some who questioned the efficiency of the election , the accuracy of the election , or the wisdom of the voters expressions . The date for the election has been set . The nearer you get to that election date , the more charges you will hear concerning the individual candidates , concerning the methods they use , concerning the type of candidate you should select , and concerning anything they can question or criticize . We do that in this country . You will expect more of it in a young country that is really having its first overall national election under wartime conditions . We hope that whoever wins , civilian or military leaders , will work together and will cooperate in the essential work that is ahead of them . We realize that one of our most difficult periods is going to be between now and the early part of September . We have realized that all along . We have had to adjust a good many things in this country , as long as we have had a Constitution . During the election period , we have to forgo a good many things . We have to indulge ourselves the luxury of a great many rash statements and criticism . You can expect that to come from South Vietnam . We are going to do all we can . It is not our election . It is not our government . We are not running things . It seems to me this is a matter for the Vietnamese themselves . But to the extent that our counsel is sought , and our advice is followed , we are going to do everything we can to see that we have an orderly , free , and fair election . Ambassador Bunker , who is one of our most experienced men , tells me that he is hopeful that this will come about . We have almost 100 measures pending in the Congress . About half of them have been passed . At the end of the Congress , in the last few months of any Congress , we try to make a maximum effort to clean up all the bills that are left . We are very happy at the action that the Ways and Means Committee in the House of Representatives took on our social security measure . There are some matters that they brought into it that we had hoped they would not . There are some reductions made that we did not favor . But generally speaking , our recommendations were carefully considered . The House acted in its judgment and passed by that overwhelming vote yesterday a measure that I think the Senate can improve . I hope it will be sent to the President . We do have a crime control measure that has been acted upon by the House . We have a civil rights measure . That has been acted upon by the House . We have an Economic Opportunity Act . It is now pending in the House committee . We have a model cities bill that has been greatly reduced in the House , but I expect the Senate to act on it this week . We have a rent supplements that the House cut out entirely that should be restored in the Senate . We hope that it will . We have the urban renewal measure almost a billion dollars , some 750 million . We have the urban mass transit , the urban research . We have the rat extermination , the education bill some 15 or 20 measures that are extremely important to the cities . I have talked to all the leadership about it . I have talked to a good many of the individual Members about them . I think there is a general belief that the Congress will consider all of these measures and , I believe , pass most of them . We do not expect to get everything that we had recommended . But we believe we will get most of it . We think it is essential . As I said in my letter to Senator Mansfield , we have housing legislation , we have rent supplements , we have model cities , and we have a good poverty bill . I believe Congress will , in the last few days of this session , face up to all of these measures and pass them . I heard that over the radio . I regret , of course , the feelings of the family . But I can understand the feelings of any parent who has lost a child . When I heard it , I just wished that it was possible for me to have enough time to sit down and express the gratitude this Nation feels for the service of the young men such as the one who belonged to this home , and perhaps give them a little better explanation of what we were doing there , and why . I would be glad to consider and discuss any proposal that would indicate it would lead to productive discussions that might bring about peace in that area of the world . I am very happy that Chief of State Thieu and Prime Minister Ky indicate that after the election they are hopeful conditions would be such that productive discussions and negotiations could take place . The United States is very anxious to meet with the representatives of the North Vietnamese Government at any time , at a mutually agreed place , to try to agree on some plan that will resolve these differences . We have made a number of proposals ourselves . As of this moment , there has not been communicated to us any change of position any different from that reflected in Ho Chi Minh s letter of several weeks ago . We would , of course , welcome any indication on the part of the North Vietnamese that they would agree to a cease fire , that they would agree to negotiations , that they would agree that if we had a bombing pause that they would not take advantage of that pause to increase our men killed in action . No . I think there are those who are taking a pretty tough drubbing out there , who would like for our folks to believe there is a stalemate . But I have not been there . I cannot personally say that I have observed all the action that has taken place . General Westmoreland is there . I have sent General Wheeler there within the month . General Johnson , the Chief of Staff of our Army , has just returned from there . General Larsen , a very able general who has been in the II Corps now for 2 years , has just returned from there . All of these men think that the stalemate charge is nothing more than propaganda . First I would like to make it clear that these air strikes are not intended as any threat to Communist China . They do not , in fact , pose any threat to that country . We believe that Peking knows that the United States does not seek to widen the war in Vietnam . The evidence has been quite clear , we think , that the strikes were made against the major military staging areas and lines of communication where the enemy has been concentrating his supplies and troops . The transportation routes and bridges over which those troops have been moved against our men have been hit . We think that these targets are directly related to the enemy s capacity to move material into South Vietnam to kill American boys . The targets to us were clearly identifiable . They were carefully selected . They were all within North Vietnam . The strikes were made by the most highly trained pilots that we had . They employed every human and every technical precaution to insure that the ordnance fell on target . It did . While everyone is entitled to his opinion a good many of them express it the tougher the going gets , the more difficult it will be for some to stay with us and go all the way , and last it out . Nevertheless , we believe that if we are going to be there , it is essential to do everything we can to protect the men we have there . We are going to try to provide the maximum deterrent at the minimum loss . I think that we have pending before the Congress some 15 or 20 measures to try to bring about an improvement of living conditions in our cities . They involve many hundreds of millions of dollars . The Congress up to now has not seen fit to pass the ones we have requested . We are going to urge upon them the program that we have recommended . We would be glad to consider any other recommendations that may come , but I think we will be rather fortunate if we can pass the measures that are now pending before the Congress without material reduction in our recommendations . For instance , the model cities program is designed to improve the ghettos in the cities of the land . We asked the Congress for 2 billion 300 million . They reduced that to about 1 billion almost half . Then we asked for the funding of 600 million of that billion for model cities this year . They have cut that 600 million to 200 million . Over the long run many years ahead I am confident that we will make substantial increases in our expenditures in the dries . If we can get the modal cities passed this year , if we can get the Kaiser commission s recommendations on the pilot projects for housing passed , if we can get good , sound poverty measures , if we can get our rent supplements the program that has already been thought out and worked out I would be very pleased . In the meantime , we have a group in the Housing and Urban Development organization under Secretary Weaver and Secretary Wood as well as Kaiser s committee that has taken a look at every proposal that has been made with a view to determining what merit they hold and how far we can go in embracing them . I think that one of the very serious problems we have in this country all of the consumers is trying to insure that the farmers who produce the food we eat and the fibers we wear get a fair price for their products . I do not think they have gotten a fair price over the years in line with the earnings of the workers in industry . I talked with some of the farm leaders before the Des Moines meeting . The Secretary of Agriculture brought in some of those leaders . I think that this Government should give very serious consideration to evolving some kind of a program that will give the farmer an equity of fairness , on the same basis for bargaining for the prices of his product as we have for the workers bargaining for the wages they receive for their labors . Now the particulars of that have not been worked out . I just do not know how we can obtain it . But I do think that the farmers are on the short end of the stick . I do think that people are leaving the farms by the thousands and going into the dries . I do think that is creating a very serious problem for us . Today the farmer gets a smaller percentage of the dollar for the food that he produces for us than in any other period . I would very much hope that the administration , at some date in the reasonably near future , could find some legislation that would give to the farmer a means of bargaining reasonably and collectively , as we permit our workers to do . Sarah , you do not always clear up your critics that easily . They will be with you before the vote , and they will be with you after the vote . That is the way it is in a democratic society . I have given a lot of concern and attention to attempting to get the agreement of the Congress on the course that the Government followed in its commitments abroad . As a young Senator , I recall very vividly hearing Senator Taft speak on several occasions about President Truman s intervention in Korea . He frequently said , in substance , that while he thought what the President did was right , he did it the wrong way that he should have consulted the Congress and he should have asked for their opinion . Now under the Constitution , the Congress has the right to declare to declare war . It was never intended that the Congress would fight the war , direct the war , take the bombers off the ground , put them back on it , or ground them . But it has the responsibility to declare the war . Senator Taft thought that President Truman , before he committed our troops in Korea , should have asked the Congress not necessarily for a declaration but for an opinion for a resolution . President Eisenhower followed that policy in several instances , asking the Congress for an opinion . He discussed it with the leaders before he submitted the resolution . Back in May and June 1964 , before the Tonkin Gulf , we considered what we should do in order to keep the Congress informed , to keep them in place , and to keep them in agreement with what our action should be there in case of contingencies . There was very active debate in the Government , as I remember it , back as far as May and June of that year . Then we had the Tonkin Gulf . After the Tonkin Gulf we responded to the action with appropriate measures in the Tonkin Gulf . But after that , we felt that we should point out that there was likelihood there would be other instances . We could see the problem developing in that area . So we asked the leadership of the Congress to come to the White House . We reviewed with them Senator Taft s statements about Korea , and the actions that President Eisenhower had taken , and asked their judgment about the resolution that would give us the opinion of the Congress . We were informed that a resolution was thought desirable . So the members of the executive and legislative branches talked about the content of that resolution . A resolution was drafted . That was reviewed with the leaders on , I believe , August 4 , 1964 . I sent a message up to the Congress shortly afterwards and asked for consideration of a resolution . Some of the Members of the Congress felt that they should amend the resolution , even after amendments had already been put into it by Members , to provide that if at any time the Congress felt that the authority delegated in the resolution should be withdrawn , the Congress , without waiting for a recommendation from the President he might differ with them could withdraw that authority by just passing a resolution which did not require the President s veto . They could do it by themselves . That suggestion was made to me by a prominent Senator . I readily accepted . So the machinery is there any time the Congress desires to withdraw its views on the matter . We stated then , and we repeat now , we did not think the resolution was necessary to do what we did and what we are doing . But we thought it was desirable . We thought if we were going to ask them to stay the whole route , and if we expected them to be there on the landing , we ought to ask them to be there on the takeoff . So Secretary Rusk and Secretary McNamara went before the House Foreign Affairs Committee and the Armed Services Committee . Then they went before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee and the Senate Armed Services Committee . They testified before all four of those committees . As I said , they accepted some suggestions by the Congressmen and Senators , and amended the resolution . The committees reported the resolution . I believe the Foreign Affairs Committee of the House reported unanimously . The Armed Services Committee went along with it . On the Foreign Relations Committee of the Senate , I think there was only one vote against it Senator Morse . Then it went out to both Chambers for debate . We had stated our views in the message and in the measure . The leadership , too , expressed our views in some of their statements . On August 5th , 6th , and 7th , during that period , there was debate , 2 days in the Senate I believe on the 6th and 7th . I do not recall the dates exactly in the House . But that resolution was sent to us by a vote of over 500 to 2 . I believe that every Congressman and most of the Senators knew what that resolution said . That resolution authorized the President and expressed the Congress willingness to go along with the President to do whatever was necessary to deter aggression . Now we are , as I say , trying to provide a maximum deterrent with a minimum loss . We think we are well within the grounds of our constitutional responsibility . We think we are well within the rights of what the Congress said in its resolution . The remedy is there if we have acted unwisely or improperly . It is going to be tougher as it gets along . The longer the fighting lasts , the more sacrifice is required in men and materiel the more dissent , the more difficult it is going to be . But I do not believe we are acting beyond our constitutional responsibility . The Secretary of the Interior , since the Middle East crisis , has had a very special group in his Department dealing with imports and production matters . His various advisory committees give him counsel as to emergency measures that could be taken and some that have been taken to adequately protect our petroleum requirements . They are reasonably well in hand . We think that there is a great future in the oil shale development . I would doubt that in this immediate crisis that you could expect any great acceleration . But if at any time our petroleum supply should be threatened more than it is now , the need should become greater . In any event just as the processes develop , you can expect further action in that field . But I do not think it is imminent now . Yes , from the 15 appropriation bills sent to the Congress two of which have been passed . We are examining them now . There is little indication that much in the way of savings can come from them . We have talked to the Chairman of the Appropriations Committee of the House , where they originated , last week . Mahon was here earlier in the morning . We have pointed out the problem we have . We have urged the leadership to set a target date for getting those appropriation bills to us so they can be examined . There are about 61 billion worth of nondefense expenditures in the budget . We would expect to have to get the Congress to reduce many hundreds of millions perhaps several billions in those appropriations . If the Congress fails to do it , we will have to see where it fails what bills contain the money we think can be reduced and that have the lowest priority and then act . Each department has been instructed to immediately contact the chairmen of its subcommittees and urge them to take action on the bill . When those reductions are made by the Congress , if they are not sufficient , then the Executive is pledged to make further reductions . We believe we should try to keep our borrowing within 50 percent of the anticipated deficit . We hope that we can get a tax bill that will raise about 7 billion plus . That will amount to about 25 percent of the anticipated deficit . Then we believe by refusing to pass certain measures that have been proposed and are pending by taking action on other measures that the House has reduced , by reducing several billion ourselves , the Congress and the Executive can reduce the anticipated deficit by some 20 or 25 percent in withholdings , deferments , impoundings , and actual cuts . Thank you , President .<speech_sep>Good morning , ladies and gentlemen . We have heard from the British . We are delighted to have their views and their suggestions . We are very agreeable and rather anxious to meet , as I have said over the past months , anywhere , any time that Hanoi is willing to come to a conference table . We appreciate the interest of all peace loving nations in arranging a cease fire , in attempting to bring the disputing parties together , and in an effort to work out a conference where various views can be exchanged . America is ready to designate her representative today , and will be glad to do so if the other parties do likewise . On the Secretary General , we have encouraged him in every way we can to take leadership and initiative , and use the full influence and resources of the United Nations to bring about a stop of the violence on both sides , to bring an end to the total war by both sides . And any recommendations he makes , any suggestions he presents , will be very carefully considered and evaluated insofar as the United States is concerned . We will be glad to meet anyone more than halfway , insofar as talking instead of fighting is concerned . Well , I have followed our activity in Vietnam very closely . I think the country knows and I would like to repeat again that it is the policy of this Government to bomb only military targets . We realize that when you do that , inevitably and almost invariably there are casualties , there are losses of lives . We regret to see those losses . We do everything we can to minimize them . But they do occur in North Vietnam as they do in South Vietnam . There are thousands of civilians who have died this year in South Vietnam as a result of detonation of grenades and bombs . And every casualty is to be regretted . But only military targets have been authorized . And I am informed that our men who are responsible for carrying out our orders have done their very best to execute those orders as given . I believe that we will have a good year . This year has brought us great satisfaction in many fields , and some disappointments in others . But on the whole I believe that generally there are more people working today than have ever worked before . They are making better wages than they have ever made before . The farmer s income is almost at an all time high , almost a net income of 5 , 000 per year . On the domestic front we have made great advances in educating more children , in providing better schools , in improving their health , in making deep dents in reducing poverty . In our foreign affairs , we have had some disappointments . We deeply regret that we had to send substantial forces to Vietnam in July of 1965 . In the 18 months they have been there , although we think there has been a decided turn in the military situation , we have not been able to arrange a cease fire or to bring the other side to the conference table , or to bring peace to the world . We have diligently worked for 18 months in every way we know how , but we have not succeeded . That is one of our major regrets . We have done our best to hold NATO together , and we think we have had some success in that direction . We think in Latin America things are on the upgrade . We think in Asia , as a result of our Manila Conference and our other efforts in that direction , things are going as good as we expected . We can point in Africa to the African Development Bank . And while there are mixed situations in both Africa and the Middle East , we have done our best to live up to our responsibilities . And we think generally speaking the American people have much to be thankful for . There are many challenges ahead . There are many problems yet unsolved . But in unity there is strength . I believe that the new Congress and this administration will put the interest of the Nation first and do what we can to solve the problems that remain unsolved . In short , I think we have had a generally good year . I think most Americans believe that they have done reasonably well this year . We all deeply regret that in 18 months we have not been able to bring peace to the world . It is our hope that all the nations of the world could reach some agreement in the field of nonproliferation . In recent weeks I have felt encouraged about the discussions that have taken place . I wish that it were possible to say to the American people and to the world that all the nations of the world could reach agreement in this field . As yet we have not been able to bring that about . And even when we bring it about , we do not know that all nations will agree . We are working to that end . We think it is a desirable objective . We will hope for the best . I think it is very difficult to see economic indicators 12 months in advance and conclude just what will happen . But I believe we will have a good year in 1967 . I believe we will have good employment , good wages , good profits . And I do not see anything that would make me believe at this stage that we are going to be disappointed in those predictions . No . The answer is no to both questions . I presume you know we got two increases this year in taxes . We took from the economy through administrative and legislative action several billions of dollars . We think we took an adequate amount from the economy . We estimated our deficit for this year at 6 billion 4 million at the beginning of the year , and it turned out to be 2 billion 3 million . We passed , and I signed on March 15 , the first tax measure which reinstituted some excise taxes , accelerated the payment of others , increased the withholdings , both by administrative and legislative action . In September we submitted another program that involved the investment credit provision , and , by suspending that , increasing our tax revenues a very minimal amount . Primarily that measure was passed in order to cool the economy . Most of the economists felt that was desirable and the Congress agreed . I do not believe that we could have passed any more tax measures than we passed . I think on the two tax measures passed it was desirable that we did so . In March I met with leaders of business in the country , dozens of them . I consulted with leading economists . I asked them at the White House in March how many of them favored a tax increase and there was not a single hand that went up . I read in the papers in retrospect some people feel very strongly there should have been another tax increase . But in the light of the developments of the economy at this moment , I do not think so . None whatever . There has been no change . So far as the evidence that we have at this time there has been no mistake . I can only repeat to you what I have said before , and what has been said by other departments of the Government . Our orders are to bomb only military targets . Those are the only orders we have issued . We believe that our men have carried out those orders to the very best of their ability . There will be civilian casualties in connection with the bombing of military targets . There are civilian casualties taking place every day some this morning in South Vietnam . I am concerned with casualties in both South Vietnam and North Vietnam . And I wish that all of our people would be equally as concerned . I think that the quicker we can have a peace conference , the quicker we can arrange a true cease fire , the quicker we can stop this total war on both sides , the better off all of our people will be . But as long as it goes on , civilians are going to be killed , casualties will occur . And I regret every single casualty in both areas . I think that we are making the plans that we believe are in the best interest of this country . I do not think anyone can say with any precision when the peace conference will come , when a truce can be arranged , when a cease fire can be agreed upon , when agreement can be reached between nations . We are preparing our people to protect our national interest and our agreements and our commitments . lust how long they will be required to do so , I am not able to predict . If I did predict , I would have no doubt but what I would live to regret it . Yes , I think the Nation can afford to continue as we have to fight wars on both fronts . I do not think there is anyone who feels that we should not supply our men with what they need . I would differ with you in that respect . Second , I think there are those who feel that as long as we are in Vietnam , that we should reduce our expenditures every possible way here at home . I feel that we ought to take all the water that we can out of the budget . And I have spent several weeks trying to do that . But I am not one who feels , as I said last January and as I will say again next January , that we must neglect the health and the education of our children that we can overlook the needs of our cities that we must bring progress to a stop . I think that we must strengthen our people . We must continue our efforts to reduce poverty . We must continue the war against our ancient enemies just as we are continuing it in South Vietnam until aggression ceases and until we can provide each child with all the education that he can take until we can see that our families have a decent income until we can secure the measures that are necessary to improve our cities , to curb pollution , to reduce poverty . I think this Nation with a gross national product of some 700 to 800 billion can afford what it needs to spend . And I shall so recommend . The exact amounts I do not know . This year s budget was increased some because of increased needs in Vietnam . In 18 months we have sent several hundred thousand men there . Our budget this year will be somewhere between 125 and 130 billion . We cannot predict what our budget will be next year . But as has been stated by reliable authorities , and as has been written on good authority , the general figure has been between 135 and 140 billion . Some said between 137 and 140 billion it is highly speculative , allowing some 2 or 3 billion one way or the other . A great many of those decisions have not yet been made . There are several appeals pending from the military . There are several important decisions that have not yet been made in the field of health , education , and poverty . I expect to return to Washington early next week to conclude the meetings in that regard , and to have my recommendations ready for the Congress at as early a date as possible . In short , I think we can , I think we must , I think we will continue to do what is necessary at home and send our men abroad what they need to do their job . Well , I would not want to make an indictment or review all of your contributions to this matter , or all the reasons and motivations of the various people who feel that mistakes have been made . In my own judgment , we have done the best we could . We have worked at our job . We have made the decisions that we thought ought to be made . We realize that we have made some mistakes , although I know of no major decision that I have made that I would strike from the statute books tomorrow or would rewrite . I think that some of the decisions have not been popular . I think that there has been criticism of the administration . And I regret all of that . I would hope that the Nation would see things pretty much alike in the days to come . All I can say is I am going to do the best I can to make the proper decisions , those that are in the best interests of the country . And then I think if you do what is best for the country , the country will do what is best for us . We are trying to decide how much money we will spend next year in the military and civilian fields . We are trying to study developments in the economy . We are trying to determine the extent of our deficit . We are trying to anticipate , as far ahead as we can , economic indicators . We will bring all of these people together , the Treasury , the economic advisers , the Secretary of Labor , the Secretary of Commerce , the congressional leadership , and then attempt to make the recommendation that we think is justified . We are working very hard on it but we have not made a decision . We are not ready to announce one , or make a recommendation today . We do not have any definite date . The advisory committee that I have appointed has given great consideration to this . General McKee will have an announcement in connection with it shortly . Just when the decision to move ahead will come on the part of the executive , and the legislative , I am unable to predict at this moment . It is still a matter that is receiving top consideration in the administration . And of course , after we make our study and our recommendations , I am sure the Congress will give it very prompt consideration and high level consideration . But until we make ours and they conclude , we will not know definitely what will happen . We will be very glad to do more than our part in meeting Hanoi halfway in any possible cease fire , or truce , or peace conference negotiations . I would be very interested in what their response is and what they would be agreeable to before irrevocably committing this country . If you can look at all the decisions they make and their reactions , I think we would better be able to determine our own . I have said on a number of occasions that we are ready to talk , any time and anywhere , that the Vietcong will have no difficulty in making their views known to us . But all the questions turn on when are we willing to do it , and are we willing to do it . The answer to those questions is a strong yes . But up to this moment we have heard nothing from the other side . You just cannot have a one sided peace conference , or a one sided cessation of hostilities , or ask our own boys not to defend themselves , or to tie their hands behind them , unless the other side is willing to reciprocate . Now , I assure you that we are willing to meet them more than halfway , if there is any indication of movement on their part . No . Thank you , President .<speech_sep>Good afternoon , ladies and gentlemen . I intend to nominate Llewellyn Thompson to be the United States Ambassador to the Soviet Union . Because of the importance of our relations with the Soviet Union at this time , I am asking Thompson to return to a post that he has held already , and that he served for a longer period of time than any American Ambassador in this Nation s history . To succeed him as Ambassador at Large , I will appoint one of our most distinguished and experienced diplomats , Ellsworth Bunker , who served us with such great distinction in the Dominican Republic and who is presently Ambassador to the Organization of American States . To serve as my representative to the Organization of American States with the rank of Ambassador , I intend to nominate Sol Linowitz , the chairman of the board and the chief executive officer of Xerox International , Inc . Linowitz is a noted American with a long interest in foreign policy . He will also serve as United States Representative on the Inter American Committee on the Alliance for Progress , replacing Rostow . He will work closely with Secretary Rusk and Secretary Gordon , and with me in the formulation of our Latin American policies . I have accepted today with great regret the resignation of Eugene Foley as Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Economic Development . Foley is returning to private life and will be succeeded by Ross Davis . Davis is presently the Administrator of the Economic Development Administration . As you know , the United States has agreed to attend the conference in Manila on October 24th and 25th . This will bring together the countries that are most directly helping the South Vietnamese to resist aggression and to build a free nation . The Philippines , Korea , and Thailand extended the invitation which has been accepted now by South Vietnam , Australia , New Zealand , and the United States . The details of the meeting including the agenda are now being worked out in consultation among all the participants . President Marcos of the Philippines has already indicated the scope of the conference , and we expect to review the military progress being made in the field to hear the South Vietnamese plans for further evolution toward representative government , accelerated security of the countryside , and a strengthened economy while curbing inflation to examine how the other nations present can best support all these efforts and to explore the prospects for peaceful settlement of the Vietnamese conflict , in the light of all the proposals . Much of this effort is consistent with the work at Honolulu in February which I considered highly successful . At that meeting the Government of South Vietnam reinforced its determination to move toward a democratic constitution and an elected government to take concrete steps to combat inflation to invite Vietcong to join them through the Open Arms program and to multiply efforts in health , education , and agriculture , especially in the countryside . Each of these steps , as you know . , has produced results since our meeting in Honolulu in February . And we are very hopeful that they will receive increased support in our discussions in Manila . Once aggression has been defeated , a common dedication will also be necessary for the rehabilitation and the development of Vietnam . Finally , I have agreed to speak to the National Conference of Editorial Writers in New York City tomorrow on our European policy . Now I will be glad to take any questions that you may have to ask . I think it is very evident that some of these candidates to whom you refer differ with certain of my policies that deal with equal rights and equal treatment for all of our citizens . These gubernatorial candidates that you refer to have not asked me to support them and I have no plans to do so . I doubt that the President should get into every race in every State . No consideration has been given at this time to any such program or any such visit . No , I think Moyers covered that in his press conference yesterday . We are , of course , hopeful that any action we could take would be reciprocated and would lead in that direction . But there is nothing that I could say that would be encouraging to you along that line as a result of that action . I think that every person will draw his own conclusions about the section of the country he is in and the local issues that may exist . I have no doubt but what our full employment program , our Vietnam engagement , our domestic problems including our civil rights problems will all play a part in some of the campaigns . I think it will differ from place to place and candidate to candidate . I think the 89th Congress , which is made up of both Democrats and Republicans , but predominantly Democrats , has been a very effective and productive Congress in the field of education . It has passed 18 far reaching educational measures , 24 health measures . It has passed more educational measures this Congress than all the other 88 Congresses combined . I believe that most of the Members of that Congress will return home with a very fine record to support them . And I think that most of them will be reelected . I think a good many things have a bearing on market fluctuations . I think the high interest rates , I think the attractiveness of other securities , I think some of the uncertainties that exist concerning how much money the Government itself will be spending next year , I think the questions of doubt about our tax policy all of those are given weight , too . But I think most of the people in this country feel like 1966 has been a very good year . There has never been a better one . And I believe that 1967 will be equally as good . Yes . We think the leaders of that country are doing their best to build a stable government . We think that is very important to the people of this world . We felt ourselves in a position to be helpful . The need was great . We carefully evaluated the requests and decided it would be in the best interests of our own people , as well as the people of Indonesia , to extend the assistance we did . I am glad that we have taken that action . First , I would not concur with your legal analysis of the bill . Second , I am glad of the opportunity that you have given me to state that I believe there is no domestic problem that is more critical than the problem of rebuilding our cities and giving our people who live in the cities opportunities to develop as healthy , educated , productive citizens of our society citizens who have the ability to get and to hold jobs , and to take pride in the place in which they live . In order to try to get at the root cause of the problems of the cities , I asked a task force of bipartisan leaders of this Nation to make a careful study of this measure . Their recommendations are contained in the demonstration cities bill . Hearings have already been held . The Senate carefully and thoroughly debated the measure and passed it by an overwhelming majority . I do not think they gave to it either the interpretation that you place upon it or the fears that you express . I do hope that the House will take prompt and favorable action early next week . As I said in the beginning , and as I would repeat again , I think it is one of the most important pieces of legislation for the good of all American mankind that we can act upon this session . Well , I think the record speaks for itself . We have recommended approximately 90 bills to this session of Congress , after having the most productive session , the last session , in our history . We have passed through both Houses about 75 of those 90 bills . I would suspect in the next 10 days we can pass another 10 . When you pass 85 bills out of 90 recommended , I think that is a pretty good box score . We passed two measures through the House that had a majority for them in the Senate , but we could not get them voted on 14 b and the civil rights bill . We regret that , but there will be other days , and I am sure that in due time a majority will prevail . I think all in all we have a very outstanding record this year . I am very proud of it . I think every Member of Congress of both parties can take pride in it . No , I do not think so . I just think you had have to evaluate the critics and judge the circumstances and draw your own conclusions . And I would not want anyway to spend all afternoon talking about my critics . As I have said in Rhode Island , Indianapolis , and before the Methodist bishops in the White House last week , every citizen in this land must be concerned with law and order . The voice of reason must drown out the voice of violence . We have had very serious problems because of the conditions in our cities , the problems that exist there , and the protests made by our citizens . I hope that we can keep violence out of the picture . I have done everything that I know how , in cooperation with the mayors , the chief executives of the cities , and the chief executives of the States concerned . We are very conscious of the problem . We are very concerned about it . We are very determined to do everything within our prerogatives to see that reason prevails over violence , and that law and order always prevails . We think that the protesters themselves have the most to lose by disapproval of some of the actions that have taken place . And while we are not oblivious to the problems that bring forth the protests , we are concerned that they be protests without violence and within law and within order . Yes , I think the Federal Government must be a leader in this field and I have the 3 years I have been President tried , by word and action , to do everything I could to bring about equality among the races in this country and to see that the Brown decision affecting the integration of our schools was carried forward expeditiously and in accordance with the law to see that the civil rights acts passed in the late fifties and sixties and more recently in my administration were carried out in accordance with the intent of Congress that the law was fully adhered to and fully enforced at all times . I realize that in some instances there has been some harassment , some mistakes perhaps have been made , some people have been enthusiastic , and differences have developed . But where those mistakes have been made , I think Gardner and the Commissioner of Education have been willing to always listen to any protests that might come , and to carry out the law as Congress intended it should be . That will be the policy of our administration to continue to promote and to expedite the observance of the law of the land , and to see that all citizens of this country are treated equally without discrimination . Without passing on the accuracy of your quotation of President Eisenhower , I would say it is the policy of this Government to exercise the best judgment of which we are capable in an attempt to provide the maximum deterrence with a minimum involvement . The easiest thing we could do is get in a larger war with other nations . We are constantly concerned with the dangers of that . At the same time , we have no desire to capitulate or to retreat . So it has been the policy of your present administration to provide the strength that General Westmoreland felt was necessary to prevent the aggressor from succeeding without attempting to either conquer or to invade or to destroy North Vietnam . Our purpose is a limited one and that is to permit self determination for the people of South Vietnam . We are going to be concerned with any effort that might take on more far reaching objectives or implications . We have not gone into that in any detail at this time . If any plans develop along that line I will announce them and give you information on them . I have nothing on it now . No . I have not seen any developments in the recent weeks that would cause me to hold out hope or to give you any real justification for encouragement . We pursue every indication that we have that might offer any possibilities . We always have an open mind . And we are very anxious to find any basis for negotiation that would lead to an honorable peace . But I cannot in frankness be encouraging to you as a result of any specific action of recent weeks . I would not want to get your hopes up and have you disappointed because we did not achieve everything that I would like to see achieved . I have a great many objectives and hopes for the people of that area of the world . Two thirds of humankind lives in Asia . And we all know , I think , that their problems are very serious . Their life expectancy is very short , comparatively speaking . Their per capita income is very low . In Vietnam now we have the march of the aggressor s heel stomping on the boundaries of freedom loving people . We have the problems of men being killed there every day in an attempt to establish their right to self determination . So I would hope that those nations who are committed against aggression in South Vietnam could have a complete review of the military effort being made , and the results of that effort , together with any analysis that our leaders might care to make . I would think the political and the economic problems of that area of the world would also be a very important subject for discussion . I think that we should thoroughly explore each leader s ideas about how an honorable peace can be reached , and what course reconstruction efforts following the peace could very properly take , and how we could participate in those efforts . I would expect , if afforded the opportunity , to be called upon to review some of our thoughts about reconstruction about the developments resulting from the elections in South Vietnam , and the political developments to be expected there . I think generally speaking it will give an opportunity for the leaders of the men who are committed to battle in Vietnam to meet and explore ways of finding peace for bringing an end to the conflict for making that area of the world prosperous and peaceful in the years to come . The invitation , as you know , was extended by other countries . I am sure that they will have some specific plans to suggest . I want to be a good listener as well as an active participant . I neglected to mention that Johnson will accompany me on my trip . She will join me in most of my official schedule . During the conferences , as time permits , she will visit various projects and historic sites to gather ideas for use by her National Committee for a More Beautiful Capital and similar civic groups throughout the country . I think that will be available for you at the door . We will leave Washington October 17th . We will return via Alaska , arriving here sometime in the early part of November , November 2nd or 3rd . Our first stop will be Honolulu . We will go nonstop from Washington to Honolulu . We will have some refueling stops en route , but our next stop will be New Zealand . As you know and this has been announced several times since I became President I have wanted very much to return to the scenes of my young man days and go back to New Zealand and Australia where I spent some time in the early forties . So I will be visiting New Zealand on October 19th for 2 days Australia , October 21st and 22d Manila for the conference the 23d through the 27th Thailand from October 27th through the 30th Malaysia , October 30th and 31st Korea , October 31st through November 2d , and then we will return to the United States . I cannot add anything to the statements that I made in my message to Congress . I have succinctly summarized it . The situation today is the same as then . We are waiting to know how much the Congress will let us spend this coming fiscal year . There are 8 of the 15 appropriation bills that have not yet passed . Until they pass , we do not know what the bill will be . You cannot reduce a bill that you have not received . As soon as they are passed , we will immediately review those bills , determine how much they can be reduced , and then make a calculation of our revenue . In the meantime , I am asking Secretary McNamara to make a careful review of our proposed expenditures first , the expenditures that have already taken place for the first quarter from June through September . He will be visiting with Admiral Sharp in Honolulu . He will leave Saturday night for a visit with General Westmoreland . I hope by the time that he gets back the Congress will have sent me some of these measures so we can determine how much we can spend , what our revenues will be , what the Vietnam supplemental will be . Then we will try to make recommendations that will see that our provision is made for revenue to meet whatever deficits we have , if that is possible . I think that we cannot do this until we receive these bills and these estimates . We all should bear in mind , however , when the Congress votes add ons to the remaining eight bills , it must be borne in mind that each vote to increase is likely to be a vote to increase the revenue later . I will be specific with you just as soon as those bills get here and we analyze them . We hope we would be able to analyze them so that by the time I would have to act on them I could get some rough estimates . I am going to take whatever action is necessary to see that we have a sound fiscal policy . But I cannot take that action until the appropriation bills are voted upon and it is determined . For instance , yesterday in the Senate the committee reported a bill that provided three fourths of a billion dollars more than the Senate ultimately voted . So if we had calculated before the vote was taken , we would have been 750 million off . We will take prompt action as soon as the Congress makes its recommendations and as soon as I can ascertain from the military what their best guess is as to the expenditures for the immediate future . Thank you , President .<speech_sep>President , Secretary General , Your Excellencies , distinguished representatives , Governor Brown , ladies and gentlemen On my journey across the continent , I stopped in the State of Missouri , and there I met with the man who made the first such pilgrimage here 20 years ago as the 33d President of the United States Harry Truman . Truman sent to this Assembly his greetings and good wishes on this anniversary commemoration . He asked that I express to you for him as for myself and for my countrymen the faith which we of the United States hold firmly in the United Nations and in the ultimate success of its mission among men . On this historic and happy occasion we have met to celebrate 20 years of achievement and to look together at the work that we face in future meetings . I come to this anniversary not to speak of futility or failure nor of doubt and despair I come to raise a voice of confidence in both the future of these United Nations and the fate of the human race . The movement of history is glacial . On two decades of experience , none can presume to speak with certainty of the direction or the destiny of man s affairs . But this we do know and this we do believe . Futility and failure are not the truth of this organization brought into being here 20 years ago . Where , historically , man has moved fitfully from war toward war , in these last two decades man has moved steadily away from war as either an instrument of national policy or a means of international decision . Many factors have contributed to this change . But no one single factor has contributed more than the existence and the enterprise of the United Nations itself . For there can be no doubt that the United Nations has taken root in human need and has established a shape , and a purpose , and a meaning of its Own . By providing a forum for the opinions of the world , the United Nations has given them a force and an influence that they have never had before . By shining the light of inquiry and discussion upon very dark and isolated conflicts , it has pressed the nations of the world to conform their courses to the requirements of the United Nations Charter . And let all remember and none forget that now more than 50 times in these an years the United Nations has acted to keep the peace . By persuading nations to justify their own conduct before all countries , it has helped , at many times and in many places , to soften the harshness of man to his fellow man . By confronting the rich with the misery of the poor and the privileged with the despair of the oppressed , it has removed the excuse of ignorance unmasked the evil of indifference , and has placed an insistent , even though still unfulfilled , responsibility upon the more fortunate of the earth . By insisting upon the political dignity of man , it has welcomed 63 nations to take their places alongside the 51 original members a historical development of dramatic import , achieved mainly through peaceful means . And by binding countries together in the great declarations of the charter , it has given those principles a strengthened vitality in the conduct of the affairs of man . Today then at this time of anniversary let us not occupy ourselves with parochial doubts or with passing despair . The United Nations after 20 years does not draw its life from the assembly hails or the committee rooms . It lives in the conscience and the reason of mankind . The most urgent problem we face is the keeping of the peace . Today , as I speak , clear and present dangers in southeast Asia cast their shadow across the path of all mankind . The United Nations must be concerned . The most elementary principle of the United Nations is that neighbors must not attack their neighbors and that principle today is under challenge . The processes of peaceful settlement today are blocked by willful aggressors contemptuous of the opinion and the will of mankind . Bilateral diplomacy has yielded no result . The machinery of the Geneva conference has been paralyzed . Resort to the Security Council has been rejected . The efforts of the distinguished Secretary General have been rebuffed . An appeal for unconditional discussion was met with contempt . A pause in bombing operations was called an insult . The concern for peace of the Commonwealth Prime Ministers has received little and very disappointing results . Therefore , today I put to this world assembly the facts of aggression , the right of a people to be free from attack , the interest of every member in safety against molestation , the duty of this organization to reduce the dangers to peace , and the unhesitating readiness of the United States of America to find a peaceful solution . I now call upon this gathering of the nations of the world to use all their influence , individually and collectively , to bring to the tables those who seem determined to make war . We will support your efforts , as we will support effective action by any agent or agency of these United Nations . But the agenda of peace is not a single item . Around the world there are many disputes that are filled with dangers many tensions that are taut with peril , many arms races that are fraught with folly among small nations as well as large . And the first purpose of the United Nations is peace keeping . The first work of all members now , then , just must be peacemaking . For this organization exists to resolve quarrels outside the confines of its headquarters and not to prolong quarrels within . Where there are disputes , let us try to find the means to resolve them through whatever machinery is available or is possible . Where the United Nations requires readily available peace forces in hours and days and not in weeks or months let all pledge to provide those forces . And my country is ready . On another front of our common endeavors , I think nothing is more urgent than the effort to diminish danger by bringing the armaments of the world under increasing control . Nations rich and poor are burdened down by excessive and competitive and frightening arms . So let us all urgently commit ourselves to the rational reduction of those arms burdens . We of the United States would hope that others will join with us in coming to our next negotiations with proposals for effective attack upon these deadly dangers to mankind . And after peace , high on the agenda of man is devotion to the dignity and to the worth of the human person and the promotions of better standards of life in larger freedom for all of the human race . We in this country are committing ourselves to great tasks in our own Great Society . We are committed to narrow the gap between promise and performance , between equality in law and equality in fact , between opportunity for the numerous well to do and the still too numerous poor , between education for the successful and education for all of the people . It is no longer a community or a nation or a continent but a whole generation of mankind for whom our promises must be kept and kept within the next two decades . If those promises are not kept , it will be less and less possible to keep them for any . And that is why on this anniversary I would call upon all member nations to rededicate themselves to wage together an international war on poverty . So let us then together raise the goal for technical aid and investment through the United Nations . increase our food , and health , and education programs to make a serious and a successful attack upon hunger , and disease , and ignorance the ancient enemies of all mankind . Let us in all our lands including this land face forthrightly the multiplying problems of our multiplying populations and seek the answers to this most profound challenge to the future of all the world . Let us act on the fact that less than 5 invested in population control is worth 100 invested in economic growth . For our wars together on the poverty and privation , the hunger and sickness , the despair and the futility of mankind , let us mark this International Cooperation Year by joining together in an alliance for man . The promise of the future lies in what science , the ever more productive industrial machine , the ever more productive fertile and usable land , the computer , the miracle drug , and the man in space all spread before us . The promise of the future lies in what the religions and the philosophies , the cultures , and the wisdoms of 5 , 000 years of civilization have finally distilled and confided to us the promise of the abundant life and the brotherhood of man . The heritage that we share together is a fragile heritage . A world war would certainly destroy it . Pride and arrogance could destroy it . Neglect and indifference could destroy it . It could be destroyed by narrow nationalism or ideological intolerance or rabid extremism of either the left or the right . So we must find the way as a community of nations , as a United Nations , to keep the peace among and between all of us . We must restrain by joint and effective action any who place their ambitions or their dogmas or their prestige above the peace of all the world . And we just must find a way to do that . It is the most profound and the most urgent imperative of the time in which we live . So I say to you as my personal belief , and the belief I think of the great American majority , that the world must finish once and for all the myth of inequality of races and peoples , with the scandal of discrimination , with the shocking violation of human rights and the cynical violation of political rights . We must stop preaching hatred , we must stop bringing up entire new generations to preserve and to carry out the lethal fantasies of the old generation , stop believing that the gun or the bomb can solve all problems or that a revolution is of any value if it closes doors and limits choices instead of opening both as wide as possible . As far back as we can look until the light of history fades into the dusk of legend such aspirations of man have been submerged and swallowed by the violence and the weakness of man at his worst . Generations have come and gone , and generations have tried and failed . Will we succeed I do not know . But I dare to be hopeful and confident . And I do know this whether we look for the judgment to God , or to history or to mankind , this is the age , and we are the men , and this is the place to give reality to our commitments under the United Nations Charter . For what was for other generations just a hope is for this generation a simple necessity . Thank you very much . President , Secretary General , Your Excellencies , distinguished representatives , Governor Brown , ladies and gentlemen On my journey across the continent , I stopped in the State of Missouri , and there I met with the man who made the first such pilgrimage here 20 years ago as the 33rd President of the United States Harry Truman . Truman sent to this Assembly his greetings and good wishes on this anniversary commemoration . He asked that I express to you for him as for myself and for my countrymen the faith which we of the United States hold firmly in the United Nations and in the ultimate success of its mission among men . On this historic and happy occasion we have met to celebrate 20 years of achievement and to look together at the work that we face in future meetings . I come to this anniversary not to speak of futility or failure nor of doubt and despair I come to raise a voice of confidence in both the future of these United Nations and the fate of the human race . The movement of history is glacial . On two decades of experience , none can presume to speak with certainty of the direction or the destiny of man s affairs . But this we do know and this we do believe . Futility and failure are not the truth of this organization brought into being here 20 years ago . Where , historically , man has moved fitfully from war toward war , in these last two decades man has moved steadily away from war as either an instrument of national policy or a means of international decision . Many factors have contributed to this change . But no one single factor has contributed more than the existence and the enterprise of the United Nations itself . For there can be no doubt that the United Nations has taken root in human need and has established a shape , and a purpose , and a meaning of its Own . By providing a forum for the opinions of the world , the United Nations has given them a force and an influence that they have never had before . By shining the light of inquiry and discussion upon very dark and isolated conflicts , it has pressed the nations of the world to conform their courses to the requirements of the United Nations Charter . And let all remember and none forget that now more than 50 times in these an years the United Nations has acted to keep the peace . By persuading nations to justify their own conduct before all countries , it has helped , at many times and in many places , to soften the harshness of man to his fellow man . By confronting the rich with the misery of the poor and the privileged with the despair of the oppressed , it has removed the excuse of ignorance unmasked the evil of indifference , and has placed an insistent , even though still unfulfilled , responsibility upon the more fortunate of the earth . By insisting upon the political dignity of man , it has welcomed 63 nations to take their places alongside the 51 original members a historical development of dramatic import , achieved mainly through peaceful means . And by binding countries together in the great declarations of the charter , it has given those principles a strengthened vitality in the conduct of the affairs of man . Today then at this time of anniversary let us not occupy ourselves with parochial doubts or with passing despair . The United Nations after 20 years does not draw its life from the assembly hails or the committee rooms . It lives in the conscience and the reason of mankind . The most urgent problem we face is the keeping of the peace . Today , as I speak , clear and present dangers in southeast Asia cast their shadow across the path of all mankind . The United Nations must be concerned . The most elementary principle of the United Nations is that neighbors must not attack their neighbors and that principle today is under challenge . The processes of peaceful settlement today are blocked by willful aggressors contemptuous of the opinion and the will of mankind . Bilateral diplomacy has yielded no result . The machinery of the Geneva conference has been paralyzed . Resort to the Security Council has been rejected . The efforts of the distinguished Secretary General have been rebuffed . An appeal for unconditional discussion was met with contempt . A pause in bombing operations was called an insult . The concern for peace of the Commonwealth Prime Ministers has received little and very disappointing results . Therefore , today I put to this world assembly the facts of aggression , the right of a people to be free from attack , the interest of every member in safety against molestation , the duty of this organization to reduce the dangers to peace , and the unhesitating readiness of the United States of America to find a peaceful solution . I now call upon this gathering of the nations of the world to use all their influence , individually and collectively , to bring to the tables those who seem determined to make war . We will support your efforts , as we will support effective action by any agent or agency of these United Nations . But the agenda of peace is not a single item . Around the world there are many disputes that are filled with dangers many tensions that are taut with peril , many arms races that are fraught with folly among small nations as well as large . And the first purpose of the United Nations is peace keeping . The first work of all members now , then , just must be peacemaking . For this organization exists to resolve quarrels outside the confines of its headquarters and not to prolong quarrels within . Where there are disputes , let us try to find the means to resolve them through whatever machinery is available or is possible . Where the United Nations requires readily available peace forces in hours and days and not in weeks or months let all pledge to provide those forces . And my country is ready . On another front of our common endeavors , I think nothing is more urgent than the effort to diminish danger by bringing the armaments of the world under increasing control . Nations rich and poor are burdened down by excessive and competitive and frightening arms . So let us all urgently commit ourselves to the rational reduction of those arms burdens . We of the United States would hope that others will join with us in coming to our next negotiations with proposals for effective attack upon these deadly dangers to mankind . And after peace , high on the agenda of man is devotion to the dignity and to the worth of the human person and the promotions of better standards of life in larger freedom for all of the human race . We in this country are committing ourselves to great tasks in our own Great Society . We are committed to narrow the gap between promise and performance , between equality in law and equality in fact , between opportunity for the numerous well to do and the still too numerous poor , between education for the successful and education for all of the people . It is no longer a community or a nation or a continent but a whole generation of mankind for whom our promises must be kept and kept within the next two decades . If those promises are not kept , it will be less and less possible to keep them for any . And that is why on this anniversary I would call upon all member nations to rededicate themselves to wage together an international war on poverty . So let us then together raise the goal for technical aid and investment through the United Nations . increase our food , and health , and education programs to make a serious and a successful attack upon hunger , and disease , and ignorance the ancient enemies of all mankind . Let us in all our lands including this land face forthrightly the multiplying problems of our multiplying populations and seek the answers to this most profound challenge to the future of all the world . Let us act on the fact that less than 5 invested in population control is worth 100 invested in economic growth . For our wars together on the poverty and privation , the hunger and sickness , the despair and the futility of mankind , let us mark this International Cooperation Year by joining together in an alliance for man . The promise of the future lies in what science , the ever more productive industrial machine , the ever more productive fertile and usable land , the computer , the miracle drug , and the man in space all spread before us . The promise of the future lies in what the religions and the philosophies , the cultures , and the wisdoms of 5 , 000 years of civilization have finally distilled and confided to us the promise of the abundant life and the brotherhood of man . The heritage that we share together is a fragile heritage . A world war would certainly destroy it . Pride and arrogance could destroy it . Neglect and indifference could destroy it . It could be destroyed by narrow nationalism or ideological intolerance or rabid extremism of either the left or the right . So we must find the way as a community of nations , as a United Nations , to keep the peace among and between all of us . We must restrain by joint and effective action any who place their ambitions or their dogmas or their prestige above the peace of all the world . And we just must find a way to do that . It is the most profound and the most urgent imperative of the time in which we live . So I say to you as my personal belief , and the belief I think of the great American majority , that the world must finish once and for all the myth of inequality of races and peoples , with the scandal of discrimination , with the shocking violation of human rights and the cynical violation of political rights . We must stop preaching hatred , we must stop bringing up entire new generations to preserve and to carry out the lethal fantasies of the old generation , stop believing that the gun or the bomb can solve all problems or that a revolution is of any value if it closes doors and limits choices instead of opening both as wide as possible . As far back as we can look until the light of history fades into the dusk of legend such aspirations of man have been submerged and swallowed by the violence and the weakness of man at his worst . Generations have come and gone , and generations have tried and failed . Will we succeed I do not know . But I dare to be hopeful and confident . And I do know this whether we look for the judgment to God , or to history or to mankind , this is the age , and we are the men , and this is the place to give reality to our commitments under the United Nations Charter . For what was for other generations just a hope is for this generation a simple necessity . Thank you very much .<speech_sep>Today I am sending to the Congress my agricultural message . It is a message for all farmers and ranchers , both large and small . It is a message for all of rural America . In the Texas of my boyhood , farming was the backbone of our economy . This message that I am sending to Congress today makes it very clear that the farmer and the agricultural community are still most important in the American way of life . But this message is not only for our Nation s farmers and those who live in our rural areas . This is a message for all Americans who benefit from our unparalleled harvest of plenty . Food today is our best bargain . It is right and it is proper that a grateful Nation should properly reward those who make possible the food that sustains us all . In this message today , I make the following recommendations First , the appointment of a blue ribbon commission of Americans to assist in adapting our farm programs to the needs of tomorrow and the 20th century . I will ask this commission to conduct a fundamental examination of the entire agricultural policy of the United States of America . Second , I am taking steps to assure that benefits of Federal programs are distributed fairly between the urban and the rural areas . Third , I am proposing new loans for rural areas for better housing at lower budget costs . Fourth , I am recommending that we continue price and income support programs which are necessary to prevent a catastrophic decline in our farm income . Fifth , we will begin a long term land use program which will help achieve the best use of our land at the least possible cost . Sixth , we will take increased steps to find new markets abroad for our farm products . Secretary Freeman has just this week returned from Europe where he has been in that interest . Agriculture is one of our best dollar producers in the foreign market . It is the number one export in the American economy . This message that I have sent to Congress recognizes the great importance of an agricultural economy . Depressions and recessions are usually farm led and farm fed . During the weeks and months ahead , details of our programs for agricultural and rural America will be presented . It is my earnest hope that these programs will permit us to travel farther down the road toward our goal of parity income for American agriculture and parity of opportunity for rural America . Last week , the House of Representatives adopted a proposal that would , if brought into law , by adding an amendment on the appropriation bill , prevent the United States of America from carrying out a 30 year agreement that we had made with the United Arab Republic . This agreement was to sell surplus commodities to the United Arab Republic under what is called tide I of Public Law 480 . Yesterday the Senate passed a milder version of this proposal and moderated the House amendment . It would permit delivery of surplus commodities if the President determined it to be in the national interest . I judge it of the highest importance that the flexibility provided the President by the Senate version be sustained by the Congress . I hope the House of Representatives will accept the improvements made by the Senate committee and voted by the Senate . Because if we are to protect our vital interests in this part of the world where tensions are very high , then the President must have freedom of action to act in the best interest of all the people of this land . It is of course obvious that the relations between the United States and the United Arab Republic must be improved . It will demand effort from both countries . I cannot predict whether improvement can be achieved . But if we are to have any degree of success in this sensitive relationship the President must have some freedom of action . I earnestly suggest to the Congress that they consider this need which I believe is truly in the best interest of all of our people and is not in any manner a partisan matter , as demonstrated by the very fine speech made by the Minority Leader , Senator Dirksen , yesterday . On another matter , I should like to say that all Americans should be indignant when one American is denied the right to vote . The loss of that right to a single citizen undermines the freedom of every citizen . This is why all of us should be concerned with the efforts of our fellow Americans to register to vote in Alabama . The basic problem in Selma is the slow pace of voting registration for Negroes who are qualified to vote . We are using the tools of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 in an effort to secure their right to vote . One of those tools of course is legal action to guarantee a citizen his right . One case of voting discrimination has already led to a trial which has just been concluded . We are now awaiting a decision in this case . In the meantime I hope that all Americans will join with me in expressing their concern over the loss of any American s right to vote . Nothing is more fundamental to American citizenship and to our freedom as a nation and as a people . I intend to see that that right is secured for all of our citizens . I had planned to make these statements for the newsreels and recording , and I informed Reedy while I was here I would be glad to take any questions that might flow from them or any other questions on any subject that might interest you . No . I think the statements I made last night were made in the light of the information we have at the moment and the judgments that we have exercised . I said that I had reason to believe that the reason to believe was based upon discussions that have taken place between the representatives of the Government of the United States and the Soviet Union . The details of the exchanges will be made public as soon as they are definite . I have only seen the very brief press report regarding General de Gaulle s conference , which apparently has just concluded before this meeting , and I would much prefer to await a full report on the exact statement before getting into any detailed discussion involving the General s observations . It is the position of this country , however , we believe , that the problems of the United Nations are traceable not to the United Nations Charter but to those countries which have violated either the spirit or the letter of the charter , because we believe that the framework for world progress and peace is in the charter . And I will be glad to respectfully review any observations the General has made and give due consideration to them . President , there has been some criticism both abroad and here because Vice President Humphrey was not sent to London to the Churchill funeral . Would you care to go into your reasons and what motivated you in selecting the American delegation Well , at first I thought I would hope that I would be able to go if my physical condition permitted . I asked that we defer final decisions until the doctors could act . But I had my staff contact President Truman and President Eisenhower and express the hope they could accompany me . President Truman was unable to go and President Eisenhower informed us that he had accepted the invitation of the family and he would be going and that he would be in attendance and would be doing other things there . I urged that he go with us in our delegation and sent a plane to California to pick him up . At the same time I personally called the Chief Justice and asked if he would agree to go with me in case we made the trip . I also was informed we had Senator Fulbright , the chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee , and Senator Hickenlooper , the ranking Republican of that committee , and eight other Senators in London at the time , some of whom would be paying their respects as representatives of this country . I felt that with the former President , with the Chief Justice of the United States Supreme Court , with the distinguished Ambassador of this country to the United Kingdom , that we had a good delegation and a high ranking delegation . I had no particular reason for not asking the Vice President to go , although the Vice President , as you may or may not have observed , was addressing the delegates from 50 States at noon the day the plane left at 7 30 in the morning , on his new responsibilities in the field of civil rights . I am glad to have the press reactions and the reactions abroad on the protocol involved in connection with funerals . I had served as Vice President for 3 years and it had never occurred to me and I had never had it brought to my attention so vividly that it was the duty and the function of the Vice President to be present at all official funerals . On occasions during the 3 years I was Vice President I attended one or two funerals representing this country , but there were many representatives from many walks of life . I did review the list of delegates representing their countries at the Churchill funeral and I did not observe that other nations sent in most instances either their top man or the next man necessarily . I thought we had a rather well rounded delegation in the former President , the Secretary of State , the Senators who were present , the Chief Justice of our Supreme Court . In the light of your interest and other interests , I may have made a mistake by asking the Chief Justice to go and not asking the Vice President . I will bear in mind in connection with any future funerals your very strong feelings in the matter and try to act in accordance with our national interest . Yes . There has been no change in the position of this country in regard to our desire or our determination to help the people of Viet Nam preserve their freedom . I frequently observe to the people of this country that our basic commitment to Viet Nam was made in a statement 10 years ago by our President , to the general effect that we would help the people of Viet Nam help themselves . Now we have difficulties from day to day and sometimes they increase with the hours , and we have Bundy out in Viet Nam now on a regular exchange of views with our spokesmen and our representatives in that area . Normally , about every 6 weeks or 2 months we ask our Ambassador and our military advisers to bring us a full exchange of views . General Taylor was here , I believe , in July and again in September and maybe in December , and he was due to come back here in February . In the light of the recent developments out there , he thought that it would be better if Bundy came out there at this particular time than for him to take the time out for a trip back to the United States . So in accordance with his suggestion I recommended that Bundy go there and that General Taylor bring him up to date on the military situation in that country , on the political situation in that country , and give us his views as to what our course should be in trying to continue to be more effective and efficient in aiding the people of Viet Nam to preserve their freedom . Bundy will be back on the weekend . He no doubt will bring with him all the information that is available to our people , and I will be glad to make as much of that information available as is in the national interest . I only want to reassert this morning our determination to continue our present policy , the policy of our Government from the beginning , to try to help the people of Viet Nam help themselves to preserve their freedom . The Kosygin visit and its implications and its significance could best be interpreted by Kosygin . Our visit to South Viet Nam is required by our regular practice of exchanging views every 6 weeks or 2 months . It has nothing whatever to do with the Kosygin visit . It was planned before we had information of the Kosygin visit . What the purposes of Kosygin and what the results of his visit to Peiping or Hanoi will be are unknown to me at this time . We will have to await developments to see what flows from those meetings . I would not anticipate that we would receive such an invitation . I would comment only on the dispatch that came from unknown and unauthorized , and I rather think , uninformed sources in Paris . In my judgment that dispatch had no validity and like a good many , was completely untrue . I believe that we will continue , as I said before , to do our very best to make our effort in Viet Nam more efficient and more effective in helping the people of Viet Nam to help themselves . I would not want to speculate on what might be it this situation happened or that situation happened . I would want to cross that bridge when I came to it . But I do not anticipate crossing any such bridge as was indicated by the dispatch from Paris . It means that my position , I think , is abundantly clear that we are there to be as effective and efficient as we can in helping the people of South Viet Nam resist aggression and preserve their freedom . You will find from time to time that Senators from both the Democratic and the Republican Parties will have different viewpoints , to which they are entitled , and they will express them , as I have expressed mine . Yes . I gave a good deal of consideration to the action of the Veterans Administration in closing the installations that they recommended be closed in the interest of savings and economy and the interest of the veterans themselves . This recommendation was first made by Gleason who had served many years as Administrator of Veterans Affairs . Gleason s recommendations were sent to the appropriate people in the Budget Bureau and they studied them and agreed with Gleason and referred them to the President with their views . Upon the receipt of those recommendations I carefully studied them and sent them to the new Veterans Administrator , Driver , for his study and consideration and any action that he cared to take . Driver made a very careful study of each of the installations and made rather full recommendations back through the appropriate officials in the Budget Bureau . They forwarded Driver s recommendations back to the White House and I asked an independent attorney , one of very judicious temperament and a good many years experience in handling public property and land and installations , to make an independent study of each of the installations and each of the consolidations . He prepared for me a memorandum , in which he concurred in Gleason s recommendations , in Driver s recommendations , in the Director of the Budget s recommendations , and he said that the public interest required that the Veterans Administrator take the action that he proposed to take . I have heard from most of the representatives of the communities involved . I have heard from a good many of the people who live in those communities . We recognize the economic impact of the closing of these installations and the hardship that it brings in some instances . We are doing what we can to minimize that hardship . We do not feel that we are justified in taking the taxpayers money to support a hospital that in many instances the people feel should not have been so located to begin with , in some instances is not modern , in other instances the head of the medical facilities of the Veterans Administration urged that they never he established to begin with because they could not attract outstanding military and professional medical people . And it is our judgment that we are not justified in paying 5 or 6 a day more to keep veterans , service connected or non service connected , in one of these smaller hospitals when he could get the best modern medicine available at a much cheaper cost in a hospital in the area . Now Congress may have a different viewpoint . I have observed that they have asked us to permit the Independent Offices Committee of the Senate Appropriations Committee to look further into it . The chairman of the House Veterans Committee was consulted before we took this action , and he proposes to make a close study of it now in the House as they have done in the Senate . We will , of course , supply all the information we have and we will receive all the information that anyone else has to offer , and we will always be glad to give it consideration . But the judgments we have made , insofar as we can now determine , were made on the best facts available , and we do not believe that the national interests of all of our people justify the waste that will occur if we satisfy the narrow local requirements . As desirable as they may be to the local community , they do not necessarily serve the national interest . They take my blood pressure practically every morning . They look at my throat . The comments now are they think I am doing very well , and most of the symptoms of the infection I had are gone . Although I do not feel as bouncy as I did before I went to the hospital , I am putting in a rather full day these days . I had a bowl of soup in my office for lunch yesterday and worked until I went to the meeting last night and had my dinner after I returned . I am reasonably well caught up with my work and I feel in good shape . I would be glad to have you , if you have any specific requests that you want to pursue , talk to Burkley about it . He would be glad to give it to you . He sees me every day . No , I never indicated I wanted to wait for the Senate . I said that was a matter for the Senate , and that is what I would repeat . No , I would not care to make a comment about a matter that is under investigation in a Senate committee and is being thoroughly studied by a local grand jury . I have stated at various times that the question has been raised that I think that this is a matter for the Senate to study and if there has been any violation of the law , for the grand jury and the FBI and the Department of Justice to take appropriate action . Now I have referred to the FBI any and all information of a substantive nature that has come to my attention in this regard . That information is being presented to the grand jury and is being or has been or will be presented to the committee , and I think the committee will draw its own conclusions and I have no doubt but what the grand jury will act appropriately in the matter . No , I did not intend to prelude I did not intend to narrow our interests in the matter . I intended to make abundantly clear that we have made a commitment to help these people help themselves , and we intend to abide by it . I think that the effort in Viet Nam is an effort to help liberty loving people preserve their freedom , and realizing how much we appreciated those who helped us to obtain ours , that we want to help everyone we can preserve theirs . And our purpose there is to help the people of South Viet Nam preserve their freedom , and we are doing all we can to do that . I do not think that that is a question we are dealing with at the moment . We are working with the existing government as we have been right along . We will be exchanging views with the spokesmen for the people of South Viet Nam through Ambassador Taylor and Johnson and Bundy . 66 Gen . Maxwell Taylor , Ambassador to Viet Nam , Alexis Johnson , Deputy Ambassador to Viet Nam , and McGeorge Bundy , Special Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs . We are making a careful study of our balance of payments situation . We are very concerned with some of the developments of the last quarter , and I plan to submit , after I have adequate staff work done and have recommendations of the Council of Economic Advisers and the Treasury and the Department of Commerce , our views to the Congress . Just what specific recommendations we will make has not yet been determined . We are exploring several possibilities with the departments . We do intend to maintain the value of gold at 35 an ounce . We do intend to see that the statement as sound as a dollar is a true statement and that the dollar is sound . We do intend to take strong action to see that our balance of payments situation is improved , and we will have strong and specific recommendations in that field as soon as adequate and thorough study has been given . I would hope that it would be a matter of the next few days or few weeks , and then we will spell out the specifics . I told you of what we are doing in that area , that we had just concluded one case in Alabama . We are today awaiting a decision in that case . We intend to see that the right to vote is secured for all of our citizens . We will use the tools of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 in every State in the Union in an effort to see that that act is fully observed . Yes . I received a memorandum from Ackley last night saying that he had received some information from a good many of the companies , that other information was being obtained and being supplied and would be from time to time over the next several days and weeks that he was getting cooperation from the companies involved that as soon as he had the basic information the Council would evaluate it and would submit it to me , and that he hoped that as much of that information as was not confidential , or not obtained under a classification that it would be confidential , could be released and made public . I do not anticipate that that information from the companies or from the Council will be available in the next few days . When it is available I will give it my careful study and if it is appropriate and if it is permissible , I will make the study , as much of it as possible , available to you so the country can know all the facts that are possible . Thank you , President .<speech_sep>On this hallowed ground , heroic deeds were performed and eloquent words were spoken a century ago . We , the living , have not forgotten and the world will never forget the deeds or the words of Gettysburg . We honor them now as we join on this Memorial Day of 1963 in a prayer for permanent peace of the world and fulfillment of our hopes for universal freedom and justice . We are called to honor our own words of reverent prayer with resolution in the deeds we must perform to preserve peace and the hope of freedom . We keep a vigil of peace around the world . Until the world knows no aggressors , until the arms of tyranny have been laid down , until freedom has risen up in every land , we shall maintain our vigil to make sure our sons who died on foreign fields shall not have died in vain . As we maintain the vigil of peace , we must remember that justice is a vigil , too a vigil we must keep in our own streets and schools and among the lives of all our people so that those who died here on their native soil shall not have died in vain . One hundred years ago , the slave was freed . One hundred years later , the Negro remains in bondage to the color of his skin . The Negro today asks justice . We do not answer him we do not answer those who lie beneath this soil when we reply to the Negro by asking , Patience . It is empty to plead that the solution to the dilemmas of the present rests on the hands of the clock . The solution is in our hands . Unless we are willing to yield up our destiny of greatness among the civilizations of history , Americans white and Negro together must be about the business of resolving the challenge which confronts us now . Our nation found its soul in honor on these fields of Gettysburg one hundred years ago . We must not lose that soul in dishonor now on the fields of hate . To ask for patience from the Negro is to ask him to give more of what he has already given enough . But to fail to ask of him and of all Americans perseverance within the processes of a free and responsible society would be to fail to ask what the national interest requires of all its citizens . The law cannot save those who deny it but neither can the law serve any who do not use it . The history of injustice and inequality is a history of disuse of the law . Law has not failed and is not failing . We as a nation have failed ourselves by not trusting the law and by not using the law to gain sooner the ends of justice which law alone serves . If the white over estimates what he has done for the Negro without the law , the Negro may under estimate what he is doing and can do for himself with the law . If it is empty to ask Negro or white for patience , it is not empty it is merely honest to ask perseverance . Men may build barricades and others may hurl themselves against those barricades but what would happen at the barricades would yield no answers . The answers will only be wrought by our perseverance together . It is deceit to promise more as it would be cowardice to demand less . In this hour , it is not our respective races which are at stake it is our nation . Let those who care for their country come forward , North and South , white and Negro , to lead the way through this moment of challenge and decision . The Negro says , Now . Others say , Never . The voice of responsible Americans the voice of those who died here and the great man who spoke here their voices say , Together . There is no other way . Until justice is blind to color , until education is unaware of race , until opportunity is unconcerned with the color of men s skins , emancipation will be a proclamation but not a fact . To the extent that the proclamation of emancipation is not fulfilled in fact , to that extent we shall have fallen short of assuring freedom to the free .<speech_sep>Friends and reporters I hope you are the same and children of reporters I am so glad so many of you youngsters are here today . I want to prove to you that your fathers are really on the job sometimes . I am glad your mothers came , too . I suspect they are also very pleased to find your fathers working today . I thought you children deserved a press conference because I know that you have taken so many telephone calls for your fathers and mothers , and located your wandering parents at so many receptions , that you have become good cub reporters , too . Someone even suggested you should be accredited to the White House . Here you are . I think that that person ought to remain anonymous , at least until he has his hair cut again . When the press conference is over , I want to ask all the children to come up here and pose with me for a group picture . And let us do not have any of the mommas or poppas . They are always crowding into pictures , anyway . Now let me get the business done first and then we will have the children here . Secretary of Defense McNamara will leave Washington Friday for West Germany , where he will continue his discussions on matters of mutual defense interest with Minister of Defense von Hassel . The discussions with Minister von Hassel will include cooperative research and development , existing cooperative logistics programs and a continuation of the United States and the Federal Republic of Germany s military purchase offset program . I have asked Secretary McNamara to proceed from Bonn to Saigon , where he expects to receive firsthand reports on the progress of military and civilian operations in South Viet Nam since his last visit . The Secretary will be accompanied to Saigon by the Chief of Staff of the Army , General Wheeler , and Assistant Secretaries of Defense Arthur Sylvester and John McNaughton . I have today issued an Executive order establishing a Maritime Advisory Committee to assist the Government in considering matters of vital importance to the maritime industry . Committee membership will include the Secretary of Commerce , as Chairman . an the Secretary of Labor , the Administrator of the Maritime Administration , and an equal number of distinguished representatives of labor , management , and the public . Because of the impact of the activities of certain other governmental agencies upon maritime policies , I have requested the Secretaries of State , Agriculture , and Navy , and the Director of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service , to participate in the Committee s proceedings . The creation of this committee provides a useful forum for a careful and constructive consideration of the national defense , trade , manpower , and labor relations programs of one of our oldest and most important industries . I have today sent a letter to Senator Harry Byrd of Virginia , expressing my appreciation for the work of the Committee on Reduction of Nonessential Federal Expenditures in keeping the country informed on employment trends . Senator Byrd s reports show a favorable employment trend in recent months . The figures for March show that total civilian employment was 15 , 700 below March a year ago in the Government . I told Senator Byrd that we are going to do everything possible to hold down the regular seasonal increases in employment which occur in the spring of the year as outdoor work opens up . I am determined to hold Federal employment to the minimum required to conduct the public business effectively . I have asked the Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary of the Interior , who normally employ a good many people at this time of the year , to be very careful in the people they put on in the next few months . I have met in the last few days with key leaders of business and labor , as you know . I am pleased with the gains made by both groups , not at the expense of each other , but as the result of our record month , 108 billion expansion of gross national product . We have a higher productivity . We have lower taxes . We have a better record of price stability than any other industrial country , and some of the gains , side by side , are , for example Business corporate profits after taxes this year are running 9 billion above 1961 , 31 billion against 22 billion . Corporate cash flow after tax profits is running 16 billion above 1961 , 65 billion against 49 billion . The rate of return on stockholders equity in manufacturing corporations was 9 . 2 percent for 1960 . It was percent for 1963 11 . 4 percent for the fourth quarter of 1963 . And now for labor The long term unemployment in April was down 11 percent from March . Civilian employment after seasonal correction is up 750 , 000 from March , and 1 . 8 million over a year ago , 4 . 4 million from early 1961 , and 1 . 7 million in the past year . Total labor income is up about 50 billion after taxes in 3 years . The wage and salary share in corporate gross product has held up better in the 1961 64 expansion than in any other postwar upswing . It is above 72 percent now . It dropped to 68 70 percent in the earlier upswings . So with profits and wages and jobs all rising strongly , without rising prices , I asked business to hold the price line or even cut prices and to share productivity gains with consumers . I asked labor to hold wage increases within the bounds of the economy s productivity increases . If they do this , the country can go on to the heights of full employment and full use of our great productive potential , to the greater gain , I think , of all our countrymen . I have sent a group of businessmen to Europe , representing the meat packing and cattle industries , to explore what can be done to substantially increase exports of beef . I will receive a full report from them when they return later in the month . The Department of Defense has taken steps today to purchase an additional 40 million pounds annually of beef . This will be in addition to the 70 million pounds already announced . Final data on strikes during 1963 is encouraging and just became available . They showed that 1963 established a new postwar low in strike activity . The estimated working time lost through strikes last year was the lowest percentage since World War II 0 . 13 of 1 percent . The 941 , 000 workers involved in strikes were the fewest since 1942 . The 3 , 364 strikes that began in 1963 was the second lowest total since the war . Twice as much time was lost because of industrial injuries last year as was lost because of strikes . I want to congratulate management and labor publicly today on this very fine record they have made . I am announcing the appointment of Charlotte Moton Hubbard as Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Public Affairs . Hubbard , whose father , Robert Moton , succeeded Booker Washington as President of Tuskegee Institute , has a distinguished record in education , civic affairs , and government . In my first official foreign policy statement as President of the United States , I pledged to the representatives of Latin American countries the best efforts of this Nation toward the fulfillment of the Alliance for Progress . We are carrying out that pledge . I intend to ask the Ambassadors of each of our Alliance partners to return again to the White House , to come here next Monday to review some of our work in support of Latin American development efforts . At that time I will sign several new loan agreements and commitment letters for the most recently developed Latin American projects . While the efforts of governments are vitally important in the struggle for hemispheric progress , the efforts of private persons and private groups can also have great impact . Assistant Secretary Mann has given me a very encouraging report on the progress of the partners of the Alliance program . The program is an effort to encourage private groups in the United States to work together with Latin Americans in the hemisphere s war against poverty and ignorance and disease . During the past 6 months , private citizens in a number of States in our country have organized to establish contact with interested Latin Americans . I would like to pay these people and these groups in Latin America and the United States a very special tribute today . I thank them warmly for their interest and efforts in this most important work . I am sending to Congress today a request for a supplemental appropriation amounting to roughly 40 million for the Chamizal settlement . The additional funds will enable the United States to carry out the recently ratified Chamizal Convention . This Convention , which was approved by the Senate in December 1963 , settles a long standing boundary dispute between the United States and Mexico . With these funds , we will be able to act quickly in purchasing properties in El Paso on a basis which is designed to be fair to our own citizens . Let me also report three new developments with respect to our relations with Panama . First , Special Ambassador Anderson came to see me this morning . He has returned from a very fruitful visit to Panama , during which he met in a very cordial atmosphere with President Chiari , Special Ambassador Illueca , and with other Panamanian officials , for the purpose of having a preliminary exchange of views on S . Panamanian problems . I met with the Special Ambassadors today , both from Panama and the United States , and I expressed to both of them my sincere hope for a mutually satisfactory outcome of their talks , in view of the importance to both countries , in view of the importance to the hemisphere , in view of the importance to the free world . Second , I have received a report on the work of the special economic team to Panama , which I mentioned about 2 weeks ago . The team went to Panama on April 27 , and held a number of conversations with Panamanian economic officials and private sector representatives . The talks were most fruitful and constructive , and helped to lay the foundation for more detailed discussions later in the spring regarding cooperation in Panama s effort to improve its economy under the Alliance for Progress . Third , in an effort to further improve the formulation and execution of policy towards Panama , I have directed our Ambassador in Panama to chair a committee which includes the Governor of the Panama Canal Zone and the Commander in Chief Southern Command . This committee will meet regularly to discuss all aspects of S . Panamanian relations and make proposals regarding them . And finally , I have today accepted lifetime membership in the Vanderburgh Humane Society of Evansville , Ind . I will be happy to answer any questions , if you have any . I would hope and anticipate the civil rights bill would be disposed of in a reasonably short time . We have been debating that bill now for almost 2 months and a good many amendments have been offered and are being considered . But I hope they can pass the bill the end of the month or the early part of the next month , and then we can get on with our food stamp plan in the Senate , our poverty bill , our Appalachia bill , and our medical aid bill . I hope that we can have the pay bill reported by the committee very shortly . In the event those bills are not acted upon and some cynical people think that there may be a deliberate slowdown in the Senate for the purpose of voting on the civil rights bill among some people , and among others for the purpose of not voting on any bill . If there should be that kind of a slowdown , I would seriously consider coming back here , of course , after the Republican convention and , if necessary , coming back after the Democratic convention . The people s business must come first and I think that the people of this country are entitled to have a vote on these important measures . This administration is entitled to have a vote on them , and I am going to ask the Congress to vote them up or down . I am not anticipating what the Congress will do at this moment . I hope they will pass all the bills . If they do not pass the bills , I will seriously consider calling them back until they vote the bills up or down . I will cross that bridge when I get to it . I think that the people of Alabama decided they wanted to vote for their Governor and they expressed their sentiment just as the people of Wisconsin and the people of Indiana have done in that connection . In Alabama they voted for him and I see that it has no real consequence beyond the boundaries of Alabama . Well , I am going to Maryland tomorrow in connection with the Appalachia program . I have invited the Senators of both parties to go with me to all the States involved . I am going to take part in no primaries , as I have repeatedly said . We are constantly examining conditions in Viet Nam . As I stated earlier in the day , Secretary McNamara is going back there in the early part of this week . Secretary Rusk was there for the last 2 or 3 weeks . McNamara was there a short time ago . The people who are responsible for carrying on our operations there are constantly examining it to be sure that it is as efficient and effective as possible . I have no doubt but what they will do their job well . What officials of this administration say that we have an agreement that there will be no over flights I am not familiar with any such agreement that we have with the Russian people . Well , I think they speak very well for themselves . He got 24 percent of the vote in Wisconsin and a little less than 20 percent of the vote in Indiana . I would not think that would be less than 20 percent of the total vote polled would be any overwhelming endorsement of a man s record . Well , the story of my beagles is that they are very nice dogs and I enjoy them and I think they enjoy me . I would like for the people to enjoy both of us . Well , I strive to please , and if you will give me any indication of how you feel about the matter , I will try to work it into my plans in the future . I had observed some little comments by some of the newspaper people about their desire to have live television , and I am trying my best to accommodate them . Although I do not have it very often , I hope all of you are enjoying it today . I sometimes think that these press conferences can be conducted just as accurately and perhaps as effectively in the President s office , but I try to give you a variety . As I told you in the beginning , I always want to remain accessible . I hope the press will never be critical of me for being overaccessible . I think that people have a right to vote for any group of electors they want . I think that they should have the right to vote for any candidate and any party that they desire , without confusion . No . The only hazing I have received in that respect is from the newspaper people and I think we made a grievous error when I asked them to walk around the block with me the other day . The doctors , I think as a matter of fact , I read a report from some doctor , I do not know just which one and I have been examined frequently since I have been in the White House the last 6 months , and sometimes at greater lengths than I am being examined here today they tell me that my blood pressure is 125 over 78 and that my heart is normal . I do not have any aches and pains . I feel fine . I get adequate rest and good pay , and plenty to eat . I do not know anyone that is concerned about my health . Certainly none of my doctors are concerned about it . Yes , I think it is being effective , to the extent of the cooperation they have given us . I regret very much to see any of our allies who do not feel that they could cooperate with us all the way . We regret that , but nonetheless we are going to continue our policy of economic isolation in the hope that we can prevent the spread of Castro s communism throughout the hemisphere . We are going to constantly insist that our allies do likewise . But we do not have the responsibility for any foreign policy except our own . They will , in the last analysis , make the final decision , but we are going to continue to urge them to join us in a policy of economic isolation , so that communism will not be channeled out to other nations in this hemisphere . Yes . Senator Fulbright had announced some engagements in foreign capitals several weeks ago . When I learned that he was going to be abroad anyway , I asked him to undertake some discussions that I thought would be in the national interest . That is not an unusual thing . Senator Mansfield did that last year on behalf of the late , beloved President Kennedy , and other Senators and Congressmen frequently do it at the suggestion of the President or the State Department . I have every reason to believe that Senator Fulbright will carry on some very useful discussions and have a very good report when he returns . I stated my views on Senator Fulbright s position in my New York speech before the Associated Press . My asking him to carry on these discussions for us did not indicate either approval or disapproval . I had already indicated that we were not in agreement , in toto , with his views on either Cuba or Panama . I beg your pardon , but I am not understanding what you are saying . You will either have to speak louder or Well , I had an informal discussion with a German newspaperman , in company with a friend . In the course of that conversation I expressed to him the determination of the American people to avoid war , if at all possible , that we wanted to find a road to peace and we would do everything we could in that direction . I told him that I thought the best way to do that was to follow the Golden Rule , to do unto others as you would have them do unto you , and to try to find ways and means of finding areas of agreement . I expressed that as my own view , and as the policy of this country . I have no differences with Chancellor Erhard in that regard . I said no more to the newspaperman than I had said publicly following our visit with him , and than we said in our communique , and as I repeat today . I think it is very important to the people of the world that the leaders of the countries of the world pursue every possible road to peace and to try to achieve it . I have no doubt but what the German people will , in their own way , and through their own qualified people , follow that objective . As I say , there are no differences between Chancellor Erhard and myself now , and there have not been . Our visit was a very fruitful one and we are in complete agreement . The speech that he delivered a few days ago following this article clearly points that out . No , I think that we have to be constantly concerned with economic conditions , as I tried to indicate from my statements to you from time to time . While our unemployment has dropped from 5 . 8 to 5 . 4 , we would like to see it go down below 5 this year , as quickly as possible . We would like to see many of our young people that are now unemployed put to work under our new program that Sargent Shriver has suggested to the Congress . I think we have to be concerned with the utilization of idle plant capacity . We have to be concerned with the value of the dollar . We never know what next month or next quarter or next year may lead to . We think that now we are enjoying a very fine record , but we are constantly on the alert for any developments that may indicate otherwise . We are prepared to take whatever measures may be necessary to attempt to avoid any decline . We would not say for a moment , though , that recessions are not possible . Yes , progress has been made , and further progress , I believe , will be made following Secretary Rusk s visit in the next few days to the NATO ministers meeting . I think that a good many countries are giving serious consideration to making contributions in that area to keep communism from enveloping that part of the world . We welcome that help and we expect to receive it . Yes . I have given a great deal of thought to it . I appealed to 139 of the big corporate leaders of this country the other evening to do all they could in the way of additional capital investments to provide additional jobs . We have talked to mayors groups , we have met with Governors groups , we have met with private groups . We have urged them all to develop local plans . I have talked to the mayors of large cities , such as Pittsburgh , New York City , and other places in the country . I have talked to Governors , not only from the Appalachian States , but Governors from all over the country . We feel now that it is the job of the local community and the regional area and the State to do their local planning and not to be told from Washington what they ought to do , but to tell us what they want to do and how we can help them . Thank you , President .<speech_sep>Good evening , ladies and gentlemen I have just come from a meeting with the leaders of both parties in the Congress which was held in the Cabinet Room in the White House . I briefed them on the facts of the situation in the Dominican Republic . I want to make those same facts known to all the American people and to all the world . There are times in the affairs of nations when great principles are tested in an ordeal of conflict and danger . This is such a time for the American nations . At stake are the lives of thousands , the liberty of a nation , and the principles and the values of all the American Republics . That is why the hopes and the concern of this entire hemisphere are , on this Sabbath Sunday , focused on the Dominican Republic . In the dark mist of conflict and violence , revolution and confusion , it is not easy to find clear and unclouded truths . But certain things are clear . And they require equally clear action . To understand , I think it is necessary to begin with the events of 8 or 9 days ago . Last week our observers warned of an approaching political storm in the Dominican Republic . I immediately asked our Ambassador to return to Washington at once so that we might discuss the situation and might plan a course of conduct . But events soon outran our hopes for peace . Saturday , April 24th 8 days ago while Ambassador Bennett was conferring with the highest officials of your Government , revolution erupted in the Dominican Republic . Elements of the military forces of that country overthrew their government . However , the rebels themselves were divided . Some wanted to restore former President Juan Bosch . Others opposed his restoration . President Bosch , elected after the fall of Trujillo and his assassination , had been driven from office by an earlier revolution in the Dominican Republic . Those who opposed Bosch s return formed a military committee in an effort to control that country . The others took to the street and they began to lead a revolt on behalf of President Bosch . Control and effective government dissolved in conflict and confusion . Meanwhile the United States was making a constant effort to restore peace . From Saturday afternoon onward , our embassy urged a cease fire , and I and all the officials of the American Government worked with every weapon at our command to achieve it . On Tuesday the situation of turmoil was presented to the peace committee of the Organization of American States . On Wednesday the entire Council of the Organization of American States received a full report from the Dominican Ambassador . Meanwhile , all this time , from Saturday to Wednesday , the danger was mounting . Even though we were deeply saddened by bloodshed and violence in a close and friendly neighbor , we had no desire to interfere in the affairs of a sister republic . On Wednesday afternoon , there was no longer any choice for the man who is your President . I was sitting in my little office reviewing the world situation with Secretary Rusk , Secretary McNamara , and McGeorge Bundy . Shortly after 3 of the clock I received a cable from our Ambassador and he said that things were in danger , he had been informed that the chief of police and the governmental authorities could no longer protect us . We immediately started the necessary conference calls to be prepared . At 5 14 , almost 2 hours later , we received a cable that was labeled critic , a word that is reserved for only the most urgent and immediate matters of national security . The cable reported that Dominican law enforcement and military officials had informed our embassy that the situation was completely out of control and that the police and the Government could no longer give any guarantee concerning the safety of Americans or of any foreign nationals . Ambassador Bennett , who is one of our most experienced Foreign Service officers , went on in that cable to say that only an immediate landing of American forces could safeguard and protect the lives of thousands of Americans and thousands of other citizens of some 30 other countries . Ambassador Bennett urged your President to order an immediate landing . In this situation hesitation and vacillation could mean death for many of our people , as well as many of the citizens of other lands . I thought that we could not and we did not hesitate . Our forces , American forces , were ordered in immediately to protect American lives . They have done that . They have attacked no one , and although some of our servicemen gave their lives , not a single American civilian and the civilian of any other nation , as a result of this protection , lost their lives . There may be those in our own country who say that such action was good but we should have waited , or we should have delayed , or we should have consulted further , or we should have called a meeting . But from the very beginning , the United States , at my instructions , had worked for a cease fire beginning the Saturday the revolution took place . The matter was before the OAS peace committee on Tuesday , at our suggestion . It was before the full Council on Wednesday and when I made my announcement to the American people that evening , I announced then that I was notifying the Council . When that cable arrived , when our entire country team in the Dominican Republic , made up of nine men one from the Army , Navy , and Air Force , our Ambassador , our AID man and others said to your President unanimously President , if you do not send forces immediately , men and women Americans and those of other lands will die in the streets well , I knew there was no time to talk , to consult , or to delay . For in this situation delay itself would be decision the decision to risk and to lose the lives of thousands of Americans and thousands of innocent people from all lands . I want you to know that it is not a light or an easy matter to send our American boys to another country , but I do not think that the American people expect their President to hesitate or to vacillate in the face of danger just because the decision is hard when life is in peril . Meanwhile , the revolutionary movement took a tragic turn . Communist leaders , many of them trained in Cuba , seeing a chance to increase disorder , to gain a foothold , joined the revolution . They took increasing control . And what began as a popular democratic revolution , committed to democracy and social justice , very shortly moved and was taken over and really seized and placed into the hands of a band of Communist conspirators . Many of the original leaders of the rebellion , the followers of President Bosch , took refuge in foreign embassies because they had been superseded by other evil forces , and the Secretary General of the rebel government , Martinez Francisco , appealed for a cease fire . But he was ignored . The revolution was now in other and dangerous hands . When these new and ominous developments emerged , the OAS met again and it met at the request of the United States . I am glad to say that they responded wisely and decisively . A five nation OAS team is now in the Dominican Republic acting to achieve a cease fire to ensure the safety of innocent people , to restore normal conditions , and to open a path to democratic process . That is the situation now . I plead , therefore , with every person and every country in this hemisphere that would choose to do so , to contact their ambassador and the Dominican Republic directly and to get firsthand evidence of the horrors and the hardship , the violence and the terror , and the international conspiracy from which servicemen have rescued the people of more than 30 nations from that war torn island . Earlier today I ordered two additional battalions 2 , 000 extra men to proceed immediately to the Dominican Republic . In the meeting that I just concluded with the congressional leaders following that meeting I directed the Secretary of Defense and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff to issue instructions to land an additional 4 , 500 men at the earliest possible moment . The distribution of food to people who have not eaten for days , the need of medical supplies and attention for the sick and wounded , the health requirements to avoid an epidemic because there are hundreds that have been dead for days that are now in the streets , and that further protection of the security of each individual that is caught on that island require the attention of the additional forces which I have ordered to proceed to the Dominican Republic . In addition , our servicemen have already , since they landed on Wednesday night , evacuated 3 , 000 persons from 30 countries in the world from this little island . But more than 5 , 000 people , 1 , 500 of whom are Americans the others are foreign nationals are tonight awaiting evacuation as I speak . We just must get on with that job immediately . The American nations cannot , must not , and will not permit the establishment of another Communist government in the Western Hemisphere . This was the unanimous view of all the American nations when , in January 1962 , they declared , and I quote The principles of communism are incompatible with the principles of the inter American system . This is what our beloved President John Kennedy meant when , less than a week before his death , he told us We in this hemisphere must also use every resource at our command to prevent the establishment of another Cuba in this hemisphere . This is and this will be the common action and the common purpose of the democratic forces of the hemisphere . For the danger is also a common danger , and the principles are common principles . So we have acted to summon the resources of this entire hemisphere to this task . We have sent , on my instructions night before last , special emissaries such as Ambassador Moscoso of Puerto Rico , our very able Ambassador Averell Harriman , and others to Latin America to explain the situation , to tell them the truth , and to warn them that joint action is necessary . We are in contact with such distinguished Latin American statesmen as Romulo Betancourt and Jose Figueres . We are seeking their wisdom and their counsel and their advice . We have also maintained communication with President Bosch , who has chosen to remain in Puerto Rico . We have been consulting with the Organization of American States , and our distinguished Ambassador , than whom there is no better Ambassador Bunker has been reporting to them at great length all the actions of this Government and we have been acting in conformity with their decisions . We know that many who are now in revolt do not seek a Communist tyranny . We think it is tragic indeed that their high motives have been misused by a small band of conspirators who receive their directions from abroad . To those who fight only for liberty and justice and progress I want to join with the Organization of American States in saying , in appealing to you tonight , to lay down your arms , and to assure you there is nothing to fear . The road is open for you to share in building a Dominican democracy and we in America are ready and anxious and willing to help you . Your courage and your dedication are qualities which your country and all the hemisphere need for the future . You are needed to help shape that future . And neither we nor any other nation in this hemisphere can or should take it upon itself to ever interfere with the affairs of your country or any other country . We believe that change comes and we are glad it does , and it should come through peaceful process . But revolution in any country is a matter for that country to deal with . It becomes a matter calling for hemispheric action only repeat only when the object is the establishment of a communistic dictatorship . Let me also make clear tonight that we support no single man or any single group of men in the Dominican Republic . Our goal is a simple one . We are there to save the lives of our citizens and to save the lives of all people . Our goal , in keeping with the great principles of the inter American system , is to help prevent another Communist state in this hemisphere . And we would like to do this without bloodshed or without large scale fighting . The form and the nature of a free Dominican government , I assure you , is solely a matter for the Dominican people , but we do know what kind of government we hope to see in the Dominican Republic . For that is carefully spelled out in the treaties and the agreements which make up the fabric of the entire inter American system . It is expressed , time and time again , in the words of our statesmen and in the values and hopes which bind us all together . We hope to see a government freely chosen by the will of all the people . We hope to see a government dedicated to social justice for every single citizen . We hope to see a government working , every hour of every day , to feeding the hungry , to educating the ignorant , to healing the sick a government whose only concern is the progress and the elevation and the welfare of all the people . For more than 3 decades the people of that tragic little island suffered under the weight of one of the most brutal and despotic dictatorships in the history of the Americas . We enthusiastically supported condemnation of that government by the Organization of American States . We joined in applying sanctions and when Trujillo was assassinated by his fellow citizens we immediately acted to protect freedom and to prevent a new tyranny . And since that time we have taken the resources from all of our people , at some sacrifice to many , and we have helped them with food and with other resources , with the Peace Corps volunteers , with the AID technicians . We have helped them in the effort to build a new order of progress . How sad it is tonight that a people so long oppressed should once again be the targets of the forces of tyranny . Their long misery must weigh heavily on the heart of every citizen of this hemisphere . So I think it is our mutual responsibility to help the people of the Dominican Republic toward the day when they can freely choose the path of liberty and justice and progress . This is required of us by the agreements that we are party to and that we have signed . This is required of us by the values which bind us together . Simon Bolivar once wrote from exile The veil has been torn asunder . We have already seen the light and it is not our desire to be thrust back into the darkness . Well , after decades of night the Dominican people have seen a more hopeful light and I know that the nations of this hemisphere will not let them be thrust back into the darkness . And before I leave you , my fellow Americans , I want to say this personal word I know that no American serviceman wants to kill anyone . I know that no American President wants to give an order which brings shooting and casualties and death . I want you to know and I want the world to know that as long as I am President of this country , we are going to defend ourselves . We will defend our soldiers against attackers . We will honor our treaties . We will keep our commitments . We will defend our Nation against all those who seek to destroy not only the United States but every free country of this hemisphere . We do not want to bury anyone as I have said so many times before . But we do not intend to be buried . Thank you . God bless you . Good night .<speech_sep>