To the House of Representatives I have examined the bill to provide for the more efficient government of the rebel States with the care and anxiety which its transcendent importance is calculated to awaken . I am unable to give it my assent , for reasons so grave that I hope a statement of them may have some influence on the minds of the patriotic and enlightened men with whom the decision must ultimately rest . The bill places all the people of the ten States therein named under the absolute domination of military rulers and the preamble undertakes to give the reason upon which the measure is based and the ground upon which it is justified . It declares that there exists in those States no legal governments and no adequate protection for life or property , and asserts the necessity of enforcing peace and good order within their limits . Is this true as matter of fact It is not denied that the States in question have each of them an actual government , with all the powers executive , judicial , and legislative which properly belong to a free state . They are organized like the other States of the Union , and , like them , they make , administer , and execute the laws which concern their domestic affairs . An existing de facto government , exercising such functions as these , is itself the law of the state upon all matters within its jurisdiction . To pronounce the supreme lawmaking power of an established state illegal is to say that law itself is unlawful . The provisions which these governments have made for the preservation of order , the suppression of crime , and the redress of private injuries are in substance and principle the same as those which prevail in the Northern States and in other civilized countries . They certainly have not succeeded in preventing the commission of all crime , nor has this been accomplished anywhere in the world . There , as well as elsewhere , offenders sometimes escape for want of vigorous prosecution , and occasionally , perhaps , by the inefficiency of courts or the prejudice of jurors . It is undoubtedly true that these evils have been much increased and aggravated , North and South , by the demoralizing influences of civil war and by the rancorous passions which the contest has engendered . But that these people are maintaining local governments for themselves which habitually defeat the object of all government and render their own lives and property insecure is in itself utterly improbable , and the averment of the bill to that effect is not supported by any evidence which has come to my knowledge . All the information I have on the subject convinces me that the masses of the Southern people and those who control their public acts , while they entertain diverse opinions on questions of Federal policy , are completely united in the effort to reorganize their society on the basis of peace and to restore their mutual prosperity as rapidly and as completely as their circumstances will permit . The bill , however , would seem to show upon its face that the establishment of peace and good order is not its real object . The fifth section declares that the preceding sections shall cease to operate in any State where certain events shall have happened . These events are , first , the selection of delegates to a State convention by an election at which negroes shall be allowed to vote second , the formation of a State constitution by the convention so chosen third , the insertion into the State constitution of a provision which will secure the right of voting at all elections to negroes and to such white men as may not be disfranchised for rebellion or felony fourth , the submission of the constitution for ratification to negroes and white men not disfranchised , and its actual ratification by their vote fifth , the submission of the State constitution to Congress for examination and approval , and the actual approval of it by that body sixth , the adoption of a certain amendment to the Federal Constitution by a vote of the legislature elected under the new constitution seventh , the adoption of said amendment by a sufficient number of other States to make it a part of the Constitution of the United States . All these conditions must be fulfilled before the people of any of these States can be relieved from the bondage of military domination but when they are fulfilled , then immediately the pains and penalties of the bill are to cease , no matter whether there be peace and order or not , and without any reference to the security of life or property . The excuse given for the bill in the preamble is admitted by the bill itself not to be real . The military rule which it establishes is plainly to be used , not for any purpose of order or for the prevention of crime , but solely as a means of coercing the people into the adoption of principles and measures to which it is known that they are opposed , and upon which they have an undeniable right to exercise their own judgment . I submit to Congress whether this measure is not in its whole character , scope , and object without precedent and without authority , in palpable conflict with the plainest provisions of the Constitution , and utterly destructive to those great principles of liberty and humanity for which our ancestors on both sides of the Atlantic have shed so much blood and expended so much treasure . The ten States named in the bill are divided into five districts . For each district an officer of the Army , not below the rank of a brigadier general , is to be appointed to rule over the people and he is to be supported with an efficient military force to enable him to perform his duties and enforce his authority . Those duties and that authority , as defined by the third section of the bill , are to protect all persons in their rights of person and property , to suppress insurrection , disorder , and violence , and to punish or cause to be punished all disturbers of the public peace or criminals . The power thus given to the commanding officer over all the people of each district is that of an absolute monarch . His mere will is to take the place of all law . The law of the States is now the only rule applicable to the subjects placed under his control , and that is completely displaced by the clause which declares all interference of State authority to be null and void . He alone is permitted to determine what are rights of person or property , and he may protect them in such way as in his discretion may seem proper . It places at his free disposal all the lands and goods in his district , and he may distribute them without let or hindrance to whom he pleases . Being bound by no State law , and there being no other law to regulate the subject , he may make a criminal code of his own and he can make it as bloody as any recorded in history , or he can reserve the privilege of acting upon the impulse of his private passions in each case that arises . He is bound by no rules of evidence there is , indeed , no provision by which he is authorized or required to take any evidence at all . Everything is a crime which he chooses to call so , and all persons are condemned whom he pronounces to be guilty . He is not bound to keep any record or make any report of his proceedings . He may arrest his victims wherever he finds them , without warrant , accusation , or proof of probable cause . If he gives them a trial before he inflicts the punishment , he gives it of his grace and mercy , not because he is commanded so to do . To a casual reader of the bill it might seem that some kind of trial was secured by it to persons accused of crime , but such is not the case . The officer may allow local civil tribunals to try offenders , but of course this does not require that he shall do so . If any State or Federal court presumes to exercise its legal jurisdiction by the trial of a malefactor without his special permission , he can break it up and punish the judges and jurors as being themselves malefactors . He can save his friends from justice , and despoil his enemies contrary to justice . It is also provided that he shall have power to organize military commissions or tribunals but this power he is not commanded to exercise . It is merely permissive , and is to be used only when in his judgment it may be necessary for the trial of offenders . Even if the sentence of a commission were made a prerequisite to the punishment of a party , it would be scarcely the slightest check upon the officer , who has authority to organize it as he pleases , prescribe its mode of proceeding , appoint its members from his own subordinates , and revise all its decisions . Instead of mitigating the harshness of his single rule , such a tribunal would be used much more probably to divide the responsibility of making it more cruel and unjust . Several provisions dictated by the humanity of Congress have been inserted in the bill , apparently to restrain the power of the commanding officer but it seems to me that they are of no avail for that purpose . The fourth section provides First . That trials shall not be unnecessarily delayed but I think I have shown that the power is given to punish without trial and if so , this provision is practically inoperative . Second . Cruel or unusual punishment is not to be inflicted but who is to decide what is cruel and what is unusual The words have acquired a legal meaning by long use in the courts . Can it be expected that military officers will understand or follow a rule expressed in language so purely technical and not pertaining in the least degree to their profession If not , then each officer may define cruelty according to his own temper , and if it is not usual he will make it usual . Corporal punishment , imprisonment , the gag , the ball and chain , and all the almost insupportable forms of torture invented for military punishment lie within the range of choice . Third . The sentence of a commission is not to be executed without being approved by the commander , if it affects life or liberty , and a sentence of death must be approved by the President . This applies to eases in which there has been a trial and sentence . I take it to be clear , under this bill , that the military commander may condemn to death without even the form of a trial by a military commission , so that the life of the condemned may depend upon the will of two men instead of one . It is plain that the authority here given to the military officer amounts to absolute despotism . But to make it still more unendurable , the bill provides that it may be delegated to as many subordinates as he chooses to appoint , for it declares that he shall punish or cause to be punished . Such a power has not been wielded by any monarch in England for more than five hundred years . In all that time no people who speak the English language have borne such servitude . It reduces the whole population of the ten States all persons , of every color , sex , and condition , and every stranger within their limits to the most abject and degrading slavery . No master ever had a control so absolute over the slaves as this bill gives to the military officers over both white and colored persons . It may be answered to this that the officers of the Army are too magnanimous , just , and humane to oppress and trample upon a subjugated people . I do not doubt that army officers are as well entitled to this kind of confidence as any other class of men . But the history of the world has been written in vain if it does not teach us that unrestrained authority can never be safely trusted in human hands . It is almost sure to be more or less abused under any circumstances , and it has always resulted in gross tyranny where the rulers who exercise it are strangers to their subjects and come among them as the representatives of a distant power , and more especially when the power that sends them is unfriendly . Governments closely resembling that here proposed have been fairly tried in Hungary and Poland , and the suffering endured by those people roused the sympathies of the entire world . It was tried in Ireland , and , though tempered at first by principles of English law , it gave birth to cruelties so atrocious that they are never recounted without just indignation . The French Convention armed its deputies with this power and sent them to the southern departments of the Republic . The massacres , murders , and other atrocities which they committed show what the passions of the ablest men in the most civilized society will tempt them to do when wholly unrestrained by law . The men of our race in every age have struggled to tie up the hands of their governments and keep them within the law , because their own experience of all mankind taught them that rulers could not be relied on to concede those rights which they were not legally bound to respect . The head of a great empire has sometimes governed it with a mild and paternal sway , but the kindness of an irresponsible deputy never yields what the law does not extort from him . Between such a master and the people subjected to his domination there can be nothing but enmity he punishes them if they resist his authority , and if they submit to it he hates them for their servility . I come now to a question which is , if possible , still more important . Have we the power to establish and carry into execution a measure like this I answer , certainly not , if we derive our authority from the Constitution and if we are bound by the limitations which it imposes . This proposition is perfectly clear , that no branch of the Federal Government executive , legislative , or judicial can have any just powers except those which it derives through and exercises under the organic law of the Union . Outside of the Constitution we have no legal authority more than private citizens , and within it we have only so much as that instrument gives us . This broad principle limits all our functions and applies to all subjects . It protects not only the citizens of States which are within the Union , but it shields every human being who comes or is brought under our jurisdiction . We have no right to do in one place more than in another that which the Constitution says we shall not do at all . If , therefore , the Southern States were in truth out of the Union , we could not treat their people in a way which the fundamental law forbids . Some persons assume that the success of our arms in crushing the opposition which was made in some of the States to the execution of the Federal laws reduced those States and all their people the innocent as well as the guilty to the condition of vassalage and gave us a power over them which the Constitution does not bestow or define or limit . No fallacy can be more transparent than this . Our victories subjected the insurgents to legal obedience , not to the yoke of an arbitrary despotism . When an absolute sovereign reduces his rebellious subjects , he may deal with them according to his pleasure , because he had that power before . But when a limited monarch puts down an insurrection , he must still govern according to law . If an insurrection should take place in one of our States against the authority of the State government and end in the overthrow of those who planned it , would that take away the rights of all the people of the counties where it was favored by a part or a majority of the population Could they for such a reason be wholly outlawed and deprived of their representation in the legislature I have always contended that the Government of the United States was sovereign within its constitutional sphere that it executed its laws , like the States themselves , by applying its coercive power directly to individuals , and that it could put down insurrection with the same effect as a State and no other . The opposite doctrine is the worst heresy of those who advocated secession , and can not be agreed to without admitting that heresy to be right . Invasion , insurrection , rebellion , and domestic violence were anticipated when the Government was framed , and the means of repelling and suppressing them were wisely provided for in the Constitution but it was not thought necessary to declare that the States in which they might occur should be expelled from the Union . Rebellions , which were invariably suppressed , occurred prior to that out of which these questions grow but the States continued to exist and the Union remained unbroken . In Massachusetts , in Pennsylvania , in Rhode Island , and in New York , at different periods in our history , violent and armed opposition to the United States was earned on but the relations of those States with the Federal Government were not supposed to be interrupted or changed thereby after the rebellions portions of their population were defeated and put down . It is true that in these earlier cases there was no formal expression of a determination to withdraw from the Union , but it is also true that in the Southern States the ordinances of secession were treated by all the friends of the Union as mere nullities and are now acknowledged to be so by the States themselves . If we admit that they had any force or validity or that they did in fact take the States in which they were passed out of the Union , we sweep from under our feet all the grounds upon which we stand in justifying the use of Federal force to maintain the integrity of the Government . This is a bill passed by Congress in time of peace . There is not in any one of the States brought under its operation either war or insurrection . The laws of the States and of the Federal Government are all in undisturbed and harmonious operation . The courts , State and Federal , are open and in the full exercise of their proper authority . Over every State comprised in these five military districts , life , liberty , and property are secured by State laws and Federal laws , and the National Constitution is everywhere in force and everywhere obeyed . What , then , is the ground on which this bill proceeds The title of the bill announces that it is intended for the more efficient government of these ten States . It is recited by way of preamble that no legal State governments nor adequate protection for life or property exist in those States , and that peace and good order should be thus enforced . The first thing which arrests attention upon these recitals , which prepare the way for martial law , is this , that the only foundation upon which martial law can exist under our form of government is not stated or so much as pretended . Actual war , foreign invasion , domestic insurrection none of these appear and none of these , in fact , exist . It is not even recited that any sort of war or insurrection is threatened . Let us pause here to consider , upon this question of constitutional law and the power of Congress , a recent decision of the Supreme Court of the United States in ex parte Milligan . I will first quote from the opinion of the majority of the court Martial law can not arise from a threatened invasion . The necessity must be actual and present , the invasion real , such as effectually closes the courts and deposes the civil administration . We see that martial law comes in only when actual war closes the courts and deposes the civil authority but this bill , in time of peace , makes martial law operate as though we were in actual war , and becomes the cause instead of the consequence of the abrogation of civil authority . One more quotation It follows from what has been said on this subject that there are occasions when martial law can be properly applied . If in foreign invasion or civil war the courts are actually closed , and it is impossible to administer criminal justice according to law , then , on the theater of active military operations , where war really prevails , there is a necessity to furnish a substitute for the civil authority thus overthrown , to preserve the safety of the army and society and as no power is left but the military , it is allowed to govern by martial rule until the laws can have their free course . I now quote from the opinion of the minority of the court , delivered by Chief Justice Chase We by no means assert that Congress can establish and apply the laws of war where no war has been declared or exists . Where peace exists , the laws of peace must prevail . This is sufficiently explicit . Peace exists in all the territory to which this bill applies . It asserts a power in Congress , in time of peace , to set aside the laws of peace and to substitute the laws of war . The minority , concurring with the majority , declares that Congress does not possess that power . Again , and , if possible , more emphatically , the Chief Justice , with remarkable clearness and condensation , sums up the whole matter as follows There are under the Constitution three kinds of military jurisdiction one to be exercised both in peace and war another to be exercised in time of foreign war without the boundaries of the United States , or in time of rebellion and civil war within States or districts occupied by rebels treated as belligerents and a third to be exercised in time of invasion or insurrection within the limits of the United States , or during rebellion within the limits of the States maintaining adhesion to the National Government , when the public danger requires its exercise . The first of these may be called jurisdiction under military law , and is found in acts of Congress prescribing rules and articles of war or otherwise providing for the government of the national forces the second may be distinguished as military government , superseding as far as may be deemed expedient the local law , and exercised by the military commander under the direction of the President , with the express or implied sanction of Congress while the third may be denominated martial law proper , and is called into action by Congress , or temporarily , when the action of Congress can not be invited , and in the case of justifying or excusing peril , by the President , in times of insurrection or invasion or of civil or foreign war , within districts or localities where ordinary law no longer adequately secures public safety and private rights . It will be observed that of the three kinds of military jurisdiction which can be exercised or created under our Constitution there is but one that can prevail in time of peace , and that is the code of laws enacted by Congress for the government of the national forces . That body of military law has no application to the citizen , nor even to the citizen soldier enrolled in the militia in time of peace . But this bill is not a part of that sort of military law , for that applies only to the soldier and not to the citizen , whilst , contrariwise , the military law provided by this bill applies only to the citizen and not to the soldier . I need not say to the representatives of the American people that their Constitution forbids the exercise of judicial power in any way but one that is , by the ordained and established courts . It is equally well known that in all criminal cases a trial by jury is made indispensable by the express words of that instrument . I will not enlarge on the inestimable value of the right thus secured to every freeman or speak of the danger to public liberty in all parts of the country which must ensue from a denial of it anywhere or upon any pretense . A very recent decision of the Supreme Court has traced the history , vindicated the dignity , and made known the value of this great privilege so clearly that nothing more is needed . To what extent a violation of it might be excused in time of war or public danger may admit of discussion , but we are providing now for a time of profound peace , when there is not an armed soldier within our borders except those who are in the service of the Government . It is in such a condition of things that an act of Congress is proposed which , if carried out , would deny a trial by the lawful courts and juries to 9 , 000 , 000 American citizens and to their posterity for an indefinite period . It seems to be scarcely possible that anyone should seriously believe this consistent with a Constitution which declares in simple , plain , and unambiguous language that all persons shall have that right and that no person shall ever in any case be deprived of it . The Constitution also forbids the arrest of the citizen without judicial warrant , rounded on probable cause . This bill authorizes an arrest without warrant , at the pleasure of a military commander . The Constitution declares that no person shall be held to answer for a capital or otherwise infamous crime unless on presentment by a grand jury . This bill holds every person not a soldier answerable for all crimes and all charges without any presentment . The Constitution declares that no person shall be deprived of life , liberty , or property without due process of law . This bill sets aside all process of law , and makes the citizen answerable in his person and property to the will of one man , and as to his life to the will of two . Finally , the Constitution declares that the privilege of the writ of habeas corpus shall not be suspended unless when , in case of rebellion or invasion , the public safety may require it whereas this bill declares martial law which of itself suspends this great writ in time of peace , and authorizes the military to make the arrest , and gives to the prisoner only one privilege , and that is a trial without unnecessary delay . He has no hope of release from custody , except the hope , such as it is , of release by acquittal before a military commission . The United States are bound to guarantee to each State a republican form of government . Can it be pretended that this obligation is not palpably broken if we carry out a measure like this , which wipes away every vestige of republican government in ten States and puts the life , property , liberty , and honor of all the people in each of them under the domination of a single person clothed with unlimited authority The Parliament of England , exercising the omnipotent power which it claimed , was accustomed to pass bills of attainder that is to say , it would convict men of treason and other crimes by legislative enactment . The person accused had a hearing , sometimes a patient and fair one , but generally party prejudice prevailed instead of justice . It often became necessary for Parliament to acknowledge its error and reverse its own action . The fathers of our country determined that no such thing should occur here . They withheld the power from Congress , and thus forbade its exercise by that body , and they provided in the Constitution that no State should pass any bill of attainder . It is therefore impossible for any person in this country to be constitutionally convicted or punished for any crime by a legislative proceeding of any sort . Nevertheless , here is a bill of attainder against 9 , 000 , 000 people at once . It is based upon an accusation so vague as to be scarcely intelligible and found to be true upon no credible evidence . Not one of the 9 , 000 , 000 was heard in his own defense . The representatives of the doomed parties were excluded from all participation in the trial . The conviction is to be followed by the most ignominious punishment ever inflicted on large masses of men . It disfranchises them by hundreds of thousands and degrades them all , even those who are admitted to be guiltless , from the rank of freemen to the condition of slaves . The purpose and object of the bill the general intent which pervades it from beginning to end is to change the entire structure and character of the State governments and to compel them by force to the adoption of organic laws and regulations which they are unwilling to accept if left to themselves . The negroes have not asked for the privilege of voting the vast majority of them have no idea what it means . This bill not only thrusts it into their hands , but compels them , as well as the whites , to use it in a particular way . If they do not form a constitution with prescribed articles in it and afterwards elect a legislature which will act upon certain measures in a prescribed way , neither blacks nor whites can be relieved from the slavery which the bill imposes upon them . Without pausing here to consider the policy or impolicy of Africanizing the southern part of our territory , I would simply ask the attention of Congress to that manifest , well known , and universally acknowledged rule of constitutional law which declares that the Federal Government has no jurisdiction , authority , or power to regulate such subjects for any State . To force the right of suffrage out of the hands of the white people and into the hands of the negroes is an arbitrary violation of this principle . This bill imposes martial law at once , and its operations will begin so soon as the general and his troops can be put in place . The dread alternative between its harsh rule and compliance with the terms of this measure is not suspended , nor are the people afforded any time for free deliberation . The bill says to them , take martial law first , then deliberate . And when they have done all that this measure requires them to do other conditions and contingencies over which they have no control yet remain to be fulfilled before they can be relieved from martial law . Another Congress must first approve the Constitution made in conformity with the will of this Congress and must declare these States entitled to representation in both Houses . The whole question thus remains open and unsettled and must again occupy the attention of Congress and in the meantime the agitation which now prevails will continue to disturb all portions of the people . The bill also denies the legality of the governments of ten of the States which participated in the ratification of the amendment to the Federal Constitution abolishing slavery forever within the jurisdiction of the United States and practically excludes them from the Union . If this assumption of the bill be correct , their concurrence can not be considered as having been legally given , and the important fact is made to appear that the consent of three fourths of the States the requisite number has not been constitutionally obtained to the ratification of that amendment , thus leaving the question of slavery where it stood before the amendment was officially declared to have become a part of the Constitution . That the measure proposed by this bill does violate the Constitution in the particulars mentioned and in many other ways which I forbear to enumerate is too clear to admit of the least doubt . It only remains to consider whether the injunctions of that instrument ought to be obeyed or not . I think they ought to be obeyed , for reasons which I will proceed to give as briefly as possible . In the first place , it is the only system of free government which we can hope to have as a nation . When it ceases to be the rule of our conduct , we may perhaps take our choice between complete anarchy , a consolidated despotism , and a total dissolution of the Union but national liberty regulated by law will have passed beyond our reach . It is the best frame of government the world ever saw . No other is or can be so well adapted to the genius , habits , or wants of the American people . Combining the strength of a great empire with unspeakable blessings of local self government , having a central power to defend the general interests , and recognizing the authority of the States as the guardians of industrial rights , it is the sheet anchor of our safety abroad and our peace at home . It was ordained to form a more perfect union , establish justice , insure domestic tranquillity , promote the general welfare , provide for the common defense , and secure the blessings of liberty to ourselves and to our posterity . These great ends have been attained heretofore , and will be again by faithful obedience to it but they are certain to be lost if we treat with disregard its sacred obligations . It was to punish the gross crime of defying the Constitution and to vindicate its supreme authority that we carried on a bloody war of four years duration . Shall we now acknowledge that we sacrificed a million of lives and expended billions of treasure to enforce a Constitution which is not worthy of respect and preservation Those who advocated the right of secession alleged in their own justification that we had no regard for law and that their rights of property , life , and liberty would not be safe under the Constitution as administered by us . If we now verify their assertion , we prove that they were in truth and in fact fighting for their liberty , and instead of branding their leaders with the dishonoring name of traitors against a righteous and legal government we elevate them in history to the rank of self sacrificing patriots , consecrate them to the admiration of the world , and place them by the side of Washington , Hampden , and Sidney . No let us leave them to the infamy they deserve , punish them as they should be punished , according to law , and take upon ourselves no share of the odium which they should bear alone . It is a part of our public history which can never be forgotten that both Houses of Congress , in July , 1861 , declared in the form of a solemn resolution that the war was and should be carried on for no purpose of subjugation , but solely to enforce the Constitution and laws , and that when this was yielded by the parties in rebellion the contest should cease , with the constitutional rights of the States and of individuals unimpaired . This resolution was adopted and sent forth to the world unanimously by the Senate and with only two dissenting voices in the House . It was accepted by the friends of the Union in the South as well as in the North as expressing honestly and truly the object of the war . On the faith of it many thousands of persons in both sections gave their lives and their fortunes to the cause . To repudiate it now by refusing to the States and to the individuals within them the rights which the Constitution and laws of the Union would secure to them is a breach of our plighted honor for which I can imagine no excuse and to which I can not voluntarily become a party . The evils which spring from the unsettled state of our Government will be acknowledged by all . Commercial intercourse is impeded , capital is in constant peril , public securities fluctuate in value , peace itself is not secure , and the sense of moral and political duty is impaired . To avert these calamities from our country it is imperatively required that we should immediately decide upon some course of administration which can be steadfastly adhered to . I am thoroughly convinced that any settlement or compromise or plan of action which is inconsistent with the principles of the Constitution will not only be unavailing , but mischievous that it will but multiply the present evils , instead of removing them . The Constitution , in its whole integrity and vigor , throughout the length and breadth of the land , is the best of all compromises . Besides , our duty does not , in my judgment , leave us a choice between that and any other . I believe that it contains the remedy that is so much needed , and that if the coordinate branches of the Government would unite upon its provisions they would be found broad enough and strong enough to sustain in time of peace the nation which they bore safely through the ordeal of a protracted civil war . Among the most sacred guaranties of that instrument are those which declare that each State shall have at least one Representative , and that no State , without its consent , shall be deprived of its equal suffrage in the Senate . Each House is made the judge of the elections , returns , and qualifications of its own members , and may , with the concurrence of two thirds , expel a member . Thus , as heretofore urged , in the admission of Senators and Representatives from any and all of the States there can be no just ground of apprehension that persons who are disloyal will be clothed with the powers of legislation , for this could not happen when the Constitution and the laws are enforced by a vigilant and faithful Congress . When a Senator or Representative presents his certificate of election , he may at once be admitted or rejected or , should there be any question as to his eligibility , his credentials may be referred for investigation to the appropriate committee . If admitted to a seat , it must be upon evidence satisfactory to the House of which he thus becomes a member that he possesses the requisite constitutional and legal qualifications . If refused admission as a member for want of due allegiance to the Government , and returned to his constituents , they are admonished that none but persons loyal to the United States will be allowed a voice in the legislative councils of the nation , and the political power and moral influence of Congress are thus effectively exerted in the interests of loyalty to the Government and fidelity to the Union . And is it not far better that the work of restoration should be accomplished by simple compliance with the plain requirements of the Constitution than by a recourse to measures which in effect destroy the States and threaten the subversion of the General Government All that is necessary to settle this simple but important question without further agitation or delay is a willingness on the part of all to sustain the Constitution and carry its provisions into practical operation . If to morrow either branch of Congress would declare that upon the presentation of their credentials members constitutionally elected and loyal to the General Government would be admitted to seats in Congress , while all others would be excluded and their places remain vacant until the selection by the people of loyal and qualified persons , and if at the same time assurance were given that this policy would be continued until all the States were represented in Congress , it would send a thrill of joy throughout the entire land , as indicating the inauguration of a system which must speedily bring tranquillity to the public mind . While we are legislating upon subjects which are of great importance to the whole people , and which must affect all parts of the country , not only during the life of the present generation , but for ages to come , we should remember that all men are entitled at least to a hearing in the councils which decide upon the destiny of themselves and their children . At present ten States are denied representation , and when the Fortieth Congress assembles on the 4th day of the present month sixteen States will be without a voice in the House of Representatives . This grave fact , with the important questions before us , should induce us to pause in a course of legislation which , looking solely to the attainment of political ends , fails to consider the rights it transgresses , the law which it violates , or the institutions which it imperils .<speech_sep>Being desirous to relieve all loyal citizens and well disposed persons residing in insurrectionary States from unnecessary commercial restrictions and to encourage them to return to peaceful pursuits It is hereby ordered , That all restrictions upon internal , domestic , and coastwise commercial intercourse be discontinued in such parts of the States of Tennessee , Virginia , North Carolina , South Carolina , Georgia , Florida , Alabama , Mississippi , and so much of Louisiana as lies east of the Mississippi River as shall be embraced within the lines of national military occupation , excepting only such restrictions as are imposed by acts of Congress and regulations in pursuance thereof prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury and approved by the President , and excepting also from the effect of this order the following articles contraband of war , to wit Arms , ammunition , all articles from which ammunition is manufactured , gray uniforms and cloth , locomotives , cars , railroad iron , and machinery for operating railroads , telegraph wires , insulators , and instruments for operating telegraphic lines . IThat all existing military and naval orders in any manner restricting internal , domestic , and coastwise commercial intercourse and trade with or in the localities above named be , and the same are hereby , revoked , and that no military or naval officer in any manner interrupt or interfere with the same , or with any boats or other vessels engaged therein under proper authority , pursuant to the regulations of the Secretary of the Treasury .<speech_sep>By the President of the United States of America A Proclamation Whereas by proclamations of the 15th and 19th of April , 1861 , the President of the United States , in virtue of the power vested in him by the Constitution and the laws , declared that the laws of the United States were opposed and the execution thereof obstructed in the States of South Carolina , Georgia , Alabama , Florida , Mississippi , Louisiana , and Texas by combinations too powerful to be suppressed by the ordinary course of judicial proceedings or by the powers vested in the marshals by law and Whereas by another proclamation , made on the 16th day of August , in the same year , in pursuance of an act of Congress approved July 13 , 1861 , the inhabitants of the States of Georgia , South Carolina , Virginia , North Carolina , Tennessee , Alabama , Louisiana , Texas , Arkansas , Mississippi , and Florida except the inhabitants of that part of the State of Virginia lying west of the Alleghany Mountains , and except also the inhabitants of such other parts of that State and the other States before named as might maintain a loyal adhesion to the Union and the Constitution or might be from time to time occupied and controlled by forces of the United States engaged in the dispersion of insurgents were declared to be in a state of insurrection against the United States and Whereas by another proclamation , of the 1st day of July , 1862 , issued in pursuance of an act of Congress approved June 7 , in the same year , the insurrection was declared to be still existing in the States aforesaid , with the exception of certain specified counties in the State of Virginia and Whereas by another proclamation , made on the 2d day of April , 1863 , in pursuance of the act of Congress of July 13 , 1861 , the exceptions named in the proclamation of August 16 , 1861 , were revoked and the inhabitants of the States of Georgia , South Carolina , North Carolina , Tennessee , Alabama , Louisiana , Texas , Arkansas , Mississippi , Florida , and Virginia except the forty eight counties of Virginia designated as West Virginia and the ports of New Orleans , Key West , Port Royal , and Beaufort , in North Carolina were declared to be still in a state of insurrection against the United States and Whereas by another proclamation , of the 15th day of September , 1863 , made in pursuance of the act of Congress approved March 3 , 1863 , the rebellion was declared to be still existing and the privilege of the writ of habeas corpus was in certain specified cases suspended throughout the United States , said suspension to continue throughout the duration of the rebellion or until said proclamation should , by a subsequent one to be issued by the President of the United States , be modified or revoked and Whereas the House of Representatives , on the 22d day of July , 1861 , adopted a resolution in the words following , namely Resolved by the House of Representatives of the Congress of the United States , That the present deplorable civil war has been forced upon the country by the dis unionists of the Southern States now in revolt against the constitutional Government and in arms around the capital that in this national emergency Congress , banishing all feelings of mere passion or resentment , will recollect only its duty to the whole country that this war is not waged upon our part in any spirit of oppression , nor for any purpose of conquest or subjugation , nor purpose of overthrowing or interfering with the rights or established institutions of those States , but to defend and maintain the supremacy of the Constitution and to preserve the Union with all the dignity , equality , and rights of the several States unimpaired and that as soon as these objects are accomplished the war ought to cease . And whereas the Senate of the United States , on the 25th day of July , 1861 , adopted a resolution in the words following , to wit Resolved , That the present deplorable civil war has been forced upon the country by the disunionists of the Southern States now in revolt against the constitutional Government and in arms around the capital that in this national emergency Congress , banishing all feeling of mere passion or resentment , will recollect only its duty to the whole country that this war is not prosecuted upon our part in any spirit of oppression , nor for any purpose of conquest or subjugation , nor purpose of overthrowing or interfering with the rights or established institutions of those States , but to defend and maintain the supremacy of the Constitution and all laws made in pursuance thereof and to preserve the Union , with all the dignity , equality , and rights of the several States unimpaired that as soon as these objects are accomplished the war ought to cease . And whereas these resolutions , though not joint or concurrent in form , are substantially identical , and as such have hitherto been and yet are regarded as having expressed the sense of Congress upon the subject to which they relate and Whereas the President of the United States , by proclamation of the 13th of June , 1865 , declared that the insurrection in the State of Tennessee had been suppressed , and that the authority of the United States therein was undisputed , and that such United States officers as had been duly commissioned were in the undisturbed exercise of their official functions and Whereas the President of the United States , by further proclamation , issued on the 2d day of April , 1866 , did promulgate and declare that there no longer existed any armed resistance of misguided citizens or others to the authority of the United States in any or in all the States before mentioned , excepting only the State of Texas , and did further promulgate and declare that the laws could be sustained and enforced in the several States before mentioned , except Texas , by the proper civil authorities , State or Federal , and that the people of the said States , except Texas , are well and loyally disposed and have conformed or will conform in their legislation to the condition of affairs growing out of the amendment to the Constitution of the United States prohibiting slavery within the limits and jurisdiction of the United States And did further declare in the same proclamation that it is the manifest determination of the American people that no State , of its own will , has a right or power to go out of , or separate itself from , or be separated from , the American Union and that , therefore , each State ought to remain and constitute an integral part of the United States And did further declare in the same last mentioned proclamation that the several aforementioned States , excepting Texas , had in the manner aforesaid given satisfactory evidence that they acquiesce in this sovereign and important resolution of national unity and Whereas the President of the United States in the same proclamation did further declare that it is believed to be a fundamental principle of government that the people who have revolted and who have been overcome and subdued must either be dealt with so as to induce them voluntarily to become friends or else they must be held by absolute military power or devastated so as to prevent them from ever again doing harm as enemies , which last named policy is abhorrent to humanity and to freedom and Whereas the President did in the same proclamation further declare that the Constitution of the United States provides for constituent communities only as States , and not as Territories , dependencies , provinces , or protectorates And further , that such constituent States must necessarily be , and by the Constitution and laws of the United States are , made equals and placed upon a like footing as to political rights , immunities , dignity , and power with the several States with which they are united And did further declare that the observance of political equality , as a principle of right and justice , is well calculated to encourage the people of the before named States , except Texas , to be and to become more and more constant and persevering in their renewed allegiance and Whereas the President did further declare that standing armies , military occupation , martial law , military tribunals , and the suspension of the writ of habeas corpus are in time of peace dangerous to public liberty , incompatible with the individual rights of the citizen , contrary to the genius and spirit of our free institutions , and exhaustive of the national resources , and ought not , therefore , to be sanctioned or allowed except in cases of actual necessity for repelling invasion or suppressing insurrection or rebellion And the President did further , in the same proclamation , declare that the policy of the Government of the United States from the beginning of the insurrection to its overthrow and final suppression had been conducted in conformity with the principles in the last named proclamation recited and Whereas the President , in the said proclamation of the 13th of June , 1865 , upon the grounds therein stated and hereinbefore recited , did then and thereby proclaim and declare that the insurrection which heretofore existed in the several States before named , except in Texas , was at an end and was henceforth to be so regarded and Whereas subsequently to the said 2d day of April , 1866 , the insurrection in the State of Texas has been completely and everywhere suppressed and ended and the authority of the United States has been successfully and completely established in the said State of Texas and now remains therein unresisted and undisputed , and such of the proper United States officers as have been duly commissioned within the limits of the said State are now in the undisturbed exercise of their official functions and Whereas the laws can now be sustained and enforced in the said State of Texas by the proper civil authority , State or Federal , and the people of the said State of Texas , like the people of the other States before named , are well and loyally disposed and have conformed or will conform in their legislation to the condition of affairs growing out of the amendment of the Constitution of the United States prohibiting slavery within the limits and jurisdiction of the United States and Whereas all the reasons and conclusions set forth in regard to the several States therein specially named now apply equally and in all respects to the State of Texas , as well as to the other States which had been involved in insurrection and Whereas adequate provision has been made by military orders to enforce the execution of the acts of Congress , aid the civil authorities , and secure obedience to the Constitution and laws of the United States within the State of Texas if a resort to military force for such purpose should at any time become necessary Now , therefore , Andrew Johnson , President of the United States , do hereby proclaim and declare that the insurrection which heretofore existed in the State of Texas is at an end and is to be henceforth so regarded in that State as in the other States before named in which the said insurrection was proclaimed to be at an end by the aforesaid proclamation of the 2d day of April , 1866 . And I do further proclaim that the said insurrection is at an end and that peace , order , tranquillity , and civil authority now exist in and throughout the whole of the United States of America . In testimony whereof I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed . Done at the city of Washington , this 20th day of August , 1866 , and of the Independence of the United States of America the ninety first . ANDREW JOHNSON . By the President WILLIAM SEWARD , Secretary of State<speech_sep>WAR DEPARTMENT , ADJUTANT GENERAL S OFFICE ORDER FOR THE DISCHARGE OF CERTAIN PRISONERS OF WAR . The prisoners of war at the several depots in the North will be discharged under the following regulations and restrictions All enlisted men of the rebel army and petty officers and seamen of the rebel navy will be discharged upon taking the oath of allegiance . IOfficers of the rebel army not above the grade of captain and of the rebel navy not above the grade of lieutenant , except such as have graduated at the United States Military or Naval academies and such as held a commission in either the United States Army or Navy at the beginning of the rebellion , may be discharged upon taking the oath of allegiance . IIWhen the discharges hereby ordered are completed , regulations will be issued in respect to the discharge of officers having higher rank than captain in the army or lieutenant in the navy . IThe several commanders of prison stations will discharge each day as many of the prisoners hereby authorized to be discharged as proper rolls can be prepared for , beginning with those who have been longest in prison and from the most remote points of the country and certified rolls will be forwarded daily to the Commissary General of Prisoners of those so discharged . The oath of allegiance only will be administered , but notice will be given that all who desire will be permitted to take the oath of amnesty after their release , in accordance with the regulations of the Department of State respecting the amnesty . The Quartermaster s Department will furnish transportation to all released prisoners to the nearest accessible point to their homes , by rail or by steamboat . By order of the President of the United States TOWNSEND , Assistant Adjutant General .<speech_sep>To the Senate of the United States I have considered , with such care as the pressure of other duties has permitted , a bill entitled An act to amend an act entitled An act to amend the judiciary act , passed the 24th of September , 1789 . Not being able to approve all of its provisions , I herewith return it to the Senate , in which House it originated , with a brief statement of my objections . The first section of the bill meets my approbation , as , for the purpose of protecting the rights of property from the erroneous decision of inferior judicial tribunals , it provides means for obtaining uniformity , by appeal to the Supreme Court of the United States , in cases which have now become very numerous and of much public interest , and in which such remedy is not now allowed . The second section , however , takes away the right of appeal to that court in cases which involve the life and liberty of the citizen , and leaves them exposed to the judgment of numerous interior tribunals . It is apparent that the two sections were conceived in a very , different spirit , and I regret that my objections to one impose upon me the necessity of withholding my sanction from the other . I can not give my assent to a measure which proposes to deprive any person restrained of his or her liberty in violation of the Constitution or of any treaty . or law of the United States from the right of appeal to the highest judicial authority known to our Government . To secure the blessings of liberty to ourselves and our posterity is one of the declared objects of the Federal Constitution . To assure these , guaranties are provided in the same instrument , as well against unreasonable searches and seizures as against the suspensions of the privilege of the writ of habeas corpus , unless when , in cases of rebellion or invasion , the public safety may require it . It was doubtless to afford the people the means of protecting and enforcing these inestimable privileges that the jurisdiction which this bill proposes to take away was conferred upon the Supreme Court of the nation . The act conferring that jurisdiction was approved on the 5th day of February , 1867 , with a full knowledge of the motives that prompted its passage , and because it was believed to be necessary and right . Nothing has since occurred to disprove the wisdom and justness of the measures , and to modify it as now proposed would be to lessen the protection of the citizen from the exercise of arbitrary power and to weaken the safeguards of life and liberty , which can never be made too secure against illegal encroachments . The bill not only prohibits the adjudication by the Supreme Court of cases in which appeals may hereafter be taken , but interdicts its jurisdiction on appeals which have already been made to that high judicial body . If , therefore , it should become a law , it will by its retroactive operation wrest from the citizen a remedy which he enjoyed at the time of his appeal . It will thus operate most harshly upon those who believe that justice has been denied them in the inferior courts . The legislation proposed in the second section , it seems to me , is not in harmony with the spirit and intention of the Constitution . It can not fail to affect most injuriously the just equipoise of our system of Government , for it establishes a precedent which , if followed , may eventually sweep away every check on arbitrary and unconstitutional legislation . Thus far during the existence of the Government the Supreme Court of the United States has been viewed by the people as the true expounder of their Constitution , and in the most violent party conflicts its judgments and decrees have always been sought and deferred to with confidence and respect . In public estimation it combines judicial wisdom and impartiality in a greater degree than any other authority known to the Constitution , and any act which may be construed into or mistaken for an attempt to prevent or evade its decision on a question which affects the liberty of the citizens and agitates the country can not fail to be attended with unpropitious consequences . It will be justly held by a large portion of the people as an admission of the unconstitutionality of the act on which its judgment may be forbidden or forestalled , and may interfere with that willing acquiescence in its provisions which is necessary for the harmonious and efficient execution of any law . For these reasons , thus briefly and imperfectly stated , and for others , of which want of time forbids the enumeration , I deem it my duty to withhold my assent from this bill , and to return it for the reconsideration of Congress .<speech_sep>To the House of Representatives I return without my signature a bill entitled An act to admit the State of Arkansas to representation in Congress . The approval of this bill would be an admission on the part of the Executive that the Act for the more efficient government of the rebel States , passed March 2 , 1867 , and the acts supplementary thereto were proper and constitutional . My opinion , however , in reference to those measures has undergone no change , but , on the contrary , has been strengthened by the results which have attended their execution . Even were this not the case , I could not consent to a bill which is based upon the assumption either that by an act of rebellion of a portion of its people the State of Arkansas seceded from the Union , or that Congress may at its pleasure expel or exclude a State from the Union , or interrupt its relations with the Government by arbitrarily depriving it of representation in the Senate and House of Representatives . If Arkansas is a State not in the Union , this bill does not admit it as a State into the Union . If , on the other hand , Arkansas is a State in the Union , no legislation is necessary to declare it entitled to representation in Congress as one of the States of the Union . The Constitution already declares that each State shall have at least one Representative that the Senate shall be composed of two Senators from each State , and that no State , without its consent , shall be deprived of its equal suffrage in the Senate . That instrument also makes each House the judge of the elections , returns , and qualifications of its own members , and therefore all that is now necessary to restore Arkansas in all its constitutional relations to the Government is a decision by each House upon the eligibility of those who , presenting their credentials , claim seats in the respective Houses of Congress . This is the plain and simple plan of the Constitution and believing that had it been pursued when Congress assembled in the month of December , 1865 , the restoration of the States would long since have been completed , I once again earnestly recommend that it be adopted by each House in preference to legislation , which I respectfully submit is not only of at least doubtful constitutionality , and therefore unwise and dangerous as a precedent , but is unnecessary , not so effective in its operation as the mode prescribed by the Constitution , involves additional delay , and from its terms may be taken rather as applicable to a Territory about to be admitted as one of the United States than to a State which has occupied a place in the Union for upward of a quarter of a century . The bill declares the State of Arkansas entitled and admitted to representation in Congress as one of the States of the Union upon the following fundamental condition That the constitution of Arkansas shall never be so amended or changed as to deprive any citizen or class of citizens of the United States of the right to vote who are entitled to vote by the constitution herein recognized , except as a punishment for such crimes as are now felonies at common law , whereof they shall have been duly convicted under laws equally applicable to all the inhabitants of said State . Provided , that any alteration of said constitution , prospective in its effect , may be made in regard to the time and place of residence of voters . I have been unable to find in the Constitution of the United States any warrant for the exercise of the authority thus claimed by Congress . In assuming the power to impose a fundamental condition upon a State which has been duly admitted into the Union upon an equal footing with the original States in all respects whatever , Congress asserts a right to enter a State as it may a Territory , and to regulate the highest prerogative of a free people the elective franchise . This question is reserved by the Constitution to the States themselves , and to concede to Congress the power to regulate the subject would be to reverse the fundamental principle of the Republic and to place in the hands of the Federal Government , which is the creature of the States , the sovereignty which justly belongs to the States or the people the true source of all political power , by whom our Federal system was created and to whose will it is subordinate . The bill fails to provide in what manner the State of Arkansas is to signify its acceptance of the fundamental condition which Congress endeavors to make unalterable and irrevocable . Nor does it prescribe the penalty to be imposed should the people of the State amend or change the particular portions of the constitution which it is one of the purposes of the bill to perpetuate , but as to the consequences of such action leaves them in uncertainty and doubt . When the circumstances under which this constitution has been brought to the attention of Congress are considered , it is not unreasonable to suppose that efforts will be made to modify its provisions , and especially those in respect to which this measure prohibits any alteration . It is seriously questioned whether the constitution has been ratified by a majority of the persons who , under the act of March 2 , 1867 , and the acts supplementary thereto , were entitled to registration and to vote upon that issue . Section 10 of the schedule provides that No person disqualified from voting or registering under this constitution shall vote for candidates for any office , nor shall be permitted to vote for the ratification or rejection of the constitution at the polls herein authorized . Assumed to be in force before its adoption , in disregard of the law of Congress , the constitution undertakes to impose upon the elector other and further conditions . The fifth section of the eighth article provides that all persons , before registering or voting , must take and subscribe an oath which , among others , contains the following clause That I accept the civil and political equality of all men , and agree not to attempt to deprive any person or persons , on account of race , color , or previous condition , of any political or civil right , privilege , or immunity enjoyed by any other class of men . It is well known that a very large portion of the electors in all the States , if not a large majority of all of them , do not believe in or accept the political equality of Indians , Mongolians , or Negroes with the race to which they belong . If the voters in many of the States of the North and West were required to take such an oath as a test of their qualification , there is reason to believe that a majority of them would remain from the polls rather than comply with its degrading conditions . How far and to what extent this test oath prevented the registration of those who were qualified under the laws of Congress it is not possible to know , but that such was its effect , at least sufficient to overcome the small and doubtful majority in favor of this constitution , there can be no reasonable doubt . Should the people of Arkansas , therefore , desiring to regulate the elective franchise so as to make it conform to the constitutions of a large proportion of the States of the North and West , modify the provisions referred to in the fundamental condition , what is to be the consequence Is it intended that a denial of representation shall follow And if so , may we not dread , at some future day , a recurrence of the troubles which have so long agitated the country Would it not be the part of wisdom to take for our guide the Federal Constitution , rather than resort to measures which , looking only to the present , may in a few years renew , in an aggravated form , the strife and bitterness caused by legislation which has proved to be so ill timed and unfortunate<speech_sep>By the President of the United States of America A Proclamation Whereas in the month of July , 1861 , the two Houses of Congress , with extraordinary unanimity , solemnly declared that the war then existing was not waged on the part of the Government in any spirit of oppression nor for any purpose of conquest or subjugation , nor purpose of overthrowing or interfering with the rights or established institutions of the States , but to defend and maintain the supremacy of the Constitution and to preserve the Union , with all the dignity , equality , and rights of the several States unimpaired , and that as soon as these objects should be accomplished the war ought to cease and Whereas the President of the United States , on the 8th day of December , 1863 , and on the 26th day of March , 1864 , did , with the objects of suppressing the then existing rebellion , of inducing all persons to return to their loyalty , and of restoring the authority of the United States , issue proclamations offering amnesty and pardon to all persons who had , directly or indirectly , participated in the then existing rebellion , except as in those proclamations was specified and reserved and Whereas the President of the United States did on the 29th day of May , 1865 , issue a further proclamation , with the same objects before mentioned , and to the end that the authority of the Government of the United States might be restored and that peace , order , and freedom might be established , and the President did by the said last mentioned proclamation proclaim and declare that he thereby granted to all persons who had , directly or indirectly , participated in the then existing rebellion , except as therein excepted , amnesty and pardon , with restoration of all rights of property , except as to slaves , and except in certain cases where legal proceedings had been instituted , but upon condition that such persons should take and subscribe an oath therein prescribed , which oath should be registered for permanent preservation and Whereas in and by the said last mentioned proclamation of the 29th day of May , 1865 , fourteen extensive classes of persons therein specially described were altogether excepted and excluded from the benefits thereof and Whereas the President of the United States did , on the 2d day of April , 1866 , issue a proclamation declaring that the insurrection was at an end and was thenceforth to be so regarded and Whereas there now exists no organized armed resistance of misguided citizens or others to the authority of the United States in the States of Georgia , South Carolina , Virginia , North Carolina , Tennessee , Alabama , Louisiana , Arkansas , Mississippi , Florida , and Texas , and the laws can be sustained and enforced therein by the proper civil authority , State or Federal , and the people of said States are well and loyally disposed , and have conformed , or , if permitted to do so , will conform in their legislation to the condition of affairs growing out of the amendment to the Constitution of the United States prohibiting slavery within the limits and jurisdiction of the United States and Whereas there no longer exists any reasonable ground to apprehend within the States which were involved in the late rebellion any renewal thereof or any unlawful resistance by the people of said States to the Constitution and laws of the United States and Whereas large standing armies , military occupation , martial law , military tribunals , and the suspension of the privilege of the writ of habeas corpus and the right of trial by jury are in time of peace dangerous to public liberty , incompatible with the individual rights of the citizen , contrary to the genius and spirit of our free institutions , and exhaustive of the national resources , and ought not , therefore , to be sanctioned or allowed except in cases of actual necessity for repelling invasion or suppressing insurrection or rebellion and Whereas a retaliatory or vindictive policy , attended by unnecessary disqualifications , pains , penalties , confiscations , and disfranchisements , now , as always , could only tend to hinder reconciliation among the people and national restoration , while it must seriously embarrass , obstruct , and repress popular energies and national industry and enterprise and Whereas for these reasons it is now deemed essential to the public welfare and to the more perfect restoration of constitutional law and order that the said last mentioned proclamation so as aforesaid issued on the 29th day of May , 1865 , should be modified , and that the full and beneficent pardon conceded thereby should be opened and further extended to a large number of the persons who by its aforesaid exceptions have been hitherto excluded from Executive clemency Now , therefore , be it known that Andrew Johnson , President of the United States , do hereby proclaim and declare that the full pardon described in the said proclamation of the 29th day of May , 1865 , shall henceforth be opened and extended to all persons who , directly or indirectly , participated in the late rebellion , with the restoration of all privileges , immunities , and rights of property , except as to property with regard to slaves , and except in cases of legal proceedings under the laws of the United States but upon this condition , nevertheless , that every such person who shall seek to avail himself of this proclamation shall take and subscribe the following oath and shall cause the same to be registered for permanent preservation in the same manner and with the same effect as with the oath prescribed in the said proclamation of the 29th day of May , 1865 , namely I , _________ , do solemnly swear or affirm , in presence of Almighty God , that I will henceforth faithfully support , protect , and defend the Constitution of the United States and the Union of the States thereunder , and that I will in like manner abide by and faithfully support all laws and proclamations which have been made during the late rebellion with reference to the emancipation of slaves . So help me God . The following persons , and no others , are excluded from the benefits of this proclamation and of the said proclamation of the 29th day of May , 1865 , namely First . The chief or pretended chief executive officers , including the President , the Vice President , and all heads of departments of the pretended Confederate or rebel government , and all who were agents thereof in foreign states and countries , and all who held or pretended to hold in the service of the said pretended Confederate government a military rank or title above the grade of brigadier general or naval rank or title above that of captain , and all who were or pretended to be governors of States while maintaining , aiding , abetting , or submitting to and acquiescing in the rebellion . Second . All persons who in any way treated otherwise than as lawful prisoners of war persons who in any capacity were employed or engaged in the military or naval service of the United States . Third . All persons who at the time they may seek to obtain the benefits of this proclamation are actually in civil , military , or naval confinement or custody , or legally held to bail , either before or after conviction , and all persons who were engaged , directly or indirectly , in the assassination of the late President of the United States or in any plot or conspiracy in any manner therewith connected . In testimony whereof I have signed these presents with my hand and have caused the seal of the United States to be hereunto affixed . Done at the city of Washington , the 7th day of September , 1867 , and of the Independence of the United States of America the ninety second . ANDREW JOHNSON . By the President WILLIAM SEWARD , Secretary of State .<speech_sep>Fellow Citizens of the Senate and House of Representatives The continued disorganization of the Union , to which the President has so often called the attention of Congress , is yet a subject of profound and patriotic concern . We may , however , find some relief from that anxiety in the reflection that the painful political situation , although before untried by ourselves , is not new in the experience of nations . Political science , perhaps as highly perfected in our own time and country as in any other , has not yet disclosed any means by which civil wars can be absolutely prevented . An enlightened nation , however , with a wise and beneficent constitution of free government , may diminish their frequency and mitigate their severity by directing all its proceedings in accordance with its fundamental law . When a civil war has been brought to a close , it is manifestly the first interest and duty of the state to repair the injuries which the war has inflicted , and to secure the benefit of the lessons it teaches as fully and as speedily as possible . This duty was , upon the termination of the rebellion , promptly accepted not only by the executive department , but by the insurrectionary States themselves , and restoration in the first moment of peace was believed to be as easy and certain as it was indispensable . The expectations , however , then so reasonably and confidently entertained were disappointed by legislation from which I felt constrained by my obligations to the Constitution to withhold my assent . It is therefore a source of profound regret that in complying with the obligation imposed upon the President by the Constitution to give to Congress from time to time information of the state of the Union I am unable to communicate any definitive adjustment satisfactory to the American people , of the questions which since the close of the rebellion have agitated the public mind . On the contrary , candor compels me to declare that at this time there is no Union as our fathers understood the term , and as they meant it to be understood by us . The Union which they established can exist only where all the States are represented in both Houses of Congress where one State is as free as another to regulate its internal concerns according to its own will , and where the laws of the central Government , strictly confined to matters of national jurisdiction , apply with equal force to all the people of every section . That such is not the present state of the Union is a melancholy fact , and we must all acknowledge that the restoration of the States to their proper legal relations with the Federal Government and with one another , according to the terms of the original compact , would be the greatest temporal blessing which God , in His kindest providence , could bestow upon this nation . It becomes our imperative duty to consider whether or not it is impossible to effect this most desirable consummation . The Union and the Constitution are inseparable . As long as one is obeyed by all parties , the other will be preserved and if one is destroyed , both must perish together . The destruction of the Constitution will be followed by other and still greater calamities . It was ordained not only to form a more perfect union between the States , but to establish justice , insure domestic tranquillity , provide for the common defense , promote the general welfare , and secure the blessings of liberty to ourselves and our posterity . Nothing but implicit obedience to its requirements in all parts of the country will accomplish these great ends . Without that obedience we can look forward only to continual outrages upon individual rights , incessant breaches of the public peace , national weakness , financial dishonor , the total loss of our prosperity , the general corruption of morals , and the final extinction of popular freedom . To save our country from evils so appalling as these , we should renew our efforts again and again . To me the process of restoration seems perfectly plain and simple . It consists merely in a faithful application of the Constitution and laws . The execution of the laws is not now obstructed or opposed by physical force . There is no military or other necessity , real or pretended , which can prevent obedience to the Constitution , either North or South . All the rights and all the obligations of States and individuals can be protected and enforced by means perfectly consistent with the fundamental law . The courts may be everywhere open , and if open their process would be unimpeded . Crimes against the United States can be prevented or punished by the proper judicial authorities in a manner entirely practicable and legal . There is therefore no reason why the Constitution should not be obeyed , unless those who exercise its powers have determined that it shall be disregarded and violated . The mere naked will of this Government , or of some one or more of its branches , is the only obstacle that can exist to a perfect union of all the States . On this momentous question and some of the measures growing out of it I have had the misfortune to differ from Congress , and have expressed my convictions without reserve , though with becoming deference to the opinion of the legislative department . Those convictions are not only unchanged , but strengthened by subsequent events and further reflection . The transcendent importance of the subject will be a sufficient excuse for calling your attention to some of the reasons which have so strongly influenced my own judgment . The hope that we may all finally concur in a mode of settlement consistent at once with our true interests and with our sworn duties to the Constitution is too natural and too just to be easily relinquished . It is clear to my apprehension that the States lately in rebellion are still members of the National Union . When did they cease to be so The ordinances of secession adopted by a portion in most of them a very small portion of their citizens were mere nullities . If we admit now that they were valid and effectual for the purpose intended by their authors , we sweep from under our feet the whole ground upon which we justified the war . Were those States afterwards expelled from the Union by the war The direct contrary was averred by this Government to be its purpose , and was so understood by all those who gave their blood and treasure to aid in its prosecution . It can not be that a successful war , waged for the preservation of the Union , had the legal effect of dissolving it . The victory of the nation s arms was not the disgrace of her policy the defeat of secession on the battlefield was not the triumph of its lawless principle . Nor could Congress , with or without the consent of the Executive , do anything which would have the effect , directly or indirectly , of separating the States from each other . To dissolve the Union is to repeal the Constitution which holds it together , and that is a power which does not belong to any department of this Government , or to all of them united . This is so plain that it has been acknowledged by all branches of the Federal Government . The Executive my predecessor as well as myself and the heads of all the Departments have uniformly acted upon the principle that the Union is not only undissolved , but indissoluble . Congress submitted an amendment of the Constitution to be ratified by the Southern States , and accepted their acts of ratification as a necessary and lawful exercise of their highest function . If they were not States , or were States out of the Union , their consent to a change in the fundamental law of the Union would have been nugatory , and Congress in asking it committed a political absurdity . The judiciary has also given the solemn sanction of its authority to the same view of the case . The judges of the Supreme Court have included the Southern States in their circuits , and they are constantly , in banc and elsewhere , exercising jurisdiction which does not belong to them unless those States are States of the Union . If the Southern States are component parts of the Union , the Constitution is the supreme law for them , as it is for all the other States . They are bound to obey it , and so are we . The right of the Federal Government , which is clear and unquestionable , to enforce the Constitution upon them implies the correlative obligation on our part to observe its limitations and execute its guaranties . Without the Constitution we are nothing by , through , and under the Constitution we are what it makes us . We may doubt the wisdom of the law , we may not approve of its provisions , but we can not violate it merely because it seems to confine our powers within limits narrower than we could wish . It is not a question of individual or class or sectional interest , much less of party predominance , but of duty of high and sacred duty which we are all sworn to perform . If we can not support the Constitution with the cheerful alacrity of those who love and believe in it , we must give to it at least the fidelity of public servants who act under solemn obligations and commands which they dare not disregard . The constitutional duty is not the only one which requires the States to be restored . There is another consideration which , though of minor importance , is yet of great weight . On the 22d day of July , 1861 , Congress declared by an almost unanimous vote of both Houses that the war should be conducted solely for the purpose of preserving the Union and maintaining the supremacy of the Federal Constitution and laws , without impairing the dignity , equality , and rights of the States or of individuals , and that when this was done the war should cease . I do not say that this declaration is personally binding on those who joined in making it , any more than individual members of Congress are personally bound to pay a public debt created under a law for which they voted . But it was a solemn , public , official pledge of the national honor , and I can not imagine upon what grounds the repudiation of it is to be justified . If it be said that we are not bound to keep faith with rebels , let it be remembered that this promise was not made to rebels only . Thousands of true men in the South were drawn to our standard by it , and hundreds of thousands in the North gave their lives in the belief that it would be carried out . It was made on the day after the first great battle of the war had been fought and lost . All patriotic and intelligent men then saw the necessity of giving such an assurance , and believed that without it the war would end in disaster to our cause . Having given that assurance in the extremity of our peril , the violation of it now , in the day of our power , would be a rude rending of that good faith which holds the moral world together our country would cease to have any claim upon the confidence of men it would make the war not only a failure , but a fraud . Being sincerely convinced that these views are correct , I would be unfaithful to my duty if I did not recommend the repeal of the acts of Congress which place ten of the Southern States under the domination of military masters . If calm reflection shall satisfy a majority of your honorable bodies that the acts referred to are not only a violation of the national faith , but in direct conflict with the Constitution , I dare not permit myself to doubt that you will immediately strike them from the statute book . To demonstrate the unconstitutional character of those acts I need do no more than refer to their general provisions . It must be seen at once that they are not authorized . To dictate what alterations shall be made in the constitutions of the several States to control the elections of State legislators and State officers , members of Congress and electors of President and Vice President , by arbitrarily declaring who shall vote and who shall be excluded from that privilege to dissolve State legislatures or prevent them from assembling to dismiss judges and other civil functionaries of the State and appoint others without regard to State law to organize and operate all the political machinery of the States to regulate the whole administration of their domestic and local affairs according to the mere will of strange and irresponsible agents , sent among them for that purpose these are powers not granted to the Federal Government or to any one of its branches . Not being granted , we violate our trust by assuming them as palpably as we would by acting in the face of a positive interdict for the Constitution forbids us to do whatever it does not affirmatively authorize , either by express words or by clear implication . If the authority we desire to use does not come to us through the Constitution , we can exercise it only by usurpation , and usurpation is the most dangerous of political crimes . By that crime the enemies of free government in all ages have worked out their designs against public liberty and private right . It leads directly and immediately to the establishment of absolute rule , for undelegated power is always unlimited and unrestrained . The acts of Congress in question are not only objectionable for their assumption of ungranted power , but many of their provisions are in conflict with the direct prohibitions of the Constitution . The Constitution commands that a republican form of government shall be guaranteed to all the States that no person shall be deprived of life , liberty , or property without due process of law , arrested without a judicial warrant , or punished without a fair trial before an impartial jury that the privilege of habeas corpus shall not be denied in time of peace , and that no bill of attainder shall be passed even against a single individual . Yet the system of measures established by these acts of Congress does totally subvert and destroy the form as well as the substance of republican government in the ten States to which they apply . It binds them hand and foot in absolute slavery , and subjects them to a strange and hostile power , more unlimited and more likely to be abused than any other now known among civilized men . It tramples down all those rights in which the essence of liberty consists , and which a free government is always most careful to protect . It denies the habeas corpus and the trial by jury . Personal freedom , property , and life , if assailed by the passion , the prejudice , or the rapacity of the ruler , have no security whatever . It has the effect of a bill of attainder or bill of pains and penalties , not upon a few individuals , but upon whole masses , including the millions who inhabit the subject States , and even their unborn children . These wrongs , being expressly forbidden , can not be constitutionally inflicted upon any portion of our people , no matter how they may have come within our jurisdiction , and no matter whether they live in States , Territories , or districts . I have no desire to save from the proper and just consequences of their great crime those who engaged in rebellion against the Government , but as a mode of punishment the measures under consideration are the most unreasonable that could be invented . Many of those people are perfectly innocent many kept their fidelity to the Union untainted to the last many were incapable of any legal offense a large proportion even of the persons able to bear arms were forced into rebellion against their will , and of those who are guilty with their own consent the degrees of guilt are as various as the shades of their character and temper . But these acts of Congress confound them all together in one common doom . Indiscriminate vengeance upon classes , sects , and parties , or upon whole communities , for offenses committed by a portion of them against the governments to which they owed obedience was common in the barbarous ages of the world but Christianity and civilization have made such progress that recourse to a punishment so cruel and unjust would meet with the condemnation of all unprejudiced and right minded men . The punitive justice of this age , and especially of this country , does not consist in stripping whole States of their liberties and reducing all their people , without distinction , to the condition of slavery . It deals separately with each individual , confines itself to the forms of law , and vindicates its own purity by an impartial examination of every case before a competent judicial tribunal . If this does not satisfy all our desires with regard to Southern rebels , let us console ourselves by reflecting that a free Constitution , triumphant in war and unbroken in peace , is worth far more to us and our children than the gratification of any present feeling . I am aware it is assumed that this system of government for the Southern States is not to be perpetual . It is true this military government is to be only provisional , but it is through this temporary evil that a greater evil is to be made perpetual . If the guaranties of the Constitution can be broken provisionally to serve a temporary purpose , and in a part only of the country , we can destroy them everywhere and for all time . Arbitrary measures often change , but they generally change for the worse . It is the curse of despotism that it has no halting place . The intermitted exercise of its power brings no sense of security to its subjects , for they can never know what more they will be called to endure when its red right hand is armed to plague them again . Nor is it possible to conjecture how or where power , unrestrained by law , may seek its next victims . The States that are still free may be enslaved at any moment for if the Constitution does not protect all , it protects none . It is manifestly and avowedly the object of these laws to confer upon Negroes the privilege of voting and to disfranchise such a number of white citizens as will give the former a clear majority at all elections in the Southern States . This , to the minds of some persons , is so important that a violation of the Constitution is justified as a means of bringing it about . The morality is always false which excuses a wrong because it proposes to accomplish a desirable end . We are not permitted to do evil that good may come . But in this case the end itself is evil , as well as the means . The subjugation of the States to Negro domination would be worse than the military despotism under which they are now suffering . It was believed beforehand that the people would endure any amount of military oppression for any length of time rather than degrade themselves by subjection to the Negro race . Therefore they have been left without a choice . Negro suffrage was established by act of Congress , and the military officers were commanded to superintend the process of clothing the Negro race with the political privileges torn from white men . The blacks in the South are entitled to be well and humanely governed , and to have the protection of just laws for all their rights of person and property . If it were practicable at this time to give them a Government exclusively their own , under which they might manage their own affairs in their own way , it would become a grave question whether we ought to do so , or whether common humanity would not require us to save them from themselves . But under the circumstances this is only a speculative point . It is not proposed merely that they shall govern themselves , but that they shall rule the white race , make and administer State laws , elect Presidents and members of Congress , and shape to a greater or less extent the future destiny of the whole country . Would such a trust and power be safe in such hands The peculiar qualities which should characterize any people who are fit to decide upon the management of public affairs for a great state have seldom been combined . It is the glory of white men to know that they have had these qualities in sufficient measure to build upon this continent a great political fabric and to preserve its stability for more than ninety years , while in every other part of the world all similar experiments have failed . But if anything can be proved by known facts , if all reasoning upon evidence is not abandoned , it must be acknowledged that in the progress of nations Negroes have shown less capacity for government than any other race of people . No independent government of any form has ever been successful in their hands . On the contrary , wherever they have been left to their own devices they have shown a constant tendency to relapse into barbarism . In the Southern States , however , Congress has undertaken to confer upon them the privilege of the ballot . Just released from slavery , it may be doubted whether as a class they know more than their ancestors how to organize and regulate civil society . Indeed , it is admitted that the blacks of the South are not only regardless of the rights of property , but so utterly ignorant of public affairs that their voting can consist in nothing more than carrying a ballot to the place where they are directed to deposit it . I need not remind you that the exercise of the elective franchise is the highest attribute of an American citizen , and that when guided by virtue , intelligence , patriotism , and a proper appreciation of our free institutions it constitutes the true basis of a democratic form of government , in which the sovereign power is lodged in the body of the people . A trust artificially created , not for its own sake , but solely as a means of promoting the general welfare , its influence for good must necessarily depend upon the elevated character and true allegiance of the elector . It ought , therefore , to be reposed in none except those who are fitted morally and mentally to administer it well for if conferred upon persons who do not justly estimate its value and who are indifferent as to its results , it will only serve as a means of placing power in the hands of the unprincipled and ambitious , and must eventuate in the complete destruction of that liberty of which it should be the most powerful conservator . I have therefore heretofore urged upon your attention the great danger to be apprehended from an untimely extension of the elective franchise to any new class in our country , especially when the large majority of that class , in wielding the power thus placed in their hands , can not be expected correctly to comprehend the duties and responsibilities which pertain to suffrage . Yesterday , as it were , 4 , 000 , 000 persons were held in a condition of slavery that had existed for generations to day they are freemen and are assumed by law to be citizens . It can not be presumed , from their previous condition of servitude , that as a class they are as well informed as to the nature of our Government as the intelligent foreigner who makes our land the home of his choice . In the case of the latter neither a residence of five years and the knowledge of our institutions which it gives nor attachment to the principles of the Constitution are the only conditions upon which he can be admitted to citizenship he must prove in addition a good moral character , and thus give reasonable ground for the belief that he will be faithful to the obligations which he assumes as a citizen of the Republic . Where a people the source of all political power speak by their suffrages through the instrumentality of the ballot box , it must be carefully guarded against the control of those who are corrupt in principle and enemies of free institutions , for it can only become to our political and social system a safe conductor of healthy popular sentiment when kept free from demoralizing influences . Controlled through fraud and usurpation by the designing , anarchy and despotism must inevitably follow . In the hands of the patriotic and worthy our Government will be preserved upon the principles of the Constitution inherited from our fathers . It follows , therefore , that in admitting to the ballot box a new class of voters not qualified for the exercise of the elective franchise we weaken our system of government instead of adding to its strength and durability . I yield to no one in attachment to that rule of general suffrage which distinguishes our policy as a nation . But there is a limit , wisely observed hitherto , which makes the ballot a privilege and a trust , and which requires of some classes a time suitable for probation and preparation . To give it indiscriminately to a new class , wholly unprepared by previous habits and opportunities to perform the trust which it demands , is to degrade it , and finally to destroy its power , for it may be safely assumed that no political truth is better established than that such indiscriminate and all embracing extension of popular suffrage must end at last in its destruction . I repeat the expression of my willingness to join in any plan within the scope of our constitutional authority which promises to better the condition of the Negroes in the South , by encouraging them in industry , enlightening their minds , improving their morals , and giving protection to all their just rights as freedmen . But the transfer of our political inheritance to them would , in my opinion , be an abandonment of a duty which we owe alike to the memory of our fathers and the rights of our children . The plan of putting the Southern States wholly and the General Government partially into the hands of Negroes is proposed at a time peculiarly unpropitious . The foundations of society have been broken up by civil war . Industry must be reorganized , justice reestablished , public credit maintained , and order brought out of confusion . To accomplish these ends would require all the wisdom and virtue of the great men who formed our institutions originally . I confidently believe that their descendants will be equal to the arduous task before them , but it is worse than madness to expect that Negroes will perform it for us . Certainly we ought not to ask their assistance till we despair of our own competency . The great difference between the two races in physical , mental , and moral characteristics will prevent an amalgamation or fusion of them together in one homogeneous mass . If the inferior obtains the ascendency over the other , it will govern with reference only to its own interests for it will recognize no common interest and create such a tyranny as this continent has never yet witnessed . Already the Negroes are influenced by promises of confiscation and plunder . They are taught to regard as an enemy every white man who has any respect for the rights of his own race . If this continues it must become worse and worse , until all order will be subverted , all industry cease , and the fertile fields of the South grow up into a wilderness . Of all the dangers which our nation has yet encountered , none are equal to those which must result from the success of the effort now making to Africanize the half of our country . I would not put considerations of money in competition with justice and right but the expenses incident to reconstruction under the system adopted by Congress aggravate what I regard as the intrinsic wrong of the measure itself . It has cost uncounted millions already , and if persisted in will add largely to the weight of taxation , already too oppressive to be borne without just complaint , and may finally reduce the Treasury of the nation to a condition of bankruptcy . We must not delude ourselves . It will require a strong standing army and probably more than 200 , 000 , 000 per annum to maintain the supremacy of Negro governments after they are established . The sum thus thrown away would , if properly used , form a sinking fund large enough to pay the whole national debt in less than fifteen years . It is vain to hope that Negroes will maintain their ascendency themselves . Without military power they are wholly incapable of holding in subjection the white people of the South . I submit to the judgment of Congress whether the public credit may not be injuriously affected by a system of measures like this . With our debt and the vast private interests which are complicated with it , we can not be too cautious of a policy which might by possibility impair the confidence of the world in our Government . That confidence can only be retained by carefully inculcating the principles of justice and honor on the popular mind and by the most scrupulous fidelity to all our engagements of every sort . Any serious breach of the organic law , persisted in for a considerable time , can not but create fears for the stability of our institutions . Habitual violation of prescribed rules , which we bind ourselves to observe , must demoralize the people . Our only standard of civil duty being set at naught , the sheet anchor of our political morality is lost , the public conscience swings from its moorings and yields to every impulse of passion and interest . If we repudiate the Constitution , we will not be expected to care much for mere pecuniary obligations . The violation of such a pledge as we made on the 22d day of July , 1861 , will assuredly diminish the market value of our other promises . Besides , if we acknowledge that the national debt was created , not to hold the States in the Union , as the taxpayers were led to suppose , but to expel them from it and hand them over to be governed by Negroes , the moral duty to pay it may seem much less clear . I say it may seem so , for I do not admit that this or any other argument in favor of repudiation can be entertained as sound but its influence on some classes of minds may well be apprehended . The financial honor of a great commercial nation , largely indebted and with a republican form of government administered by agents of the popular choice , is a thing of such delicate texture and the destruction of it would be followed by such unspeakable calamity that every true patriot must desire to avoid whatever might expose it to the slightest danger . The great interests of the country require immediate relief from these enactments . Business in the South is paralyzed by a sense of general insecurity , by the terror of confiscation , and the dread of Negro supremacy . The Southern trade , from which the North would have derived so great a profit under a government of law , still languishes , and can never be revived until it ceases to be fettered by the arbitrary power which makes all its operations unsafe . That rich country the richest in natural resources the world ever saw is worse than lost if it be not soon placed under the protection of a free constitution . Instead of being , as it ought to be , a source of wealth and power , it will become an intolerable burden upon the rest of the nation . Another reason for retracing our steps will doubtless be seen by Congress in the late manifestations of public opinion upon this subject . We live in a country where the popular will always enforces obedience to itself , sooner or later . It is vain to think of opposing it with anything short of legal authority backed by overwhelming force . It can not have escaped your attention that from the day on which Congress fairly and formally presented the proposition to govern the Southern States by military force , with a view to the ultimate establishment of Negro supremacy , every expression of the general sentiment has been more or less adverse to it . The affections of this generation can not be detached from the institutions of their ancestors . Their determination to preserve the inheritance of free government in their own hands and transmit it undivided and unimpaired to their own posterity is too strong to be successfully opposed . Every weaker passion will disappear before that love of liberty and law for which the American people are distinguished above all others in the world . How far the duty of the President to preserve , protect , and defend the Constitution requires him to go in opposing an unconstitutional act of Congress is a very serious and important question , on which I have deliberated much and felt extremely anxious to reach a proper conclusion . Where an act has been passed according to the forms of the Constitution by the supreme legislative authority , and is regularly enrolled among the public statutes of the country , Executive resistance to it , especially in times of high party excitement , would be likely to produce violent collision between the respective adherents of the two branches of the Government . This would be simply civil war , and civil war must be resorted to only as the last remedy for the worst of evils . Whatever might tend to provoke it should be most carefully avoided . A faithful and conscientious magistrate will concede very much to honest error , and something even to perverse malice , before he will endanger the public peace and he will not adopt forcible measures , or such as might lead to force , as long as those which are peaceable remain open to him or to his constituents . It is true that cases may occur in which the Executive would be compelled to stand on its rights , and maintain them regardless of all consequences . If Congress should pass an act which is not only in palpable conflict with the Constitution , but will certainly , if carried out , produce immediate and irreparable injury to the organic structure of the Government , and if there be neither judicial remedy for the wrongs it inflicts nor power in the people to protect themselves without the official aid of their elected defender if , for instance , the legislative department should pass an act even through all the forms of law to abolish a coordinate department of the Government in such a case the President must take the high responsibilities of his office and save the life of the nation at all hazards . The so called reconstruction acts , though as plainly unconstitutional as any that can be imagined , were not believed to be within the class last mentioned . The people were not wholly dis armed of the power of self defense . In all the Northern States they still held in their hands the sacred right of the ballot , and it was safe to believe that in due time they would come to the rescue of their own institutions . It gives me pleasure to add that the appeal to our common constituents was not taken in vain , and that my confidence in their wisdom and virtue seems not to have been misplaced . It is well and publicly known that enormous frauds have been perpetrated on the Treasury and that colossal fortunes have been made at the public expense . This species of corruption has increased , is increasing , and if not diminished will soon bring us into total ruin and disgrace . The public creditors and the taxpayers are alike interested in an honest administration of the finances , and neither class will long endure the large handed robberies of the recent past . For this discreditable state of things there are several causes . Some of the taxes are so laid as to present an irresistible temptation to evade payment . The great sums which officers may win by connivance at fraud create a pressure which is more than the virtue of many can withstand , and there can be no doubt that the open disregard of constitutional obligations avowed by some of the highest and most influential men in the country has greatly weakened the moral sense of those who serve in subordinate places . The expenses of the United States , including interest on the public debt , are more than six times as much as they were seven years ago . To collect and disburse this vast amount requires careful supervision as well as systematic vigilance . The system , never perfected , was much disorganized by the tenure of office bill , which has almost destroyed official accountability . The President may be thoroughly convinced that an officer is incapable , dishonest , or unfaithful to the Constitution , but under the law which I have named the utmost he can do is to complain to the Senate and ask the privilege of supplying his place with a better man . If the Senate be regarded as personally or politically hostile to the President , it is natural , and not altogether unreasonable , for the officer to expect that it will take his part as far as possible , restore him to his place , and give him a triumph over his Executive superior . The officer has other chances of impunity arising from accidental defects of evidence , the mode of investigating it , and the secrecy of the hearing . It is not wonderful that official malfeasance should become bold in proportion as the delinquents learn to think themselves safe . I am entirely persuaded that under such a rule the President can not perform the great duty assigned to him of seeing the laws faithfully executed , and that it disables him most especially from enforcing that rigid accountability which is necessary to the due execution of the revenue laws . The Constitution invests the President with authority to decide whether a removal should be made in any given case the act of Congress declares in substance that he shall only accuse such as he supposes to be unworthy of their trust . The Constitution makes him sole judge in the premises , but the statute takes away his jurisdiction , transfers it to the Senate , and leaves him nothing but the odious and sometimes impracticable duty of becoming a prosecutor . The prosecution is to be conducted before a tribunal whose members are not , like him , responsible to the whole people , but to separate constituent bodies , and who may hear his accusation with great disfavor . The Senate is absolutely without any known standard of decision applicable to such a case . Its judgment can not be anticipated , for it is not governed by any rule . The law does not define what shall be deemed good cause for removal . It is impossible even to conjecture what may or may not be so considered by the Senate . The nature of the subject forbids clear proof . If the charge be incapacity , what evidence will support it Fidelity to the Constitution may be understood or misunderstood in a thousand different ways , and by violent party men , in violent party times , unfaithfulness to the Constitution may even come to be considered meritorious . If the officer be accused of dishonesty , how shall it be made out Will it be inferred from acts unconnected with public duty , from private history , or from general reputation , or must the President await the commission of an actual misdemeanor in office Shall he in the meantime risk the character and interest of the nation in the hands of men to whom he can not give his confidence Must he forbear his complaint until the mischief is done and can not be prevented If his zeal in the public service should impel him to anticipate the overt act , must he move at the peril of being tried himself for the offense of slandering his subordinate In the present circumstances of the country someone must be held responsible for official delinquency of every kind . It is extremely difficult to say where that responsibility should be thrown if it be not left where it has been placed by the Constitution . But all just men will admit that the President ought to be entirely relieved from such responsibility if he can not meet it by reason of restrictions placed by law upon his action . The unrestricted power of removal from office is a very great one to be trusted even to a magistrate chosen by the general suffrage of the whole people and accountable directly to them for his acts . It is undoubtedly liable to abuse , and at some periods of our history perhaps has been abused . If it be thought desirable and constitutional that it should be so limited as to make the President merely a common informer against other public agents , he should at least be permitted to act in that capacity before some open tribunal , independent of party politics , ready to investigate the merits of every case , furnished with the means of taking evidence , and bound to decide according to established rules . This would guarantee the safety of the accuser when he acts in good faith , and at the same time secure the rights of the other party . I speak , of course , with all proper respect for the present Senate , but it does not seem to me that any legislative body can be so constituted as to insure its fitness for these functions . It is not the theory of this Government that public offices are the property of those who hold them . They are given merely as a trust for the public benefit , sometimes for a fixed period , sometimes during good behavior , but generally they are liable to be terminated at the pleasure of the appointing power , which represents the collective majesty and speaks the will of the people . The forced retention in office of a single dishonest person may work great injury to the public interests . The danger to the public service comes not from the power to remove , but from the power to appoint . Therefore it was that the framers of the Constitution left the power of removal unrestricted , while they gave the Senate a fight to reject all appointments which in its opinion were not fit to be made . A little reflection on this subject will probably satisfy all who have the good of the country at heart that our best course is to take the Constitution for our guide , walk in the path marked out by the founders of the Republic , and obey the rules made sacred by the observance of our great predecessors . The present condition of our finances and circulating medium is one to which your early consideration is invited . The proportion which the currency of any country should bear to the whole value of the annual produce circulated by its means is a question upon which political economists have not agreed . Nor can it be controlled by legislation , but must be left to the irrevocable laws which everywhere regulate commerce and trade . The circulating medium will ever irresistibly flow to those points where it is in greatest demand . The law of demand and supply is as unerring as that which regulates the tides of the ocean and , indeed , currency , like the tides , has its ebbs and flows throughout the commercial world . At the beginning of the rebellion the bank note circulation of the country amounted to not much more than 200 , 000 , 000 now the circulation of national bank notes and those known as legal tenders is nearly seven hundred millions . While it is urged by some that this amount should be increased , others contend that a decided reduction is absolutely essential to the best interests of the country . In view of these diverse opinions , it may be well to ascertain the real value of our paper issues when compared with a metallic or convertible currency . For this purpose let us inquire how much gold and silver could be purchased by the seven hundred millions of paper money now in circulation . Probably not more than half the amount of the latter , showing that when our paper currency is compared with gold and silver its commercial value is compressed into three hundred and fifty millions . This striking fact makes it the obvious duty of the Government , as early as may be consistent with the principles of sound political economy , to take such measures as will enable the holder of its notes and those of the national banks to convert them without loss into specie or its equivalent . A reduction of our paper circulating medium need not necessarily follow . This , however , would depend upon the law of demand and supply , though it should be borne in mind that by making legal tender and bank notes convertible into coin or its equivalent their present specie value in the hands of their holders would be enhanced 100 per cent . Legislation for the accomplishment of a result so desirable is demanded by the highest public considerations . The Constitution contemplates that the circulating medium of the country shall be uniform in quality and value . At the time of the formation of that instrument the country had just emerged from the War of the Revolution , and was suffering from the effects of a redundant and worthless paper currency . The sages of that period were anxious to protect their posterity from the evils that they themselves had experienced . Hence in providing a circulating medium they conferred upon Congress the power to coin money and regulate the value thereof , at the same time prohibiting the States from making anything but gold and silver a tender in payment of debts . The anomalous condition of our currency is in striking contrast with that which was originally designed . Our circulation now embraces , first , notes of the national banks , which are made receivable for all dues to the Government , excluding imposts , and by all its creditors , excepting in payment of interest upon its bonds and the securities themselves second , legal tender notes , issued by the United States , and which the law requires shall be received as well in payment of all debts between citizens as of all Government dues , excepting imposts and , third . gold and silver coin . By the operation of our present system of finance , however , the metallic currency , when collected , is reserved only for one class of Government creditors , who , holding its bonds , semiannually receive their interest in coin from the National Treasury . They are thus made to occupy an invidious position , which may be used to strengthen the arguments of those who would bring into disrepute the obligations of the nation . In the payment of all its debts the plighted faith of the Government should be inviolably maintained . But while it acts with fidelity toward the bondholder who loaned his money that the integrity of the Union might be preserved , it should at the same time observe good faith with the great masses of the people , who , having rescued the Union from the perils of rebellion , now bear the burdens of taxation , that the Government may be able to fulfill its engagements . There is no reason which will be accepted as satisfactory by the people why those who defend us on the land and protect us on the sea the pensioner upon the gratitude of the nation , bearing the scars and wounds received while in its service the public servants in the various Departments of the Government the farmer who supplies the soldiers of the Army and the sailors of the Navy the artisan who toils in the nation s workshops , or the mechanics and laborers who build its edifices and construct its forts and vessels of war , should , in payment of their just and hard earned dues , receive depreciated paper , while another class of their countrymen , no more deserving , are paid in coin of gold and silver . Equal and exact justice requires that all the creditors of the Government should be paid in a currency possessing a uniform value . This can only be accomplished by the restoration of the currency to the standard established by the Constitution and by this means we would remove a discrimination which may , if it has not already done so , create a prejudice that may become deep rooted and widespread and imperil the national credit . The feasibility of making our currency correspond with the constitutional standard may be seen by reference to a few facts derived from our commercial statistics . The production of precious metals in the United States from 1849 to 1857 , inclusive , amounted to 579 , 000 , 000 from 1858 to 1860 , inclusive , to 137 , 500 , 000 , and from 1861 to 1867 , inclusive , to 457 , 500 , 000 making the grand aggregate of products since 1849 1 , 174 , 000 , 000 . The amount of specie coined from 1849 to 1857 inclusive , was 439 , 000 , 000 from 1858 to 1860 , inclusive , 125 , 000 , 000 , and from 1861 to 1867 , inclusive , 310 , 000 , 000 making the total coinage since 1849 874 , 000 , 000 . From 1849 to 1857 , inclusive , the net exports of specie amounted to 271 , 000 , 000 from 1858 to 1860 , inclusive , to 148 , 000 , 000 , and from 1861 to 1867 , inclusive , 322 , 000 , 000 making the aggregate of net exports since 1849 741 , 000 , 000 . These figures show an excess of product over net exports of 433 , 000 , 000 . There are in the Treasury 111 , 000 , 000 in coin , something more than 40 , 000 , 000 in circulation on the Pacific Coast , and a few millions in the national and other banks in all about 160 , 000 , 000 . This , however , taking into account the specie in the country prior to 1849 leaves more than 300 , 000 , 000 which have not been accounted for by exportation , and therefore may yet remain in the country . These are important facts and show how completely the inferior currency will supersede the better , forcing it from circulation among the masses and causing it to be exported as a mere article of trade , to add to the money capital of foreign lands . They show the necessity of retiring our paper money , that the return of gold and silver to the avenues of trade may be invited and a demand created which will cause the retention at home of at least so much of the productions of our rich and inexhaustible gold bearing fields as may be sufficient for purposes of circulation . It is unreasonable to expect a return to a sound currency so long as the Government by continuing to issue irredeemable notes fills the channels of circulation with depreciated paper . Notwithstanding a coinage by our mints , since 1849 , of 874 , 000 , 000 , the people are now strangers to the currency which was designed for their use and benefit , and specimens of the precious metals bearing the national device are seldom seen , except when produced to gratify the interest excited by their novelty . If depreciated paper is to be continued as the permanent currency of the country , and all our coin is to become a mere article of traffic and speculation , to the enhancement in price of all that is indispensable to the comfort of the people , it would be wise economy to abolish our mints thus saving the nation the care and expense incident to such establishments , and let all our precious metals be exported in bullion . The time has come , however , when the Government and national banks should be required to take the most efficient steps and make all necessary arrangements for a resumption of specie payments at the earliest practicable period . Specie payments having been once resumed by the Government and banks , all notes or bills of paper issued by either of a less denomination than 20 should by law be excluded from circulation , so that the people may have the benefit and convenience of a gold and silver currency which in all their business transactions will be uniform in value at home and abroad . Every man of property or industry , every man who desires to preserve what he honestly possesses or to obtain what he can honestly earn , has a direct interest in maintaining a safe circulating medium such a medium as shall be real and substantial , not liable to vibrate with opinions , not subject to be blown up or blown down by the breath of speculation , but to be made stable and secure . A disordered currency is one of the greatest political evils . It undermines the virtues necessary for the support of the social system and encourages propensities destructive of its happiness it wars against industry , frugality , and economy , and it fosters the evil spirits of extravagance and speculation . It has been asserted by one of our profound and most gifted statesmen that Of all the contrivances for cheating the laboring classes of mankind , none has been more effectual than that which deludes them with paper money . This is the most effectual of inventions to fertilize the rich man s fields by the sweat of the poor man s brow . Ordinary tyranny , oppression , excessive taxation these bear lightly on the happiness of the mass of the community compared with a fraudulent currency and the robberies committed by depreciated paper . Our own history has recorded for our instruction enough , and more than enough , of the demoralizing tendency , the injustice , and the intolerable oppression on the virtuous and well disposed of a degraded paper currency authorized by law or in any way countenanced by government . It is one of the most successful devices , in times of peace or war , expansions or revulsions , to accomplish the transfer of all the precious metals from the great mass of the people into the hands of the few , where they are hoarded in secret places or deposited in strong boxes under bolts and bars , while the people are left to endure all the inconvenience , sacrifice , and demoralization resulting from the use of a depreciated and worthless paper money . The condition of our finances and the operations of our revenue system are set forth and fully explained in the able and instructive report of the Secretary of the Treasury . On the 30th of June , 1866 , the public debt amounted to 2 , 783 , 425 , 879 on the 30th of June last it was 2 , 692 , 199 , 215 , showing a reduction during the fiscal year of 91 , 226 , 664 . During the fiscal year ending June 30 , 1867 , the receipts were 490 , 634 , 010 and the expenditures 346 , 729 , 129 , leaving an available surplus of 143 , 904 , 880 . It is estimated that the receipts for the fiscal year ending June 30 , 1868 , will be 417 , 161 , 928 and that the expenditures will reach the sum of 393 , 269 , 226 , leaving in the Treasury a surplus of 23 , 892 , 702 . For the fiscal year ending June 30 , 1869 , it is estimated that the receipts will amount to 381 , 000 , 000 and that the expenditures will be 372 , 000 , 000 , showing an excess of 9 , 000 , 000 in favor of the Government . The attention of Congress is earnestly invited to the necessity of a thorough revision of our revenue system . Our internal revenue laws and impost system should be so adjusted as to bear most heavily on articles of luxury , leaving the necessaries of life as free from taxation as may be consistent with the real wants of the Government , economically administered . Taxation would not then fall unduly on the man of moderate means and while none would be entirely exempt from assessment , all , in proportion to their pecuniary abilities , would contribute toward the support of the State . A modification of the internal revenue system , by a large reduction in the number of articles now subject to tax , would be followed by results equally advantageous to the citizen and the Government . It would render the execution of the law less expensive and more certain , remove obstructions to industry , lessen the temptations to evade the law , diminish the violations and frauds perpetrated upon its provisions , make its operations less inquisitorial , and greatly reduce in numbers the army of taxgatherers created by the system , who take from the mouth of honest labor the bread it has earned . Retrenchment , reform , and economy should be carried into every branch of the public service , that the expenditures of the Government may be reduced and the people relieved from oppressive taxation a sound currency should be restored , and the public faith in regard to the national debt sacredly observed . The accomplishment of these important results , together with the restoration of the Union of the States upon the principles of the Constitution , would inspire confidence at home and abroad in the stability of our institutions and bring to the nation prosperity , peace , and good will . The report of the Secretary of War ad interim exhibits the operations of the Army and of the several bureaus of the War Department . The aggregate strength of our military force on the 30th of September last was 56 , 315 . The total estimate for military appropriations is 77 , 124 , 707 , including a deficiency in last year s appropriation of 13 , 600 , 000 . The payments at the Treasury on account of the service of the War Department from January 1 to October 29 , 1867 a period of ten months amounted to 109 , 807 , 000 . The expenses of the military establishment , as well as the numbers of the Army , are now three times as great as they have ever been in time of peace , while the discretionary , power is vested in the Executive to add millions to this expenditure by an increase of the Army to the maximum strength allowed by the law . The comprehensive report of the Secretary of the Interior furnishes interesting information in reference to the important branches of the public service connected with his Department . The menacing attitude of some of the warlike bands of Indians inhabiting the district of country between the Arkansas and Platte rivers and portions of Dakota Territory required the presence of a large military force in that region . Instigated by real or imaginary grievances , the Indians occasionally committed acts of barbarous violence upon emigrants and our frontier settlements but a general Indian war has been providentially averted . The commissioners under the act of 20th July , 1867 , were invested with full power to adjust existing difficulties , negotiate treaties with the disaffected bands , and select for them reservations remote from the traveled routes between the Mississippi and the Pacific . They entered without delay upon the execution of their trust , but have not yet made any official report of their proceedings . It is of vital importance that our distant Territories should be exempt from Indian outbreaks , and that the construction of the Pacific Railroad , an object of national importance , should not be interrupted by hostile tribes . These objects , as well as the material interests and the moral and intellectual improvement of the Indians , can be most effectually secured by concentrating them upon portions of country set apart for their exclusive use and located at points remote from our highways and encroaching white settlements . Since the commencement of the second session of the Thirty ninth Congress 510 miles of road have been constructed on the main line and branches of the Pacific Railway . The line from Omaha is rapidly approaching the eastern base of the Rocky Mountains , while the terminus of the last section of constructed road in California , accepted by the Government on the 24th day of October last , was but 11 miles distant from the summit of the Sierra Nevada . The remarkable energy evinced by the companies offers the strongest assurance that the completion of the road from Sacramento to Omaha will not be long deferred . During the last fiscal year 7 , 041 , 114 acres of public land were disposed of , and the cash receipts from sales and fees exceeded by one half million dollars the sum realized from those sources during the preceding year . The amount paid to pensioners , including expenses of disbursements , was 18 , 619 , 956 , and 36 , 482 names were added to the rolls . The entire number of pensioners on the 30th of June last was 155 , 474 . Eleven thousand six hundred and fifty five patents and designs were issued during the year ending September 30 , 1867 , and at that date the balance in the Treasury to the credit of the patent fund was 286 , 607 . The report of the Secretary of the Navy states that we have seven squadrons actively and judiciously employed , under efficient and able commanders , in protecting the persons and property of American citizens , maintaining the dignity and power of the Government , and promoting the commerce and business interests of our countrymen in every part of the world . Of the 238 vessels composing the present Navy of the United States , 56 , carrying 507 guns , are in squadron service . During the year the number of vessels in commission has been reduced 12 , and there are 13 less on squadron duty than there were at the date of the last report . A large number of vessels were commenced and in the course of construction when the war terminated , and although Congress had made the necessary appropriations for their completion , the Department has either suspended work upon them or limited the slow completion of the steam vessels , so as to meet the contracts for machinery made with private establishments . The total expenditures of the Navy Department for the fiscal year ending June 30 , 1867 , were 31 , 034 , 011 . No appropriations have been made . or required since the close of the war for the construction and repair of vessels , for steam machinery , ordnance , provisions and clothing , fuel , hemp , etc . , the balances under these several heads having been more than sufficient for current expenditures . It should also be stated to the credit of the Department that , besides asking no appropriations for the above objects for the last two years , the Secretary of the Navy , on the 30th of September last , in accordance with the act of May 1 , 1820 , requested the Secretary of the Treasury to carry to the surplus fund the sum of 65 , 000 . 000 , being the amount received from the sales of vessels and other war property and the remnants of former appropriations . The report of the Postmaster General shows the business of the Post Office Department and the condition of the postal service in a very favorable light , and the attention of Congress is called to its practical recommendations . The receipts of the Department for the year ending June 30 , 1867 , including all special appropriations for sea and land service and for free mail matter , were 19 , 978 , 693 . The expenditures for all purposes were 19 , 235 , 483 , leaving an unexpended balance in favor of the Department of 743 , 210 , which can be applied toward the expenses of the Department for the current year . The increase of postal revenue , independent of specific appropriations , for the year 1867 over that of 1866 was 850 , 040 . The increase of revenue from the sale of stamps and stamped envelopes was 783 , 404 . The increase of expenditures for 1867 over those of the previous year was owing chiefly to the extension of the land and ocean mail service . During the past year new postal conventions have been ratified and exchanged with the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland , Belgium , the Netherlands , Switzerland , the North German Union , Italy , and the colonial government at Hong Kong , reducing very largely the rates of ocean and land postages to and from and within those countries . The report of the Acting Commissioner of Agriculture concisely presents the condition , wants , and progress of an interest eminently worthy the fostering care of Congress , and exhibits a large measure of useful results achieved during the year to which it refers . The reestablishment of peace at home and the resumption of extended trade , travel , and commerce abroad have served to increase the number and variety of questions in the Department for Foreign Affairs . None of these questions , however , have seriously disturbed our relations with other states . The Republic of Mexico , having been relieved from foreign intervention , is earnestly engaged in efforts to reestablish her constitutional system of government . A good understanding continues to exist between our Government and the Republics of Hayti and San Domingo , and our cordial relations with the Central and South American States remain unchanged . The tender , made in conformity with a resolution of Congress , of the good offices of the Government with a view to an amicable adjustment of peace between Brazil and her allies on one side and Paraguay on the other , and between Chile and her allies on the one side and Spain on the other , though kindly received , has in neither case been fully accepted by the belligerents . The war in the valley of the Parana is still vigorously maintained . On the other hand , actual hostilities between the Pacific States and Spain have been more than a year suspended . I shall , on any proper occasion that may occur , renew the conciliatory recommendations which have been already made . Brazil , with enlightened sagacity and comprehensive statesmanship , has opened the great channels of the Amazon and its tributaries to universal commerce . One thing more seems needful to assure a rapid and cheering progress in South America . I refer to those peaceful habits without which states and nations can not in this age well expect material prosperity or social advancement . The Exposition of Universal Industry at Paris has passed , and seems to have fully realized the high expectations of the French Government . If due allowance be made for the recent political derangement of industry here , the part which the United States has borne in this exhibition of invention and art may be regarded with very high satisfaction . During the exposition a conference was held of delegates from several nations , the United States being one , in which the inconveniences of commerce and social intercourse resulting from the diverse standards of money value were very fully discussed , and plans were developed for establishing by universal consent a common principle for the coinage of gold . These conferences are expected to be renewed , with the attendance of many foreign states not hitherto represented . A report of these interesting proceedings will be submitted to Congress , which will , no doubt , justly appreciate the great object and be ready to adopt any measure which may tend to facilitate its ultimate accomplishment . On the 25th of February , 1862 , Congress declared by law that Treasury notes , without interest , authorized by that act should be legal tender in payment of all debts , public and private , within the United States . An annual remittance of 30 , 000 , less stipulated expenses , accrues to claimants under the convention made with Spain in 1834 . These remittances , since the passage of that act , have been paid in such notes . The claimants insist that the Government ought to require payment in coin . The subject may be deemed worthy of your attention . No arrangement has yet been reached for the settlement of our claims for British depredations upon the commerce of the United States . I have felt it my duty to decline the proposition of arbitration made by Her Majesty s Government , because it has hitherto been accompanied by reservations and limitations incompatible with the rights , interest , and honor of our country . It is not to be apprehended that Great Britain will persist in her refusal to satisfy these just and reasonable claims , which involve the sacred principle of nonintervention a principle henceforth not more important to the United States than to all other commercial nations . The West India islands were settled and colonized by European States simultaneously with the settlement and colonization of the American continent . Most of the colonies planted here became independent nations in the close of the last and the beginning of the present century . Our own country embraces communities which at one period were colonies of Great Britain , France , Spain , Holland , Sweden , and Russia . The people in the West Indies , with the exception of those of the island of Hayti , have neither attained nor aspired to independence , nor have they become prepared for self defense . Although possessing considerable commercial value , they have been held by the several European States which colonized or at some time conquered them , chiefly for purposes of military and naval strategy in carrying out European policy and designs in regard to this continent . In our Revolutionary War ports and harbors in the West India islands were used by our enemy , to the great injury and embarrassment of the United States . We had the same experience in our second war with Great Britain . The same European policy for a long time excluded us even from trade with the West Indies , while we were at peace with all nations . In our recent civil war the rebels and their piratical and blockade breaking allies found facilities in the same ports for the work , which they too successfully accomplished , of injuring and devastating the commerce which we are now engaged in rebuilding . We labored especially under this disadvantage , that European steam vessels employed by our enemies found friendly shelter , protection , and supplies in West Indian ports , while our naval operations were necessarily carried on from our own distant shores . There was then a universal feeling of the want of an advanced naval outpost between the Atlantic coast and Europe . The duty of obtaining such an outpost peacefully and lawfully , while neither doing nor menacing injury to other states , earnestly engaged the attention of the executive department before the close of the war , and it has not been lost sight of since that time . A not entirely dissimilar naval want revealed itself during the same period on the Pacific coast . The required foothold there was fortunately secured by our late treaty with the Emperor of Russia , and it now seems imperative that the more obvious necessities of the Atlantic coast should not be less carefully provided for . A good and convenient port and harbor , capable of easy defense , will supply that want . With the possession of such a station by the United States , neither we nor any other American nation need longer apprehend injury or offense from any transatlantic enemy . I agree with our early statesmen that the West Indies naturally gravitate to , and may be expected ultimately to be absorbed by , the continental States , including our own . I agree with them also that it is wise to leave the question of such absorption to this process of natural political gravitation . The islands of Thomas and John , which constitute a part of the group called the Virgin Islands , seemed to offer us advantages immediately desirable , while their acquisition could be secured in harmony with the principles to which I have alluded . A treaty has therefore been concluded with the King of Denmark for the cession of those islands , and will be submitted to the Senate for consideration . It will hardly be necessary to call the attention of Congress to the subject of providing for the payment to Russia of the sum stipulated in the treaty for the cession of Alaska . Possession having been formally delivered to our commissioner , the territory remains for the present in care of a military force , awaiting such civil organization as shall be directed by Congress . The annexation of many small German States to Prussia and the reorganization of that country under a new and liberal constitution have induced me to renew the effort to obtain a just and prompt settlement of the long vexed question concerning the claims of foreign states for military service from their subjects naturalized in the United States . In connection with this subject the attention of Congress is respectfully called to a singular and embarrassing conflict of laws . The executive department of this Government has hitherto uniformly held , as it now holds , that naturalization in conformity with the Constitution and laws of the United States absolves the recipient from his native allegiance . The courts of Great Britain hold that allegiance to the British Crown is indefensible , and is not absolved by our laws of naturalization . British judges cite courts and law authorities of the United States in support of that theory against the position held by the executive authority of the United States . This conflict perplexes the public mind concerning the rights of naturalized citizens and impairs the national authority abroad . I called attention to this subject in my last annual message , and now again respectfully appeal to Congress to declare the national will unmistakably upon this important question . The abuse of our laws by the clandestine prosecution of the African slave trade from American ports or by American citizens has altogether ceased , and under existing circumstances no apprehensions of its renewal in this part of the world are entertained . Under these circumstances it becomes a question whether we shall not propose to Her Majesty s Government a suspension or discontinuance of the stipulations for maintaining a naval force for the suppression of that trade .<speech_sep>To the Senate and House of Representatives Experience has fully demonstrated the wisdom of the framers of the Federal Constitution . Under all circumstances the result of their labors was as near an approximation to perfection as was compatible with the fallibility of man . Such being the estimation in which the Constitution is and has ever been held by our countrymen , it is not surprising that any proposition for its alteration or amendment should be received with reluctance and distrust . While this sentiment deserves commendation and encouragement as a useful preventive of unnecessary attempt to change its provisions , it must be conceded that time has developed imperfections and omissions in the Constitution , the reformation of which has been demanded by the best interests of the country . Some of these have been remedied in the manner provided in the Constitution itself . There are others which , although heretofore brought to the attention of the people , have never been so presented as to enable the popular judgment to determine whether they should be corrected by means of additional amendments . My object in this communication is to suggest certain defects in the Constitution which seem to me to require correction , and to recommend that the judgment of the people be taken on the amendments proposed . The first of the defects to which I desire to direct attention is in that clause of the Constitution which provides for the election of President and Vice President through the intervention of electors , and not by an immediate vote of the people . The importance of so amending this clause as to secure to the people the election of President and Vice President by their direct votes was urged with great earnestness and ability by President Jackson in his first annual message , and the recommendation was repeated in five of his subsequent communications to Congress , extending through the eight years of his Administration . In his message of 1829 he said To the people belongs the fight of electing their Chief Magistrate it was never designed that their choice should in any case be defeated , either by the intervention of electoral colleges or by the agency confided , under certain contingencies , to the House of Representatives . He then proceeded to state the objections to an election of President by the House of Representatives , the most important of which was that the choice of a clear majority of the people might be easily defeated . He then closed the argument with the following communication I would therefore recommend such an amendment of the Constitution as may remove all intermediate agency in the election of the President and Vice President . The mode may be so regulated as to preserve to each State its present relative weight in the election , and a failure in the first attempt may be provided for by confining the second to a choice between the two highest candidates . In connection with such an amendment it would seem advisable to limit the service of the Chief Magistrate to a single term of either four or six years . If , however , it should not be adopted , it is worthy of consideration whether a provision disqualifying for office the Representatives in Congress on whom such an election may have devolved would not be proper . Although this recommendation was repeated with undiminished earnestness in several of his succeeding messages , yet the proposed amendment was never adopted and submitted to the people by Congress . The danger of a defeat of the people s choice in an election by the House of Representatives remains unprovided for in the Constitution , and would be greatly increased if the House of Representatives should assume the power arbitrarily to reject the votes of a State which might not be cast in conformity with the wishes of the majority in that body . But if President Jackson failed to secure the amendment to the Constitution which he urged so persistently , his arguments contributed largely to the formation of party organizations , which have effectually avoided the contingency of an election by the House of Representatives . These organizations , first by a resort to the caucus system of nominating candidates , and afterwards to State and national conventions , have been successful in so limiting the number of candidates as to escape the danger of an election by the House of Representatives . It is clear , however , that in thus limiting the number of candidates the true object and spirit of the Constitution have been evaded and defeated . It is an essential feature in our republican system of government that every citizen possessing the constitutional qualifications has a right to become a candidate for the office of President and Vice President , and that every qualified elector has a right to cast his vote for any citizen whom he may regard as worthy of these offices . But under the party organizations which have prevailed for years these asserted rights of the people have been as effectually cut off and destroyed as if the Constitution itself had inhibited their exercise . The danger of a defeat of the popular choice in an election by the House of Representatives is no greater than in an election made nominally by the people themselves , when by the laws of party organizations and by the constitutional provisions requiring the people to vote for electors instead of for the President or Vice President it is made impracticable for any citizen to be a candidate except through the process of a party nomination , and for any voter to cast his suffrage for any other person than one thus brought forward through the manipulations of a nominating convention . It is thus apparent that by means of party organizations that provision of the Constitution which requires the election of President and Vice President to be made through the electoral colleges has been made instrumental and potential in defeating the great object of conferring the choice of these officers upon the people . It may be conceded that party organizations are inseparable from republican government , and that when formed and managed in subordination to the Constitution they may be valuable safeguards of popular liberty but when they are perverted to purposes of bad ambition they are liable to become the dangerous instruments of overthrowing the Constitution itself . Strongly impressed with the truth of these views , I feel called upon by an imperative sense of duty to revive substantially the recommendation so often and so earnestly made by President Jackson , and to urge that the amendment to the Constitution herewith presented , or some similar proposition , may be submitted to the people for their ratification or rejection . Recent events have shown the necessity of an amendment to the Constitution distinctly defining the persons who shall discharge the duties of President of the United States in the event of a vacancy in that office by the death , resignation , or removal of both the President and Vice President . It is clear that this should be fixed by the Constitution , and not be left to repealable enactments of doubtful constitutionality . It occurs to me that in the event of a vacancy in the office of President by the death , resignation , disability , or removal of both the President and Vice President the duties of the office should devolve upon an officer of the executive department of the Government , rather than one connected with the legislative or judicial departments . The objections to designating either the President pro tempore of the Senate or the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court , especially in the event of a vacancy produced by removal , are so obvious and so unanswerable that they need not be stated in detail . It is enough to state that they are both interested in producing a vacancy , and , according to the provisions of the Constitution , are members of the tribunal by whose decree a vacancy may be produced . Under such circumstances the impropriety of designating either of these officers to succeed the President so removed is palpable . The framers of the Constitution , when they referred to Congress the settlement of the succession to the office of President in the event of a vacancy in the offices of both President and Vice President , did not , in my opinion , contemplate the designation of any other than an officer of the executive department , on whom , in such a contingency , the powers and duties of the President should devolve . Until recently the contingency has been remote , and serious attention has not been called to the manifest incongruity between the provisions of the Constitution on this subject and the act of Congress of 1792 . Having , however , been brought almost face to face with this important question , it seems an eminently proper time for us to make the legislation conform to the language , intent , and theory of the Constitution , and thus place the executive department beyond the reach of usurpation , and remove from the legislative and judicial departments every temptation to combine for the absorption of all the powers of government . It has occurred to me that in the event of such a vacancy the duties of President would devolve most appropriately upon some one of the heads of the several Executive Departments , and under this conviction I present for your consideration an amendment to the Constitution on this subject , with the recommendation that it be submitted to the people for their action . Experience seems to have established the necessity of an amendment of that clause of the Constitution which provides for the election of Senators to Congress by the legislatures of the several States . It would be more consistent with the genius of our form of government if the Senators were chosen directly by the people of the several States . The objections to the election of Senators by the legislatures are so palpable that I deem it unnecessary to do more than submit the proposition for such an amendment , with the recommendation that it be opened to the people for their judgment . It is strongly impressed on my mind that the tenure of office by the judiciary of the United States during good behavior for life is incompatible with the spirit of republican government , and in this opinion I am fully sustained by the evidence of popular judgment upon this subject in the different States of the Union . I therefore deem it my duty to recommend an amendment to the Constitution by which the terms of the judicial officers would be limited to a period of years , and I herewith present it in the hope that Congress will submit it to the people for their decision . The foregoing views have long been entertained by me . In 1845 , in the House of Representatives , and afterwards , in 1860 , in the Senate of the United States , I submitted substantially the same propositions as those to which the attention of Congress is herein invited . Time , observation , and experience have confirmed these convictions and , as a matter of public duty and a deep sense of my constitutional obligation to recommend to the consideration of Congress such measures as I deem necessary and expedient , I submit the accompanying propositions , and urge their adoption and submission to the judgment of the people . ANDREW JOHNSON . Joint Resolution proposing amendments to the Constitution of the United States Whereas the fifth article of the Constitution of the United States provides for amendments thereto in the manner following , viz The Congress , whenever two thirds of both Houses shall deem it necessary , shall propose amendments to this Constitution , or , on the application of the legislatures of two thirds of the several States , shall call a convention for proposing amendments , which in either case shall be valid to all intents and purposes as part of this Constitution when ratified by the legislatures of three fourths of the several States or by conventions in three fourths thereof , as the one or the other mode of ratification may be proposed by the Congress Provided , That no amendment which may be made prior to the year 1808 shall in any manner affect the first and fourth clauses in the ninth section of the first article , and that no State , without its consent , shall be deprived of its equal suffrage in the Senate Therefore , Be it resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled two thirds of both Houses concurring , That the following amendments to the Constitution of the United States be proposed to the legislatures of the several States , which , when ratified by the legislatures of three fourths of the States , shall be valid to all intents and purposes as part of the Constitution That hereafter the President and Vice President of the United States shall be chosen for the term of six years , by the people of the respective States , in the manner following Each State shall be divided by the legislature thereof in districts , equal in number to the whole number of Senators and Representatives to which such State may be entitled in the Congress of the United States the said districts to be composed of contiguous territory , and to contain , as nearly as may be , an equal number of persons entitled to be represented under the Constitution , and to be laid off for the first time immediately after the ratification of this amendment that on the first Thursday in August in the year 18 , and on the same day every , sixth year thereafter , the citizens of each State who possess the qualifications requisite for electors of the most numerous branch of the State legislatures shall meet within their respective districts and vote for a President and Vice President of the United States and the person receiving the greatest number of votes for President and the one receiving the greatest number of votes for Vice President in each district shall be holden to have received one vote , which fact shall be immediately certified by the governor of the State to each of the Senators in Congress from such State and to the President of the Senate and the Speaker of the House of Representatives . The Congress of the United States shall be in session on the second Monday in October in the year 18 , and on the same day in every sixth year thereafter and the President of the Senate , in the presence of the Senate and House of Representatives , shall open all the certificates , and the votes shall then be counted . The person hating the greatest number of votes for President shall be President , if such number be equal to a majority of the whole number of votes given but it no person have such majority , then a second election shall be held on the first Thursday in the month of December then next ensuing between the persons having the two highest numbers for the office of President , which second election shall be conducted , the result certified , and the votes counted in the same manner as in the first , and the person having the greatest number of votes for President shall be President . But if two or more persons shall have received the greatest and an equal number of votes at the second election , then the person who shall have received the greatest number of votes in the greatest number of States shall be President . The person having the greatest number of votes for Vice President at the first election shall be Vice President , if such number be equal to a majority of the whole number of votes given and if no person have such majority , then a second election shall take place between the persons having the two highest numbers on the same day that the second election is held for President , and the person having the highest number of the votes for Vice President shall be Vice President . But if there should happen to be an equality of votes between the persons so voted for at the second election , then the person having the greatest number of votes in the greatest number of States shall be Vice President . But when a second election shall be necessary in the case of Vice President and not necessary in the case of President , then the Senate shall choose a Vice President from the persons having the two highest numbers in the first election , as now prescribed in the Constitution Provided , That after the ratification of this amendment to the Constitution the President and Vice President shall hold their offices , respectively , for the term of six years , and that no President or Vice President shall be eligible for reelection to a second term . SE2 . And be it further resolved , That Article Isection 1 , paragraph 6 , of the Constitution of the United States shall be amended so as to read as follows In case of the removal of the President from office , or of his death , resignation , or inability to discharge the powers and duties of said office , the same shall devolve on the Vice President and in the case of the removal , death , resignation , or inability both of the President and Vice President , the powers and duties of said office shall devolve on the Secretary of State for the time being and after this officer , in case of vacancy in that or other Department and in the order in which they are named , on the Secretary of the Treasury , on the Secretary of War , on the Secretary of the Navy on the Secretary of the Interior , on the Postmaster General , and on the Attorney General and such officer , on whom the powers and duties of President shall devolve in accordance with the foregoing provisions shall then act as President until the disability shall be removed or a President shall be elected , as is or may be provided for by law . SE3 . And be it further resolved , That Article section 3 , be amended by striking out the word legislature , and inserting in lieu thereof the following words viz Persons qualified to vote for members of the most numerous branch of the legislature , so as to make the third section of said article , when ratified by three fourths of the States , read as follows , to wit The Senate of the United States shall be composed of two Senators from each State , chosen by the persons qualified to vote for the members of the most numerous branch of the legislature thereof , for six years , and each Senator shall have one vote . SE4 . And be it further resolved , That Article IIsection be amended striking out the words good behavior , and inserting the following words . viz the term of twelve years . And further , that said article and section be amended by adding the following thereto , viz And it shall be the duty of the President of the United States , within twelve months after the ratification of this amendment by three fourths of all the States , as provided by the Constitution of the United States , to divide the whole number of judges , as near as may be practicable into three classes . The seats of the judges of the first class shall be vacated at the expiration of the fourth year from such classification , of the second class at the expiration of the eighth year , and of the third class at the expiration of the twelfth year , so that one third may be chosen every fourth year thereafter . The article as amended will read as follows ARTICLE III . SEThe judicial power of the United States shall be vested in one Supreme Court and such inferior courts as the Congress from time to time may ordain and establish . The judges , both of the Supreme and inferior courts , shall hold their offices during the term of twelve years , and shall at stated times receive for their services a compensation which shall not be diminished during their continuance in office and it shall be the duty of the President of the United States , within twelve months after the ratification of this amendment by three fourths of all the States , as provided by the Constitution of the United States , to divide the whole number of judges , as near as may be practicable , into three classes . The seats of the judges of the first class shall be vacated at the expiration of the fourth year from such classification of the second class , at the expiration of the eighth year and of the third class , at the expiration of the twelfth year , so that one third may be chosen every fourth year thereafter .<speech_sep>WAR DEPARTMENT , ADJUTANT GENERAL S OFFICE Whereas several commanders of military districts created by the acts of Congress known as the reconstruction acts have expressed doubts as to the proper construction thereof and in respect to some of their powers and duties under said acts , and have applied to the Executive for information in relation thereto and Whereas the said acts of Congress have been referred to the Attorney General for his opinion thereon , and the said acts and the opinion of the Attorney General have been fully and carefully considered by the President in conference with the heads of the respective Departments The President accepts the following as a practical interpretation of the aforesaid acts of Congress on the points therein presented , and directs the same to be transmitted to the respective military commanders for their information , in order that there may be uniformity in the execution of said acts 1 . The oath prescribed in the supplemental act defines all the qualifications required , and every person who can take that oath is entitled to have his name entered upon the list of voters . 2 . The board of registration have no authority to administer any other oath to the person applying for registration than this prescribed oath , nor to administer an oath to any other person touching the qualifications of the applicant or the falsity of the oath so taken by him . The act , to guard against falsity in the oath , provides that if false the person taking it shall be tried and punished for perjury . No provision is made for challenging the qualifications of the applicant or entering upon any trial or investigation of his qualifications , either by witnesses or any other form of proof . 3 . As to citizenship and residence The applicant for registration must be a citizen of the State and of the United States , and must be a resident of a county or parish included in the election district . He may be registered if he has been such citizen for a period less than twelve months at the time he applies for registration , but he can not vote at any election unless his citizenship has then extended to the full term of one year . As to such a person , the exact length of his citizenship should be noted opposite his name on the list , so that it may appear on the day of election , upon reference to the list , whether the full term has then been accomplished . 4 . An unnaturalized person can not take this oath , but an alien who has been naturalized can take it , and no other proof of naturalization can be required from him . 5 . No one who is not 21 years of age at the time of registration can take the oath , for he must swear that he has then attained that age . 6 . No one who has been disfranchised for participation in any rebellion against the United States or for felony committed against the laws of any State or of the United States can take this oath . The actual participation in a rebellion or the actual commission of a felony does not amount to disfranchisement . The sort of disfranchisement here meant is that which is declared by law passed by competent authority , or which has been fixed upon the criminal by the sentence of the court which tried him for the crime . No law of the United States has declared the penalty of disfranchisement for participation in rebellion alone nor is it known that any such law exists in either of these ten States , except , perhaps , Virginia , as to which State special instructions will be given . 7 . As to disfranchisement arising from having held office followed by participation in rebellion This is the most important part of the oath , and requires strict attention to arrive at its meaning . The applicant must swear or affirm as follows That I have never been a member of any State legislature , nor held any executive or judicial office in any State , and afterwards engaged in an insurrection or rebellion against the United States or given aid or comfort to the enemies thereof that I have never taken an oath as a member of Congress of the United States , or as an officer of the United States , or as a member of any State legislature , or as an executive or Judicial officer of any State , to support the Constitution of the United States , and afterwards engaged in insurrection or rebellion against the United States or given aid or comfort to the enemies thereof . Two elements must concur in order to disqualify a person under these clauses First , the office and official oath to support the Constitution of the United States second , engaging afterwards in rebellion . Both must exist to work disqualification , and must happen in the order of time mentioned . A person who has held an office and taken the oath to support the Federal Constitution and has not afterwards engaged in rebellion is not disqualified . So , too , a person who has engaged in rebellion , but has not theretofore held an office and taken that oath , is not disqualified . 8 . Officers of the United States As to these the language is without limitation . The person who has at any time prior to the rebellion held an office , civil or military , under the United States , and has taken an official oath to support the Constitution of the United States , is subject to disqualification . 9 . Militia officers of any State prior to the rebellion are not subject to disqualification . 10 . Municipal officers that is to say , officers of incorporated cities , towns , and villages , such as mayors , aldermen , town council , police , and other city or town officers are not subject to disqualification . 11 . Persons who have prior to the rebellion been members of the Congress of the United States or members of a State legislature are subject to disqualification , but those who have been members of conventions framing or amending the Constitution of a State prior to the rebellion are not subject to disqualification . 12 . All the executive or judicial officers of any State who took an oath to support the Constitution of the United States are subject to disqualification , including county officers . They are subject to disqualification if they were required to take as a part of their official oath the oath to support the Constitution of the United States . 13 . Persons who exercised mere employment under State authority are not disqualified such as commissioners to lay out roads , commissioners of public works , visitors of State institutions , directors of State institutions , examiners of banks , notaries public , and commissioners to take acknowledgments of deeds . ENGAGING IN REBELLION . Having specified what offices held by anyone prior to the rebellion come within the meaning of the law , it is necessary next to set forth what subsequent conduct fixes upon such person the offense of engaging in rebellion . Two things must exist as to any person to disqualify him from voting First , the office held prior to the rebellion , and , afterwards , participation in the rebellion . 14 . An act to fix upon a person the offense of engaging in the rebellion under this law must be an overt and voluntary act , done with the intent of aiding or furthering the common unlawful purpose . A person forced into the rebel service by conscription or under a paramount authority which he could not safely disobey , and who would not have entered such service if left to the free exercise of his own will , can not be held to be disqualified from voting . 15 . Mere acts of charity , where the intent is to relieve the wants of the object of such charity , and not done in aid of the cause in which he may have been engaged , do not disqualify but organized contributions of food and clothing for the general relief of persons engaged in the rebellion , and not of a merely sanitary character , but contributed to enable them to perform their unlawful object , may be classed with acts which do disqualify . Forced contributions to the rebel cause in the form of taxes or military assessments , which a person was compelled to pay or contribute , do not disqualify but voluntary contributions to the rebel cause . even such indirect contributions as arise from the voluntary loan of money to rebel authorities or purchase of bonds or securities created to afford the means of carrying on the rebellion , will work disqualification . 16 . All those who in legislative or other official capacity were engaged in the furtherance of the common unlawful purpose , where the duties of the office necessarily had relation to the support of the rebellion , such as members of the rebel conventions , congresses , and legislatures , diplomatic agents of the rebel Confederacy , and other officials whose offices were created for the purpose of more effectually carrying on hostilities or whose duties appertained to the support of the rebel cause , must be held to be disqualified . But officers who during the rebellion discharged official duties not incident to war , but only such duties as belong even to a state of peace and were necessary to the preservation of order and the administration of law , are not to be considered as thereby engaging in rebellion or as disqualified . Disloyal sentiments , opinions , or sympathies would not disqualify , but where a person has by speech or by writing incited others to engage in rebellion he must come under the disqualification . 17 . The duties of the board appointed to superintend the elections This board , having the custody of the list of registered voters in the district for which it is constituted , must see that the name of the person offering to vote is found upon the registration list , and if such proves to be the fact it is the duty of the board to receive his vote if then qualified by residence . They can not receive the vote of any person whose name is not upon the list , though he may be ready to take the registration oath , and although he may satisfy them that he was unable to have his name registered at the proper time , in consequence of absence , sickness , or other cause . The board can not enter into any inquiry as to the qualifications of any person whose name is not on the registration list , or as to the qualifications of any person whose name is on the list . 18 . The mode of voting is provided in the act to be by ballot . The board will keep a record and poll book of the election , showing the votes , list of voters , and the persons elected by a plurality of the votes cast at the election , and make returns of these to the commanding general of the district . 19 . The board appointed for registration and for superintending the elections must take the oath prescribed by the act of Congress approved July 2 , 1862 , entitled An act to prescribe an oath of office . By order of the President TOWNSEND , Assistant Adjutant General .<speech_sep>Fellow Citizens of the Senate and House of Representatives After a brief interval the Congress of the United States resumes its annual legislative labors . An all wise and merciful Providence has abated the pestilence which visited our shores , leaving its calamitous traces upon some portions of our country . Peace , order , tranquillity , and civil authority have been formally declared to exist throughout the whole of the United States . In all of the States civil authority has superseded the coercion of arms , and the people , by their voluntary action , are maintaining their governments in full activity and complete operation . The enforcement of the laws is no longer obstructed in any State by combinations too powerful to be suppressed by the ordinary course of judicial proceedings , and the animosities engendered by the war are rapidly yielding to the beneficent influences of our free institutions and to the kindly effects of unrestricted social and commercial intercourse . An entire restoration of fraternal feeling must be the earnest wish of every patriotic heart and we will have accomplished our grandest national achievement when , forgetting the sad events of the past and remembering only their instructive lessons , we resume our onward career as a free , prosperous , and united people . In my message of the 4th of December , 1865 , Congress was informed of the measures which had been instituted by the Executive with a view to the gradual restoration of the States in which the insurrection occurred to their relations with the General Government . Provisional governors had been appointed , conventions called , governors elected , legislatures assembled , and Senators and Representatives chosen to the Congress of the United States . Courts had been opened for the enforcement of laws long in abeyance . The blockade had been removed , custom houses reestablished , and the internal revenue laws put in force , in order that the people might contribute to the national income . Postal operations had been renewed , and efforts were being made to restore them to their former condition of efficiency . The States themselves had been asked to take Dart in the high function of amending the Constitution , and of thus sanctioning the extinction of African slavery as one of the legitimate results of our internecine struggle . Having progressed thus far , the executive department found that it had accomplished nearly all that was within the scope of its constitutional authority . One thing , however , yet remained to be done before the work of restoration could be completed , and that was the admission to Congress of loyal Senators and Representatives from the States whose people had rebelled against the lawful authority of the General Government . This question devolved upon the respective Houses , which by the Constitution are made the judges of the elections , returns , and qualifications of their own members , and its consideration at once engaged the attention of Congress . In the meantime the executive department no other plan having been proposed by Congress continued its efforts to perfect , as far as was practicable , the restoration of the proper relations between the citizens of the respective States , the States , and the Federal Government , extending from time to time , as the public interests seemed to require , the judicial , revenue , and postal systems of the country . With the advice and consent of the Senate , the necessary officers were appointed and appropriations made by Congress for the payment of their salaries . The proposition to amend the Federal Constitution , so as to prevent the existence of slavery within the United States or any place subject to their jurisdiction , was ratified by the requisite number of States , and on the 18th day of December , 1865 , it was officially declared to have become valid as a part of the Constitution of the United States . All of the States in which the insurrection had existed promptly amended their constitutions so as to make them conform to the great change thus effected in the organic law of the land declared null and void all ordinances and laws of secession repudiated all pretended debts and obligations created for the revolutionary purposes of the insurrection , and proceeded in good faith to the enactment of measures for the protection and amelioration of the condition of the colored race . Congress , however , yet hesitated to admit any of these States to representation , and it was not until toward the close of the eighth month of the session that an exception was made in favor of Tennessee by the admission of her Senators and Representatives . I deem it a subject of profound regret that Congress has thus far failed to admit to seats loyal Senators and Representatives from the other States whose inhabitants , with those of Tennessee , had engaged in the rebellion . Ten States more than one fourth of the whole number remain without representation the seats of fifty members in the House of Representatives and of twenty members in the Senate are yet vacant , not by their own consent , not by a failure of election , but by the refusal of Congress to accept their credentials . Their admission , it is believed , would have accomplished much toward the renewal and strengthening of our relations as one people and removed serious cause for discontent on the part of the inhabitants of those States . It would have accorded with the great principle enunciated in the Declaration of American Independence that no people ought to bear the burden of taxation and yet be denied the right of representation . It would have been in consonance with the express provisions of the Constitution that each State shall have at least one Representative and that no State , without its consent , shall be deprived of its equal suffrage in the Senate . These provisions were intended to secure to every State and to the people of every State the right of representation in each House of Congress and so important was it deemed by the framers of the Constitution that the equality of the States in the Senate should be preserved that not even by an amendment of the Constitution can any State , without its consent , be denied a voice in that branch of the National Legislature . It is true it has been assumed that the existence of the States was terminated by the rebellious acts of their inhabitants , and that , the insurrection having been suppressed , they were thenceforward to be considered merely as conquered territories . The legislative , executive , and judicial departments of the Government have , however , with Heat distinctness and uniform consistency , refused to sanction an assumption so incompatible with the nature of our republican system and with the professed objects of the war . Throughout the recent legislation of Congress the undeniable fact makes itself apparent that these ten political communities are nothing less than States of this Union . At the very commencement of the rebellion each House declared , with a unanimity as remarkable as it was significant , that the war was not waged upon our part in any spirit of oppression , nor for any purpose of conquest or subjugation , nor purpose of overthrowing or interfering with the rights or established institutions of those States , but to defend and maintain the supremacy of the Constitution and all laws made in pursuance thereof , and to preserve the Union , with all the dignity , equality , and rights of the several States unimpaired and that as soon as these objects were accomplished the war ought to cease . In some instances Senators were permitted to continue their legislative functions , while in other instances Representatives were elected and admitted to seats after their States had formally declared their right to withdraw from the Union and were endeavoring to maintain that right by force of arms . All of the States whose people were in insurrection , as States , were included in the apportionment of the direct tax of 20 , 000 , 000 annually laid upon the United States by the act approved 5th August , 1861 . Congress , by the act of March 4 , 1862 , and by the apportionment of representation thereunder also recognized their presence as States in the Union and they have , for judicial purposes , been divided into districts , as States alone can be divided . The same recognition appears in the recent legislation in reference to Tennessee , which evidently rests upon the fact that the functions of the State were not destroyed by the rebellion , but merely suspended and that principle is of course applicable to those States which , like Tennessee , attempted to renounce their places in the Union . The action of the executive department of the Government upon this subject has been equally definite and uniform , and the purpose of the war was specifically stated in the proclamation issued by my predecessor on the 22d day of September , 1862 . It was then solemnly proclaimed and declared that hereafter , as heretofore , the war will be prosecuted for the object of practically restoring the constitutional relation between the United States and each of the States and the people thereof in which States that relation is or may be suspended or disturbed . The recognition of the States by the judicial department of the Government has also been dear and conclusive in all proceedings affecting them as States had in the Supreme , circuit , and district courts . In the admission of Senators and Representatives from any and all of the States there can be no just ground of apprehension that persons who are disloyal will be clothed with the powers of legislation , for this could not happen when the Constitution and the laws are enforced by a vigilant and faithful Congress . Each House is made the judge of the elections , returns , and qualifications of its own members , and may , with the concurrence of two thirds , expel a member . When a Senator or Representative presents his certificate of election , he may at once be admitted or rejected or , should there be any question as to his eligibility , his credentials may be referred for investigation to the appropriate committee . If admitted to a seat , it must be upon evidence satisfactory to the House of which he thus becomes a member that he possesses the requisite constitutional and legal qualifications . If refused admission as a member for want of due allegiance to the Government and returned to his constituents , they are admonished that none but persons loyal to the United States will be allowed a voice in the legislative councils of the nation , and the political power and moral influence of Congress are thus effectively exerted in the interests of loyalty to the Government and fidelity to the Union . Upon this question , so vitally affecting the restoration of the Union and the permanency of our present form of government , my convictions , heretofore expressed , have undergone no change , but , on the contrary , their correctness has been confirmed by reflection and time . If the admission of loyal members to seats in the respective Houses of Congress was wise and expedient a year ago , it is no less wise and expedient now . If this anomalous condition is right now if in the exact condition of these States at the present time it is lawful to exclude them from representation I do not see that the question will be changed by the efflux of time . Ten years hence . if these States remain as they are , the right of representation will be no stronger , the right of exclusion will be no weaker . The Constitution of the United States makes it the duty of the President to recommend to the consideration of Congress such measures as he shall judge necessary and expedient . I know of no measure more imperatively demanded by every consideration of national interest , sound policy , and equal justice than the admission of loyal members from the now unrepresented States . This would consummate the work of restoration and exert a most salutary influence in the reestablishment of peace , harmony , and fraternal feeling . It would tend greatly to renew the confidence of the American people in the vigor and stability of their institutions . It would bind us more closely together as a nation and enable us to show to the world the inherent and recuperative power of a government founded upon the will of the people and established upon the principles of liberty , justice , and intelligence . Our increased strength and enhanced prosperity would irrefragably demonstrate the fallacy of the arguments against free institutions drawn from our recent national disorders by the enemies of republican government . The admission of loyal members from the States now excluded from Congress , by allaying doubt and apprehension , would turn capital now awaiting an opportunity for investment into the channels of trade and industry . It would alleviate the present troubled condition of those States , and by inducing emigration aid in the settlement of fertile regions now uncultivated and lead to an increased production of those staples which have added so greatly to the wealth of the nation and commerce of the world . New fields of enterprise would be opened to our progressive people and soon the devastations of war would be repaired and all traces of our domestic differences effaced from the minds of our countrymen . In our efforts to preserve the unity of government which constitutes as one people by restoring the States to the condition which they held prior to the rebellion , we should be cautious , lest , having rescued our nation from perils of threatened disintegration , we resort to consolidation , and in the end absolute despotism , as a remedy for the recurrence of similar troubles . The war having terminated , and with it all occasion for the exercise of powers of doubtful constitutionality , we should hasten to bring legislation within the boundaries prescribed by the Constitution and to return to the ancient landmarks established by our fathers for the guidance of succeeding generations . The constitution which at any time exists till changed by an explicit and authentic act of the whole people is sacredly obligatory upon all . If in the opinion of the people the distribution or modification of the constitutional powers be in any particular wrong , let it be corrected by an amendment in the way which the Constitution designates but let there be no change by usurpation , for it is the customary weapon by which free governments are destroyed . Washington spoke these words to his countrymen when , followed by their love and gratitude , he voluntarily retired from the cares of public life . To keep in all things within the pale of our constitutional powers and cherish the Federal Union as the only rock of safety were prescribed by Jefferson as rules of action to endear to his countrymen the true principles of their Constitution and promote a union of sentiment and action , equally auspicious to their happiness and safety . Jackson held that the action of the General Government should always be strictly confined to the sphere of its appropriate duties , and justly and forcibly urged that our Government is not to be maintained nor our Union preserved by invasions of the rights and powers of the several States . In thus attempting to make our General Government strong we make it weak . Its true strength consists in leaving individuals and States as much as possible to themselves in making itself felt , not in its power , but in its beneficence not in its control , but in its protection not in binding the States more closely to the center , but leaving each to move unobstructed in its proper constitutional orbit . These are the teachings of men whose deeds and services have made them illustrious , and who , long since withdrawn from the scenes of life , have left to their country the rich legacy of their example , their wisdom , and their patriotism . Drawing fresh inspiration from their lessons , let us emulate them in love of country and respect for the Constitution and the laws . The report of the Secretary of the Treasury affords much information respecting the revenue and commerce of the country . His views upon the currency and with reference to a proper adjustment of our revenue system , internal as well as impost , are commended to the careful consideration of Congress . In my last annual message I expressed my general views upon these subjects . I need now only call attention to the necessity of carrying into every department of the Government a system of rigid accountability , thorough retrenchment , and wise economy . With no exceptional nor unusual expenditures , the oppressive burdens of taxation can be lessened by such a modification of our revenue laws as will be consistent with the public faith and the legitimate and necessary wants of the Government . The report presents a much more satisfactory condition of our finances than one year ago the most sanguine could have anticipated . During the fiscal year ending the 30th June , 1865 the last year of the war , the public debt was increased 941 , 902 , 537 , and on the 31st of October , 1865 , it amounted to 2 , 740 , 854 , 750 . On the 31st day of October , 1866 , it had been reduced to 2 , 552 , 310 , 006 , the diminution during a period of fourteen months , commencing September 1 , 1865 , and ending October 31 , 1866 , having been 206 , 379 , 565 . In the last annual report on the state of the finances it was estimated that during the three quarters of the fiscal year ending the 30th of June last the debt would be increased 112 , 194 , 947 . During that period , however , it was reduced 31 , 196 , 387 , the receipts of the year having been 89 , 905 , 905 more and the expenditures 200 , 529 , 235 less than the estimates . Nothing could more clearly indicate than these statements the extent and availability of the national resources and the rapidity and safety with which under our form of government , great military and naval establishments can be disbanded and expenses reduced from a war to a peace footing . During the fiscal year ending June 30 , 1866 , the receipts were 558 , 032 , 620 and the expenditures 520 , 750 , 940 , leaving an available surplus of 37 , 281 , 680 . It is estimated that the receipts for the fiscal year ending the 30th June , 1867 , will be 475 , 061 . 386 , and that the expenditures will reach the sum of 316 , 428 , 078 , leaving in the Treasury a surplus of 158 , 633 , 308 . For the fiscal year ending June 30 , 1886 , it is estimated that the receipts will amount to 436 , 000 , 000 and that the expenditures will be 350 , 247 , 641 , showing an excess of 85 , 752 , 359 in favor of the Government . These estimated receipts may be diminished by a reduction of excise and import duties , but after all necessary reductions shall have been made the revenue of the present and of following years will doubtless be sufficient to cover all legitimate charges upon the Treasury and leave a large annual surplus to be applied to the payment of the principal of the debt . There seems now to be no good reason why taxes may not be reduced as the country advances in population and wealth , and yet the debt be extinguished within the next quarter of a century . The report of the Secretary of War furnishes valuable and important information in reference to the operations of his Department during the past year . Few volunteers now remain in the service , and they are being discharged as rapidly as they can be replaced by regular troops . The Army has been promptly paid , carefully provided with medical treatment , well sheltered and subsisted , and is to be furnished with breech loading small arms . The military strength of the nation has been unimpaired by the discharge of volunteers , the disposition of unserviceable or perishable stores , and the retrenchment of expenditure . Sufficient war material to meet any emergency has been retained , and from the disbanded volunteers standing ready to respond to the national call large armies can be rapidly organized , equipped , and concentrated . Fortifications on the coast and frontier have received or are being prepared for more powerful armaments lake surveys and harbor and river improvements are in course of energetic prosecution . Preparations have been made for the payment of the additional bounties authorized during the recent session of Congress , under such regulations as will protect the Government from fraud and secure to the honorably discharged soldier the well earned reward of his faithfulness and gallantry . More than 6 , 000 maimed soldiers have received artificial limbs or other surgical apparatus and 41 national cemeteries , containing the remains of 104 , 526 Union soldiers , have already been established . The total estimate of military appropriations is 25 , 205 , 669 . It is stated in the report of the Secretary of the Navy that the naval force at this time consists of 278 vessels , armed with 2 , 351 guns . Of these , 115 vessels , carrying 1 , 029 guns , are in commission , distributed chiefly among seven squadrons . The number of men in the service is 13 , 600 . Great activity and vigilance have been displayed by all the squadrons , and their movements have been judiciously and efficiently arranged in such manner as would best promote American commerce and protect the rights and interests of our countrymen abroad . The vessels unemployed are undergoing repairs or are laid up until their services may be required . Most of the ironclad fleet is at League Island , in the vicinity of Philadelphia , a place which , until decisive action should be taken by Congress , was selected by the Secretary of the Navy as the most eligible location for that class of vessels . It is important that a suitable public station should be provided for the ironclad fleet . It is intended that these vessels shall be in proper condition for any emergency , and it is desirable that the bill accepting League Island for naval purposes , which passed the House of Representatives at its last session , should receive final action at an early period , in order that there may be a suitable public station for this class of vessels , as well as a navy yard of area sufficient for the wants of the service on the Delaware River . The naval pension fund amounts to 11 , 750 , 000 , having been increased 2 , 750 , 000 during the year . The expenditures of the Department for the fiscal year ending 30th June last were 43 , 324 , 526 , and the estimates for the coming year amount to 23 , 568 , 436 . Attention is invited to the condition of our seamen and the importance of legislative measures for their relief and improvement . The suggestions in behalf of this deserving class of our fellow citizens are earnestly recommended to the favorable attention of Congress . The report of the Postmaster General presents a most satisfactory condition of the postal service and submits recommendations which deserve the consideration of Congress . The revenues of the Department for the year ending June 30 , 1866 , were 14 , 386 , 986 and the expenditures 15 , 352 , 079 , showing an excess of the latter of 965 , 093 . In anticipation of this deficiency , however , a special appropriation was made by Congress in the act approved July 28 , 1866 . Including the standing appropriation of 700 , 000 for free mail matter as a legitimate portion of the revenues , yet remaining unexpended , the actual deficiency for the past year is only 265 , 093 a sum within 51 , 141 of the amount estimated in the annual report of 1864 . The decrease of revenue compared with the previous year was 1 1 5 per cent , and the increase of expenditures , owing principally to the enlargement of the mail service in the South , was 12 per cent . On the 30th of June last there were in operation 6 , 930 mail routes , with an aggregate length of 180 , 921 miles , an aggregate annual transportation of 71 , 837 , 914 miles , and an aggregate annual cost , including all expenditures , of 8 , 410 , 184 . The length of railroad routes is 32 , 092 miles and the annual transportation 30 , 609 , 467 miles . The length of steamboat routes is 14 , 346 miles and the annual transportation 3 , 411 , 962 miles . The mail service is rapidly increasing throughout the whole country , and its steady extension in the Southern States indicates their constantly improving condition . The growing importance of the foreign service also merits attention . The post office department of Great Britain and our own have agreed upon a preliminary basis for a new postal convention , which it is believed will prove eminently beneficial to the commercial interests of the United States , inasmuch as it contemplates a reduction of the international letter postage to one half the existing rates a reduction of postage with all other countries to and from which correspondence is transmitted in the British mail , or in closed mails through the United Kingdom the establishment of uniform and reasonable charges for the sea and territorial transit of correspondence in closed mails and an allowance to each post office department of the right to use all mail communications established under the authority of the other for the dispatch of correspondence , either in open or closed mails , on the same terms as those applicable to the inhabitants of the country providing the means of transmission . The report of the Secretary of the Interior exhibits the condition of those branches of the public service which are committed to his supervision . During the last fiscal year 4 , 629 , 312 acres of public land were disposed of , 1 , 892 , 516 acres of which were entered under the Homestead Act . The policy originally adopted relative to the public lands has undergone essential modifications . Immediate revenue , and not their rapid settlement , was the cardinal feature of our land system . Long experience and earnest discussion have resulted in the conviction that the early development of our agricultural resources and the diffusion of an energetic population over our vast territory are objects of far greater importance to the national growth and prosperity than the proceeds of the sale of the land to the highest bidder in open market . The preemption laws confer upon the pioneer who complies with the terms they impose the privilege of purchasing a limited portion of unoffered lands at the minimum price . The homestead enactments relieve the settler from the payment of purchase money , and secure him a permanent home upon the condition of residence for a term of years . This liberal policy invites emigration from the Old and from the more crowded portions of the New World . Its propitious results are undoubted , and will be more signally manifested when time shall have given to it a wider development . Congress has made liberal grants of public land to corporations in aid of the construction of railroads and other internal improvements . Should this policy hereafter prevail , more stringent provisions will be required to secure a faithful application of the fund . The title to the lands should not pass , by patent or otherwise , but remain in the Government and subject to its control until some portion of the road has been actually built . Portions of them might then from time to time be conveyed to the corporation , but never in a greater ratio to the whole quantity embraced by the grant than the completed parts bear to the entire length of the projected improvement . This restriction would not operate to the prejudice of any undertaking conceived in good faith and executed with reasonable energy , as it is the settled practice to withdraw from market the lands falling within the operation of such grants , and thus to exclude the inception of a subsequent adverse right . A breach of the conditions which Congress may deem proper to impose should work a forfeiture of claim to the lands so withdrawn but unconveyed , and of title to the lands conveyed which remain unsold . Operations on the several lines of the Pacific Railroad have been prosecuted with unexampled vigor and success . Should no unforeseen causes of delay occur , it is confidently anticipated that this great thoroughfare will be completed before the expiration of the period designated by Congress . During the last fiscal year the amount paid to pensioners , including the expenses of disbursement , was 13 , 459 , 996 , and 50 , 177 names were added to the pension rolls . The entire number of pensioners June 30 , 1866 , was 126 , 722 . This fact furnishes melancholy and striking proof of the sacrifices made to vindicate the constitutional authority of the Federal Government and to maintain inviolate the integrity of the Union They impose upon us corresponding obligations . It is estimated that 33 , 000 , 000 will be required to meet the exigencies of this branch of the service during the next fiscal year . Treaties have been concluded with the Indians , who , enticed into armed opposition to our Government at the outbreak of the rebellion , have unconditionally submitted to our authority and manifested an earnest desire for a renewal of friendly relations . During the year ending September 30 , 1866 , 8 , 716 patents for useful inventions and designs were issued , and at that date the balance in the Treasury to the credit of the patent fund was 228 , 297 . As a subject upon which depends an immense amount of the production and commerce of the country , I recommend to Congress such legislation as may be necessary for the preservation of the levees of the Mississippi River . It is a matter of national importance that early steps should be taken , not only to add to the efficiency of these barriers against destructive inundations , but for the removal of all obstructions to the free and safe navigation of that great channel of trade and commerce . The District of Columbia under existing laws is not entitled to that representation in the national councils which from our earliest history has been uniformly accorded to each Territory established from time to time within our limits . It maintains peculiar relations to Congress , to whom the Constitution has granted the power of exercising exclusive legislation over the seat of Government . Our fellow citizens residing in the District , whose interests are thus confided to the special guardianship of Congress , exceed in number the population of several of our Territories , and no just reason is perceived why a Delegate of their choice should not be admitted to a seat in the House of Representatives . No mode seems so appropriate and effectual of enabling them to make known their peculiar condition and wants and of securing the local legislation adapted to them . I therefore recommend the passage of a law authorizing the electors of the District of Columbia to choose a Delegate , to be allowed the same rights and privileges as a Delegate representing a Territory . The increasing enterprise and rapid progress of improvement in the District are highly gratifying , and I trust that the efforts of the municipal authorities to promote the prosperity of the national metropolis will receive the efficient and generous cooperation of Congress . The report of the Commissioner of Agriculture reviews the operations of his Department during the past year , and asks the aid of Congress in its efforts to encourage those States which , scourged by war , are now earnestly engaged in the reorganization of domestic industry . It is a subject of congratulation that no foreign combinations against our domestic peace and safety or our legitimate influence among the nations have been formed or attempted . While sentiments of reconciliation , loyalty , and patriotism have increased at home , a more just consideration of our national character and rights has been manifested by foreign nations . The entire success of the Atlantic telegraph between the coast of Ireland and the Province of Newfoundland is an achievement which has been justly celebrated in both hemispheres as the opening of an era in the progress of civilization . There is reason to expect that equal success will attend and even greater results follow the enterprise for connecting the two continents through the Pacific Ocean by the projected line of telegraph between Kamchatka and the Russian possessions in America . The resolution of Congress protesting against pardons by foreign governments of persons convicted of infamous offenses on condition of emigration to our country has been communicated to the states with which we maintain intercourse , and the practice , so justly the subject of complaint on our part , has not been renewed . The congratulations of Congress to the Emperor of Russia upon his escape from attempted assassination have been presented to that humane and enlightened ruler and received by him with expressions of grateful appreciation . The Executive , warned of an attempt by Spanish American adventurers to induce the emigration of freedmen of the United States to a foreign country , protested against the project as one which , if consummated , would reduce them to a bondage even more oppressive than that from which they have just been relieved . Assurance has been received from the Government of the State in which the plan was matured that the proceeding will meet neither its encouragement nor approval . It is a question worthy of your consideration whether our laws upon this subject are adequate to the prevention or punishment of the crime thus meditated . In the month of April last , as Congress is aware , a friendly arrangement was made between the Emperor of France and the President of the United States for the withdrawal from Mexico of the French expeditionary military forces . This withdrawal was to be effected in three detachments , the first of which , it was understood , would leave Mexico in November , now past , the second in March next , and the third and last in November , 1867 . Immediately upon the completion of the evacuation the French Government was to assume the same attitude of nonintervention in regard to Mexico as is held by the Government of the United States . Repeated assurances have been given by the Emperor since that agreement that he would complete the promised evacuation within the period mentioned , or sooner . It was reasonably expected that the proceedings thus contemplated would produce a crisis of great political interest in the Republic of Mexico . The newly appointed minister of the United States , Campbell , was therefore sent forward on the 9th day of November last to assume his proper functions as minister plenipotentiary of the United States to that Republic . It was also thought expedient that he should be attended in the vicinity of Mexico by the Lieutenant General of the Army of the United States , with the view of obtaining such information as might be important to determine the course to be pursued by the United States in reestablishing and maintaining necessary and proper intercourse with the Republic of Mexico . Deeply interested in the cause of liberty and humanity , it seemed an obvious duty on our part to exercise whatever influence we possessed for the restoration and permanent establishment in that country of a domestic and republican form of government . Such was the condition of our affairs in regard to Mexico when , on the 22d of November last , official information was received from Paris that the Emperor of France had some time before decided not to withdraw a detachment of his forces in the month of November past , according to engagement , but that this decision was made with the purpose of withdrawing the whole of those forces in the ensuing spring . Of this determination , however , the United States had not received any notice or intimation , and so soon as the information was received by the Government care was taken to make known its dissent to the Emperor of France . I can not forego the hope that France will reconsider the subject and adopt some resolution in regard to the evacuation of Mexico which will conform as nearly as practicable with the existing engagement , and thus meet the just expectations of the United States . The papers relating to the subject will be laid before you . It is believed that with the evacuation of Mexico by the expeditionary forces no subject for serious differences between France and the United States would remain . The expressions of the Emperor and people of France warrant a hope that the traditionary friendship between the two countries might in that case be renewed and permanently restored . A claim of a citizen of the United States for indemnity for spoliations committed on the high seas by the French authorities in the exercise of a belligerent power against Mexico has been met by the Government of France with a proposition to defer settlement until a mutual convention for the adjustment of all claims of citizens and subjects of both countries arising out of the recent wars on this continent shall be agreed upon by the two countries . The suggestion is not deemed unreasonable . but it belongs to Congress to direct the manner in which claims for indemnity by foreigners as well as by citizens of the United States arising out of the late civil war shall be adjudicated and determined . I have no doubt that the subject of all such claims will engage your attention at a convenient and proper time . It is a matter of regret that no considerable advance has been made toward an adjustment of the differences between the United States and Great Britain arising out of the depredations upon our national commerce and other trespasses committed during our civil war by British subjects , in violation of international law and treaty obligations . The delay , however , may be believed to have resulted in no small degree from the domestic situation of Great Britain . An entire change of ministry occurred in that country during the last session of Parliament . The attention of the new ministry was called to the subject at an early day , and there is some reason to expect that it will now be considered in a becoming and friendly spirit . The importance of an early disposition of the question can not be exaggerated . Whatever might be the wishes of the two Governments , it is manifest that good will and friendship between the two countries can not be established until a reciprocity in the practice of good faith and neutrality shall be restored between the respective nations . On the 6th of June last , in violation of our neutrality laws , a military expedition and enterprise against the British North American colonies was projected and attempted to be carried on within the territory and jurisdiction of the United States . In obedience to the obligation imposed upon the Executive by the Constitution to see that the laws are faithfully executed , all citizens were warned by proclamation against taking part in or aiding such unlawful proceedings , and the proper civil , military , and naval officers were directed to take all necessary measures for the enforcement of the laws . The expedition failed , but it has not been without its painful consequences . Some of our citizens who , it was alleged , were engaged in the expedition were captured , and have been brought to trial as for a capital offense in the Province of Canada . Judgment and sentence of death have been pronounced against some , while others have been acquitted . Fully believing in the maxim of government that severity of civil punishment for misguided persons who have engaged in revolutionary attempts which have disastrously failed is unsound and unwise , such representations have been made to the British Government in behalf of the convicted persons as , being sustained by an enlightened and humane judgment , will , it is hoped , induce in their cases an exercise of clemency and a judicious amnesty to all who were engaged in the movement . Counsel has been employed by the Government to defend citizens of the United States on trial for capital offenses in Canada , and a discontinuance of the prosecutions which were instituted in the courts of the United States against those who took part in the expedition has been directed . I have regarded the expedition as not only political in its nature , but as also in a great measure foreign from the United States in its causes , character , and objects . The attempt was understood to be made in sympathy with an insurgent party in Ireland , and by striking at a British Province on this continent was designed to aid in obtaining redress for political grievances which , it was assumed , the people of Ireland had suffered at the hands of the British Government during a period of several centuries . The persons engaged in it were chiefly natives of that country , some of whom had , while others had not , become citizens of the United States under our general laws of naturalization . Complaints of misgovernment in Ireland continually engage the attention of the British nation , and so great an agitation is now prevailing in Ireland that the British Government have deemed it necessary to suspend the writ of habeas corpus in that country . These circumstances must necessarily modify the opinion which we might otherwise have entertained in regard to an expedition expressly prohibited by our neutrality laws . So long as those laws remain upon our statute books they should be faithfully executed , and if they operate harshly , unjustly , or oppressively Congress alone can apply the remedy by their modification or repeal . Political and commercial interests of the United States are not unlikely to be affected in some degree by events which are transpiring in the eastern regions of Europe , and the time seems to have come when our Government ought to have a proper diplomatic representation in Greece . This Government has claimed for all persons not convicted or accused or suspected of crime an absolute political right of self expatriation and a choice of new national allegiance . Most of the European States have dissented from this principle , and have claimed a right to hold such of their subjects as have emigrated to and been naturalized in the United States and afterwards returned on transient visits to their native countries to the performance of military service in like manner as resident subjects . Complaints arising from the claim in this respect made by foreign states have heretofore been matters of controversy between the United States and some of the European powers , and the irritation consequent upon the failure to settle this question increased during the war in which Prussia , Italy , and Austria were recently engaged . While Great Britain has never acknowledged the right of expatriation , she has not for some years past practically insisted upon the opposite doctrine . France has been equally forbearing , and Prussia has proposed a compromise , which , although evincing increased liberality , has not been accepted by the United States . Peace is now prevailing everywhere in Europe , and the present seems to be a favorable time for an assertion by Congress of the principle so long maintained by the executive department that naturalization by one state fully exempts the native born subject of any other state from the performance of military service under any foreign government , so long as he does not voluntarily renounce its rights and benefits . In the performance of a duty imposed upon me by the Constitution I have thus submitted to the representatives of the States and of the people such information of our domestic and foreign affairs as the public interests seem to require . Our Government is now undergoing its most trying ordeal , and my earnest prayer is that the peril may be successfully and finally passed without impairing its original strength and symmetry . The interests of the nation are best to be promoted by the revival of fraternal relations , the complete obliteration of our past differences , and the reinauguration of all the pursuits of peace . Directing our efforts to the early accomplishment of these great ends , let us endeavor to preserve harmony between the coordinate departments of the Government , that each in its proper sphere may cordially cooperate with the other in securing the maintenance of the Constitution , the preservation of the Union , and the perpetuity of our free institutions .<speech_sep>To the House of Representatives In compliance with the resolution adopted yesterday by the House of Representatives , requesting any further correspondence the President may have had with General Grant , in addition to that heretofore submitted , on the subject of the recent vacation by the latter of the War Office , I transmit herewith a copy of a communication addressed to General Grant on the 10th instant , together with a copy of the accompanying papers . ANDREW JOHNSON . EXECUTIVE MANSIOFebruary 10 , 1868 . General GRANT , Commanding Armies of the United States , Washington , C . GENERAThe extraordinary character of your letter of the 3d instant would seem to preclude any reply on my part but the manner in which publicity has been given to the correspondence of which that letter forms a part and the grave questions which are involved induce me to take this mode of giving , as a proper sequel to the communications which have passed between us , the statements of the five members of the Cabinet who were present on the occasion of our conversation on the 14th ultimo . Copies of the letters which they have addressed to me upon the subject are accordingly herewith inclosed . You speak of my letter of the 31st ultimo as a reiteration of the many and gross misrepresentations contained in certain newspaper articles , and reassert the correctness of the statements contained in your communication of the 28th ultimo , adding and here I give your own words anything in yours in reply to it to the contrary notwithstanding . When a controversy upon matters of fact reaches the point to which this has been brought , further assertion or denial between the immediate parties should cease , especially where upon either side it loses the character of the respectful discussion which is required by the relations in which the parties stand to each other and degenerates in tone and temper . In such a case , if there is nothing to rely upon but the opposing statements , conclusions must be drawn from those statements alone and from whatever intrinsic probabilities they afford in favor of or against either of the parties . I should not shrink from this test in this controversy but , fortunately , it is not left to this test alone . There were five Cabinet officers present at the conversation the detail of which in my letter of the 28th 31st ultimo you allow yourself to say contains many and gross misrepresentations . These gentlemen heard that conversation and have read my statement . They speak for themselves , and I leave the proof without a word of comment . I deem it proper before concluding this communication to notice some of the statements contained in your letter . You say that a performance of the promises alleged to have been made by you to the President would have involved a resistance to law and an inconsistency with the whole history of my connection with the suspension of Stanton . You then state that you had fears the President would , on the removal of Stanton , appoint someone in his place who would embarrass the Army in carrying out the reconstruction acts , and add It was to prevent such an appointment that I accepted the office of Secretary of War ad interim , and not for the purpose of enabling you to get rid of Stanton by withholding it from him in opposition to law , or , not doing so myself , surrendering it to one who would , as the statements and assumptions in your communication plainly indicate was sought . First of all , you here admit that from the very beginning of what you term the whole history of your connection with Stanton s suspension you intended to circumvent the President . It was to carry out that intent that you accepted the appointment . This was in your mind at the time of your acceptance . It was not , then , in obedience to the order of your superior , as has heretofore been supposed , that you assumed the duties of the office . You knew it was the President s purpose to prevent Stanton from resuming the office of Secretary of War , and you intended to defeat that purpose . You accepted the office , not in the interest of the President but of Stanton . If this purpose , so entertained by you , had been confined to yourself if when accepting the office you had done so with a mental reservation to frustrate the President , it would have been a tacit deception . In the ethics of some persons such a course is allowable . But you can not stand even upon that questionable ground . The history of your connection with this transaction , as written by yourself , places you in a different predicament , and shows that you not only concealed your design from the President , but induced him to suppose that you would carry out his purpose to keep Stanton out of office by retaining it yourself after an attempted restoration by the Senate , so as to require Stanton to establish his right by judicial decision . I now give that part of this history as written by yourself in your letter of the 28th ultimo Some time after I assumed the duties of Secretary of War ad interim the President asked me my views as to the course Stanton would have to pursue , in case the Senate should not concur in his suspension , to obtain possession of his office . My reply was , in substance , that Stanton would have to appeal to the courts to reinstate him , illustrating my position by citing the ground I had taken in the case of the Baltimore police commissioners . Now , at that time , as you admit in your letter of the 3d instant , you held the office for the very object of defeating an appeal to the courts . In that letter you say that in accepting the office one motive was to prevent the President from appointing some other person who would retain possession , and thus make judicial proceedings necessary . You knew the President was unwilling to trust the office with anyone who would not by holding it compel Stanton to resort to the courts . You perfectly understood that in this interview , some time after you accepted the office , the President , not content with your silence , desired an expression of your views , and you answered him that Stanton would have to appeal to the courts . If the President reposed confidence before he knew your views , and that confidence had been violated , it might have been said he made a mistake but a violation of confidence reposed after that conversation was no mistake of his nor of yours . It is the fact only that needs be stated , that at the date of this conversation you did not intend to hold the office with the purpose of forcing Stanton into court , but did hold it then and had accepted it to prevent that course from being carried out . In other words , you said to the President , That is the proper course , and you said to yourself , I have accepted this office , and now hold it to defeat that course . The excuse you make in a subsequent paragraph of that letter of the 28th ultimo , that afterwards you changed your views as to what would be a proper course , has nothing to do with the point now under consideration . The point is that before you changed your views you had secretly determined to do the very thing which at last you did surrender the office to Stanton . You may have changed your views as to the law , but you certainly did not change your views as to the course you had marked out for yourself from the beginning . I will only notice one more statement in your letter of the 3d instant that the performance of the promises which it is alleged were made by you would have involved you in the resistance of law . I know of no statute that would have been violated had you , carrying out your promises in good faith , tendered your resignation when you concluded not to be made a party in any legal proceedings . You add I am in a measure confirmed in this conclusion by your recent orders directing me to disobey orders from the Secretary of War , my superior and your subordinate , without having countermanded his authority to issue the orders I am to disobey . On the 24th ultimo you addressed a note to the President requesting in writing an order given to you verbally five days before to disregard orders from Stanton as Secretary of War until you knew from the President himself that they were his orders . On the 29th , in compliance with your request , I did give you instructions in writing not to obey any order from the War Department assumed to be issued by the direction of the President unless such order is known by the General Commanding the armies of the United States to have been authorized by the Executive . There are some orders which a Secretary of War may issue without the authority of the President , there are others which he issues simply as the agent of the President , and which purport to be by direction of the President . For such orders the President is responsible , and he should therefore know and understand what they are before giving such direction . Stanton states in his letter of the 4th instant , which accompanies the published correspondence , that he has had no correspondence with the President since the 12th of August last and he further says that since he resumed the duties of the office he has continued to discharge them without any personal or written communication with the President and he adds , No orders have been issued from this Department in the name of the President with my knowledge , and I have received no orders from him . It thus seems that Stanton now discharges the duties of the War Department without any reference to the President and without using his name . My order to you had only reference to orders assumed to be issued by the direction of the President . It would appear from Stanton s letter that you have received no such orders from him . However , in your note to the President of the 30th ultimo , in which you acknowledge the receipt of the written order of the 29th , you say that you have been informed by Stanton that he has not received any order limiting his authority to issue orders to the Army , according to the practice of the Department , and state that while this authority to the War Department is not countermanded it will be satisfactory evidence to me that any orders issued from the War Department by direction of the President are authorized by the Executive . The President issues an order to you to obey no order from the War Department purporting to be made by the direction of the President until you have referred it to him for his approval . You reply that you have received the President s order and will not obey it , but will obey an order purporting to be given by his direction if it comes from the War Department . You will not obey the direct order of the President , but will obey his indirect order . If , as you say , there has been a practice in the War Department to issue orders in the name of the President without his direction , does not the precise order you have requested and have received change the practice as to the General of the Army Could not the President countermand any such order issued to you from the War Department If you should receive an order from that Department , issued in the name of the President , to do a special act , and an order directly from the President himself not to do the act , is there a doubt which you are to obey You answer the question when you say to the President , in your letter of the 3d instant , the Secretary of War is my superior and your subordinate , and yet you refuse obedience to the superior out of a deference to the subordinate . Without further comment upon the insubordinate attitude which you have assumed , I am at a loss to know how you can relieve yourself from obedience to the orders of the President , who is made by the Constitution the Commander in Chief of the Army and Navy , and is therefore the official superior as well of the General of the Army as of the Secretary of War . Respectfully , yours , ANDREW JOHNSON . Letter addressed to each of the members of the Cabinet present at the conversation between the President and General Grant on the 14th of January , 1868 , and answers thereto . EXECUTIVE MANSION , Washington , C . , February 5 , 1868 . SIThe Chronicle of this morning contains a correspondence between the President and General Grant reported from the War Department in answer to a resolution of the House of Representatives . I beg to call your attention to that correspondence , and especially to that part of it which refers to the conversation between the President and General Grant at the Cabinet meeting on Tuesday , the 14th of January , and to request you to state what was said in that conversation . Very respectfully , yours , ANDREW JOHNSON . WASHINGTOC . , February 5 , 1868 . The PRESIDENT . SIYour note of this date was handed to me this evening . My recollection of the conversation at the Cabinet meeting on Tuesday , the 14th of January , corresponds with your statement of it in the letter of the 31st ultimo in the published correspondence . The three points specified in that letter , giving your recollection of the conversation , are correctly stated . Very respectfully , GIDEON WELLES . TREASURY DEPARTMENFebruary 6 , 1868 . The PRESIDENT . SII have received your note of the 5th instant , calling my attention to the correspondence between yourself and General Grant as published in the Chronicle of yesterday , especially to that part of it which relates to what occurred at the Cabinet meeting on Tuesday , the 14th ultimo , and requesting me to state what was said in the conversation referred to . I can not undertake to state the precise language used , but I have no hesitation in saying that your account of that conversation as given in your letter to General Grant under date of the 31st ultimo substantially and in all important particulars accords with my recollection of it . With great respect , your obedient servant , HUGH McCULLOCH . POST OFFICE DEPARTMENT , Washington , February , 6 , 1868 . The PRESIDENT . SII am in receipt of your letter of the 5th of February , calling my attention to the correspondence published in the Chronicle between the President and General Grant , and especially to that part of it which refers to the conversation between the President and General Grant at the Cabinet meeting on Tuesday , the 14th of January , with a request that state what was said in that conversation . In reply I have the honor to state that I have read carefully the correspondence in question , and particularly the letter of the President to General Grant dated January 31 , 1868 . The following extract from your letter of the 31st January to General Grant is , according to my recollection , a correct statement of the conversation that took place between the President and General Grant at the Cabinet meeting on the 14th of January last . In the presence of the Cabinet the President asked General Grant whether , in conversation which took place after his appointment as Secretary of War ad interim , he did not agree either to remain at the head of the War Department and abide any judicial proceedings that might follow the nonconcurrence by the Senate in Stanton s suspension , or , should he wish not to become involved in such a controversy , to put the President in the same position with respect to the office as be occupied previous to General Grant s appointment , by returning it to the President in time to anticipate such action by the Senate . This General Grant admitted . The President then asked General Grant if at the conference on the preceding Saturday he had not , to avoid misunderstanding , requested General Grant to state what he intended to do , and , further , if in reply to that inquiry he General Grant had not referred to their former conversations , saying that from them the President understood his position , and that his General Grant s action would be consistent with the understanding which had been reached . To these questions General Grant replied in the affirmative . The President asked General Grant if at the conclusion of their interview on Saturday it was not understood that they were to have another conference on Monday before final action by the Senate in the case of Stanton . General Grant replied that such was the understanding , but that he did not suppose the Senate would act so soon that on Monday he had been engaged in a conference with General Sherman , and was occupied with many little matters , and asked if General Sherman had not called on that day . I take this mode of complying with the request contained in the President s letter to me , because my attention had been called to the subject before , when the conversation between the President and General Grant was under consideration . Very respectfully , your obedient servant , ALERANDALL , Postmaster General . DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR , Washington , C . , February 6 , 1868 . The PRESIDENT . SII am in receipt of yours of yesterday , calling my attention to a correspondence between yourself and General Grant published in the Chronicle newspaper , and especially to that part of said correspondence which refers to the conversation between the President and General Grant at the Cabinet meeting on Tuesday , the 14th of January , and requesting me to state what was said in that conversation . In reply I submit the following statement At the Cabinet meeting on Tuesday , the 14th of January , 1868 , General Grant appeared and took his accustomed seat at the board . When he had been reached in the order of business , the President asked him , as usual , if he had anything to present . In reply the General , after referring to a note which he had that morning addressed to the President , inclosing a copy of the resolution of the Senate refusing to concur in the reasons for the suspension of Stanton , proceeded to say that he regarded his duties as Secretary of War ad interim terminated by that resolution , and that he could not lawfully exercise such duties for a moment after the adoption of the resolution by the Senate that the resolution reached him last night , and that this morning he had gone to the War Department , entered the Secretary s room , bolted one door on the inside , locked the other on the outside , delivered the key to the Adjutant General , and proceeded to the Headquarters of the Army and addressed the note above mentioned to the President , informing him that he General Grant was no longer Secretary of War ad interim . The President expressed great surprise at the course which General Grant had thought proper to pursue , and , addressing himself to the General , proceeded to say , in substance , that he had anticipated such action on the part of the Senate , and , being very desirous to have the constitutionality of the tenure of office bill tested and his fight to suspend or remove a member of the Cabinet decided by the judicial tribunals of the country he had some time ago , and shortly after General Grant s appointment as Secretary of War ad interim , asked the General what his action would be in the event that the Senate should refuse to concur in the suspension of Stanton , and that the General had then agreed either to remain at the head of the War Department till a decision could be obtained from the court or resign the office into the hands of the President before the case was acted upon by the Senate , so as to place the President in the same situation he occupied at the time of his Grant s appointment . The President further said that the conversation was renewed on the preceding Saturday , at which time he asked the General what he intended to do if the Senate should undertake to reinstate Stanton , in reply to which the General referred to their former conversation upon the same subject and said You understand my position , and my conduct will be conformable to that understanding that he the General then expressed a repugnance to being made a party to a judicial proceeding , saying that he would expose himself to fine and imprisonment by doing so , as his continuing to discharge the duties of Secretary of War ad interim after the Senate should have refused to concur in the suspension of Stanton would be a violation of the tenure of office bill that in reply to this he the President informed General Grant he had not suspended Stanton under the tenure of office bill , but by virtue of the powers conferred on him by the Constitution and that , as to the fine and imprisonment , he the President would pay whatever fine was imposed and submit to whatever imprisonment might be adjudged against him the General that they continued the conversation for some time , discussing the law at length , and that they finally separated without having reached a definite conclusion , and with the understanding that the General would see the President again on Monday . In reply General Grant admitted that the conversations had occurred , and said that at the first conversation he had given it as his opinion to the President that in the event of nonconcurrence by the Senate in the action of the President in respect to the Secretary of War the question would have to be decided by the court that Stanton would have to appeal to the court to reinstate him in office that the ins would remain in till they could be displaced and the outs put in by legal proceedings and that he then thought so , and had agreed that if he should change his mind he would notify the President in time to enable him to make another appointment , but that at the time of the first conversation he had not looked very closely into the law that it had recently been discussed by the newspapers , and that this had induced him to examine it more carefully , and that he had come to the conclusion that if the Senate should refuse to concur in the suspension Stanton would thereby be reinstated , and that he Grant could not continue thereafter to act as Secretary of War ad interim without subjecting himself to fine and imprisonment , and that he came over on Saturday to inform the President of this change in his views , and did so inform him that the President replied that be had not suspended Stanton under the tenure of office bill , but under the Constitution , and had appointed him Grant by virtue of the authority derived from the Constitution , etc that they continued to discuss the matter some time , and finally he left , without any conclusion having been reached , expecting to see the President again on Monday . He then proceeded to explain why he had not called on the President on Monday , saying that he had had a long interview with General Sherman , that various little matters had occupied his time till it was late , and that he did not think the Senate would act so soon , and asked Did not General Sherman call on you on Monday I do not know what passed between the President and General Grant on Saturday , except as I learned it from the conversation between them at the Cabinet meeting on Tuesday , and the foregoing is substantially what then occurred . The precise words used on the occasion are not , of course , given exactly in the order in which they were spoken , but the ideas expressed and the facts stated are faithfully preserved and presented . I have the honor to be , sir , with great respect , your obedient servant , BROWNING . DEPARTMENT OF STATE . Washington , February 6 , 1868 . The PRESIDENT . SIThe meeting to which you refer in your letter was a regular Cabinet meeting . While the members were assembling , and before the President had entered the council chamber , General Grant on coming in said to me that he was in attendance there , not as a member of the Cabinet , but upon invitation , and I replied by the inquiry whether there was a change in the War Department . After the President had taken his seat , business went on in the usual way of hearing matters submitted by the several Secretaries . When the time came for the Secretary of War , General Grant said that he was now there , not as Secretary of War , but upon the President s invitation that he had retired from the War Department . A slight difference then appeared about the supposed invitation , General Grant saying that the officer who had borne his letter to the President that morning announcing his retirement from the War Department had told him that the President desired to see him at the Cabinet , to which the President answered that when General Grant s communication was delivered to him the President simply replied that he supposed General Grant would be very soon at the Cabinet meeting . I regarded the conversation thus begun as an incidental one . It went on quite informally , and consisted of a statement on your part of your views in regard to the understanding of the tenure upon which General Grant had assented to hold the War Department ad interim and of his replies by way of answer and explanation . It was respectful and courteous on both sides . Being in this conversational form , its details could only have been preserved by verbatim report . So far as I know , no such report was made at the time . I can give only the general effect of the conversation . Certainly you stated that , although you had reported the reasons for Stanton s suspension to the Senate , you nevertheless held that he would not be entitled to resume the office of Secretary of War even if the Senate should disapprove of his suspension , and that you had proposed to have the question tested by judicial process , to be applied to the person who should be the incumbent of the Department under your designation of Secretary of War ad interim in the place of Stanton . You contended that this was well understood between yourself and General Grant that when he entered the War Department as Secretary ad interim he expressed his concurrence in a belief that the question of Stanton s restoration would be a question for the courts that in a subsequent conversation with General Grant you had adverted to the understanding thus had , and that General Grant expressed his concurrence in it that at some conversation which had been previously held General Grant said he still adhered to the same construction of the law , but said if he should change his opinion he would give you seasonable notice of it , so that you should in any case be placed in the same position in regard to the War Department that you were while General Grant held it ad interim . I did not understand General Grant as denying nor as explicitly admitting these statements in the form and full extent to which you made them . His admission of them was rather indirect and circumstantial , though I did not understand it to be an evasive one . He said that , reasoning from what occurred in the case of the police in Maryland , which he regarded as a parallel one , he was of opinion , and so assured you , that it would be his right and duty under your instructions to hold the War Office after the Senate should disapprove of Stanton s suspension until the question should be decided upon by the courts that he remained until very recently of that opinion , and that on the Saturday before the Cabinet meeting a conversation was held between yourself and him in which the subject was generally discussed . General Grant s statement was that in that conversation he had stated to you the legal difficulties which might arise , involving fine and imprisonment , under the civil tenure bill , and that he did not care to subject himself to those penalties that you replied to this remark that you regarded the civil tenure bill as unconstitutional and did not think its penalties were to be feared , or that you would voluntarily assume them and you insisted that General Grant should either retain the office until relieved by yourself , according to what you claimed was the original understanding between yourself and him , or , by seasonable notice of change of purpose on his part , put you in the same situation which you would be if he adhered . You claimed that General Grant finally said in that Saturday s conversation that you understood his views , and his proceedings thereafter would be consistent with what had been so understood . General Grant did not controvert , nor can I say that he admitted , this last statement . Certainly General Grant did not at any time in the Cabinet meeting insist that he had in the Saturday s conversation , either distinctly or finally , advised you of his determination to retire from the charge of the War Department otherwise than under your own subsequent direction . He acquiesced in your statement that the Saturday s conversation ended with an expectation that there would be a subsequent conference on the subject , which he , as well as yourself , supposed could seasonably take place on Monday . You then alluded to the fact that General Grant did not call upon you on Monday , as you had expected from that conversation . General Grant admitted that it was his expectation or purpose to call upon you on Monday . General Grant assigned reasons for the omission . He said he was in conference with General Sherman that there were many little matters to be attended to he had conversed upon the matter of the incumbency of the War Department with General Sherman , and he expected that General Sherman would call upon you on Monday . My own mind suggested a further explanation , but I do not remember whether it was mentioned or not , namely , that it was not supposed by General Grant on Monday that the Senate would decide the question so promptly as to anticipate further explanation between yourself and him if delayed beyond that day . General Grant made another explanation that he was engaged on Sunday with General Sherman , and I think , also , on Monday , in regard to the War Department matter , with a hope , though he did not say in an effort , to procure an amicable settlement of the affair of Stanton , and he still hoped that it would be brought about . I have the honor to be , with great respect , your obedient servant , WILLIAM SEWARD . February 11 1868 To the House of Representatives The accompanying letter from General Grant , received since the transmission to the House of Representatives of my communication of this date , is submitted to the House as a part of the correspondence referred to in the resolution of the 10th instant . ANDREW JOHNSON . HEADQUARTERS ARMY OF THE UNITED STATES , Washington , C . , February 11 , 1868 . His Excellency JOHNSOPresident of the United States . SII have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your communication of the 10th instant , accompanied by statements of five Cabinet ministers of their recollection of what occurred in Cabinet meeting on the 14th of January . Without admitting anything in these statements where they differ from anything heretofore stated by me , I propose to notice only that portion of your communication wherein I am charged with insubordination . I think it will be plain to the reader of my letter of the 30th of January that I did not propose to disobey any legal order of the President distinctly given , but only gave an interpretation of what would be regarded as satisfactory evidence of the President s sanction to orders communicated by the Secretary of War . I will say here that your letter of the 10th instant contains the first intimation I have had that you did not accept that interpretation . Now for reasons for giving that interpretation . It was clear to me before my letter of January 30 was written that the person having more public business to transact with the Secretary of War than any other of the President s subordinates , was the only one who had been instructed to disregard the authority of Stanton where his authority was derived as agent of the President . On the 27th of January I received a letter from the Secretary of War copy herewith directing me to furnish escort to public treasure from the Rio Grande to New Orleans , etc . , at the request of the Secretary of the Treasury to him . I also send two other inclosures , showing recognition of Stanton as Secretary of War by both the Secretary of the . Treasury and the Postmaster General , in all of which cases the Secretary of War had to call upon me to make the orders requested or give the information desired , and where his authority to do so is derived , in my view , as agent of the President . With an order so clearly ambiguous as that of the President here referred to , it was my duty to inform the President of my interpretation of it and to abide by that interpretation until I received other orders . Disclaiming any intention , now or heretofore , of disobeying any legal order of the President distinctly communicated , I remain , very respectfully , your obedient servant , GRANGeneral . WAR DEPARTMENT , Washington City , January 27 , 1868 . General GRANT , Commanding Army United States . GENERAThe Secretary of the Treasury has requested this Department to afford Randall , special agent of the Treasury Department , such military aid as may be necessary to secure and forward for deposit from Brownsville , Tex . , to New Orleans public moneys in possession of custom house officers at Brownsville , and which are deemed insecure at that place . You will please give such directions as you may deem proper to the officer commanding at Brownsville to carry into effect the request of the Treasury Department , the instructions to be sent by telegraph to Galveston , to the care of Randall , special agent , who is at Galveston waiting telegraphic orders , there being no telegraphic communication with Brownsville , and the necessity for military protection to the public moneys represented as urgent . Please favor me with a copy of such instructions as you may give , in order that they may be communicated to the Secretary of the Treasury . Yours , truly , EDWIN STANTON , Secretary of War . POST OFFICE DEPARTMENCONTRACT OFFICE , Washington , February 3 , 1868 . The Honorable the SECRETARY OF WAR . SIIt has been represented to this Department that in October last a military commission was appointed to settle upon some general plan of defense for the Texas frontiers , and that the said commission has made a report recommending a line of posts from the Rio Grande to the Red River . An application is now pending in this Department for a change in the course of the San Antonio and El Paso mail , so as to send it by way of Forts Mason , Griffin , and Stockton instead of Camps Hudson and Lancaster . This application requires immediate decision , but before final action can be had thereon it is desired to have some official information as to the report of the commission above referred to . Accordingly , I have the honor to request that you will cause this Department to be furnished as early as possible with the information desired in the premises , and also with a copy of the report , if any has been made by the commission . Very respectfully , etc . , GEORGMcLELLAN , Second Assistant Postmaster General . FEBRUARY 3 , 1868 . Referred to the General of the Army for report . EDWIN STANTON , Secretary of War . TREASURY DEPARTMENJanuary , 29 1868 . The Honorable SECRETARY OF WAR . SIIt is represented to this Department that a band of robbers has obtained such a foothold in the section of country between Humboldt and Lawrence , Kans . , committing depredations upon travelers , both by public and private conveyance , that the safety of the public money collected by the receiver of the land office at Humboldt requires that it should be guarded during its transit from Humboldt to Lawrence . I have therefore the honor to request that the proper commanding officer of the district may be instructed by the War Department , if in the opinion of the honorable Secretary of War it can be done without prejudice to the public interests , to furnish a sufficient military guard to protect such moneys as may be in transitu from the above office for the purpose of being deposited to the credit of the Treasurer of the United States . As far as we are now advised , such service will not be necessary oftener than once a month . Will you please advise me of the action taken , that I may instruct the receiver and the Commissioner of the General Land Office in the matter Very respectfully , your obedient servant , McCULLOCH , Secretary of the Treasury . Respectfully referred to the General of the Army to give the necessary orders in this case and to furnish this Department a copy for the information of the Secretary of the Treasury . By order of the Secretary of War ESCHRIVER , Inspector General .<speech_sep>