President,  Ford,  Vice President,  Vice President-to-be, the distinguished guests here, you ladies and gentlemen.
I was going to say fellow Republicans here but those who are watching from a distance, all those millions of Democrats and independents who I know are looking for a cause around which to rally and which I believe we can give them.
President, before you arrive tonight, these wonderful people, here, when we came in, gave Nancy and myself a welcome.
That, plus this, plus your kindness and generosity in honoring us by bringing us down here will give us a memory that will live in our hearts forever.
Watching on television these last few nights I have seen also the warmth with which you greeted Nancy and you also filled my heart with joy when you did that.
May I say some words.
There are cynics who say that a party platform is something that no one bothers to read and is does not very often amount to much.
Whether it is different this time than is has ever been before, I believe the Republican party has a platform that is a banner of bold, unmistakable colors with no pale pastel shades.
We have just heard a call to arms, based on that platform.
And a call to us to really be successful in communicating and reveal to the American people the difference between this platform and the platform of the opposing party which is nothing but a revamp and a reissue and a rerunning of a late, late show of the thing that we have been hearing from them for the last 40 years.
If I could just take a moment, I had an assignment the other day.
Someone asked me to write a letter for a time capsule that is going to opened in Los Angeles a hundred years from now, on our Tricentennial.
It sounded like an easy assignment.
They suggested I write about the problems and issues of the day.
And I set out to do so, riding down the coast in an automobile, looking at the blue Pacific out on one side and the Santa Ynez Mountains on the other, and I could not help but wonder if it was going to be that beautiful a hundred years from now as it was on that summer day.
And then as I tried to write-let your own minds turn to that task.
You're going to write for people a hundred years from now who know all about us, we know nothing about them.
We do not know what kind of world they will be living in.
And suddenly I thought to myself, If I write of the problems, they will be the domestic problems of which the President spoke here tonight; the challenges confronting us, the erosion of freedom taken place under Democratic rule in this country, the invasion of private rights, the controls and restrictions on the vitality of the great free economy that we enjoy.
These are the challenges that we must meet and then again there is that challenge of which he spoke that we live in a world in which the great powers have aimed and poised at each other horrible missiles of destruction, nuclear weapons that can in a matter of minutes arrive at each other's country and destroy virtually the civilized world we live in.
And suddenly it dawned on me; those who would read this letter a hundred years from now will know whether those missiles were fired.
They will know whether we met our challenge.
Whether they will have the freedom that we have known up until now will depend on what we do here.
Will they look back with appreciation and say, Thank God for those people in 1976 who headed off that loss of freedom? Who kept us now a hundred years later free? Who kept our world from nuclear destruction?And if we fail they probably will not get to read the letter at all because it spoke of individual freedom and they will not be allowed to talk of that or read of it.
This is our challenge and this is why we are here in this hall tonight.
Better than we have ever done before, we have got to quit talking to each other and about each other and go out and communicate to the world that we may be fewer in numbers than we have ever been but we carry the message they are waiting for.
We must go forth from here united, determined and what a great general said a few years ago is true: There is no substitute for victory.
President.
Good evening.
I am here tonight to announce my intention to seek the Republican nomination for President of the United States.
I am sure that each of us has seen our country from a number of viewpoints depending on where we have lived and what we have done.
For me it has been as a boy growing up in several small towns in Illinois.
As a young man in Iowa trying to get a start in the years of the great depression and later in California for most of my adult life.
I have seen America from the stadium press box as a sportscaster, as an actor, officer of my labor union, soldier, officeholder and as both Democrat and Republican.
I have lived in an America where those who often had too little to eat outnumbered those who had enough.
There have been four wars in my lifetime and I have seen our country face financial ruin in depression.
I have also seen the great strength of this nation as it pulled itself up from that ruin to become the dominant force in the world.
To me our country is a living, breathing presence, unimpressed by what others say is impossible, proud of its own success, generous, yes and na&iuml;ve, sometimes wrong, never mean and always impatient to provide a better life for its people in a framework of a basic fairness and freedom.
Someone once said that the difference between an American and any other kind of person is that an American lives in anticipation of the future because he knows it will be a great place.
Other people fear the future as just a repetition of past failures.
There's a lot of truth in that.
If there is one thing we are sure of it is that history need not be relived; that nothing is impossible, and that man is capable of improving his circumstances beyond what we are told is fact.
There are those in our land today, however, who would have us believe that the United States, like other great civilizations of the past, has reached the zenith of its power; that we are weak and fearful, reduced to bickering with each other and no longer possessed of the will to cope with our problems.
Much of this talk has come from leaders who claim that our problems are too difficult to handle.
We are supposed to meekly accept their failures as the most which humanly can be done.
They tell us we must learn to live with less, and teach our children that their lives will be less full and prosperous than ours have been; that the America of the coming years will be a place where  because of our past excesses  it will be impossible to dream and make those dreams come true.
I do not believe that.
And, I do not believe you do either.
That is why I am seeking the presidency.
I cannot and will not stand by and see this great country destroy itself.
Our leaders attempt to blame their failures on circumstances beyond their control, on false estimates by unknown, unidentifiable experts who rewrite modern history in an attempt to convince us our high standard of living, the result of thrift and hard work, is somehow selfish extravagance which we must renounce as we join in sharing scarcity.
I do not agree that our nation must resign itself to inevitable decline, yielding its proud position to other hands.
I am totally unwilling to see this country fail in its obligation to itself and to the other free peoples of the world.
The crisis we face is not the result of any failure of the American spirit; it is a failure of our leaders to establish rational goals and give our people something to order their lives by.
If I am elected, I shall regard my election as proof that the people of the United States have decided to set a new agenda and have recognized that the human spirit thrives best when goals are set and progress can be measured in their achievement.
During the next year I shall discuss in detail a wide variety of problems which a new administration must address.
Tonight I shall mention only a few.
No problem that we face today can compare with the need to restore the health of the American economy and the strength of the American dollar.
Double-digit inflation has robbed you and your family of the ability to plan.
It has destroyed the confidence to buy and it threatens the very structure of family life itself as more and more wives are forced to work in order to help meet the ever-increasing cost of living.
At the same time, the lack of year growth in the economy has introduced the justifiable fear in the minds of working men and women who are already over extended that soon there will be fewer jobs and no money to pay for even the necessities of life.
And tragically as the cost of living keeps going up, the standard of living which has been our great pride keeps going down.
The people have not created this disaster in our economy; the federal government has.
It has overspent, overestimated, and over regulated.
It has failed to deliver services within the revenues it should be allowed to raise from taxes.
In the thirty-four years since the end of World War II, it has spent 448 billion dollars more than it has collection in taxes  448 billion dollars of printing press money, which has made every dollar you earn worth less and less.
At the same time, the federal government has cynically told us that high taxes on business will in some way solve the problem and allow the average taxpayer to pay less.
Well, business is not a taxpayer, it is a tax collector.
Business has to pass its tax burden on to the customer as part of the cost of doing business.
You and I pay the taxes imposed on business every time we go to the store.
Only people pay taxes and it is political demagoguery or economic illiteracy to try and tell us otherwise.
The key to restoring the health of the economy lies in cutting taxes.
At the same time, we need to get the waste out of federal spending.
This does not mean sacrificing essential services, nor do we need to destroy the system of benefits which flow to the poor, the elderly, the sick and the handicapped.
We have long since committed ourselves, as a people, to help those among us who cannot take care of themselves.
But the federal government has proven to be the costliest and most inefficient provider of such help we could possibly have.
We must put an end to the arrogance of a federal establishment which accepts no blame for our condition, cannot be relied upon to give us a fair estimate of our situation and utterly refuses to live within its means.
I will not accept the supposed wisdom which has it that the federal bureaucracy has become so powerful that it can no longer be changed or controlled by any administration.
As President I would use every power at my command to make the federal establishment respond to the will and the collective wishes of the people.
We must force the entire federal bureaucracy to live in the real world of reduced spending, streamlined functions and accountability to the people it serves.
We must review the functions of the federal government to determine which of those are the proper province of levels of government closer to the people.
The 10th article of the Bill of Rights is explicit in pointing out that the federal government should do only those things specifically called for in the Constitution.
All others shall remain with the states or the people.
We have not been observing that 10th article of late.
The federal government has taken on functions it was never intended to perform and which it does not perform well.
There should be a planned, orderly transfer of such functions to states and communities and a transfer with them of the sources of taxation to pay for them.
The savings in administrative would be considerable and certainly there would be increased efficiency and less bureaucracy.
By reducing federal tax rates where they discourage individual initiative  especially personal income tax rates  we can restore incentives, invite greater economic growth and at the same time help give us better government instead of bigger government.
Proposals such as the Kemp-Roth bill would bring about this kind of realistic reductions in tax rates.
In short, a punitive tax system must be replaced by one that restores incentive for the worker and for industry; a system that rewards initiative and effort and encourages thrift.
All these things are possible; none of them will be easy.
But the choice is clear.
We can go on letting the country slip over the brink to financial ruin with the disaster that it means for the individual or we can find the will to work together to restore confidence in ourselves and to regain the confidence of the world.
I have lived through one depression.
I carry with me the memory of a Christmas Eve when my brother and I and our parents exchanged modest gifts  there was no lighted tree as there had been on Christmases past.
I remember watching my father open what he thought was a greeting from his employer.
We all watched and yes, we were hoping for a bonus check.
It was notice that he no longer had a job.
And in those days the government ran radio announcements telling workers not to leave home looking for jobs  there were no jobs.
I will carry with me always the memory of my father sitting there holding that envelope, unable to look at us.
I cannot and will not stand by while inflation and joblessness destroy the dignity of our people.
Another serious problem which must be discussed tonight is our energy situation.
Our country was built on cheap energy.
Today, energy is not cheap and we face the prospect that some forms of energy may soon not be available at all.
Last summer you probably spent hours sitting in gasoline lines.
This winter, some will be without heat and everyone will be paying much more simply to keep home and family warm.
If you ever had any doubt of the government's inability to provide for the needs of the people, just look at the utter fiasco we now call the energy crisis.
Not one straight answer nor any realistic hope of relief has come from the present administration in almost three years of federal treatment of the problem.
As gas lines grew, the administration again panicked and now has proposed to put the country on a wartime footing; but for this war there is no victory in sight.
And, as always, when the federal bureaucracy fails, all it can suggest is more of the same.
This time it is another bureau to untangle the mess made by the ones we already have.
But, this just will not work.
Solving the energy crisis will not be easy, but it can be done.
First we must decide that less is not enough.
Next we must remove government obstacles to energy production.
And, we must make use of those technological advantages we still possess.
It is no program simply to say use less energy.
Of course waste must be eliminated and efficiency promoted, but not an energy policy.
At best it means we will run out of energy a little more slowly.
But a day will come when the lights will dim and the wheels of industry will turn more slowly and finally stop.
As President I will not endorse any course which has this as its principle objective.
We need more energy and that means diversifying our sources of supply away from the OPEC countries.
Yes, it means more efficient automobiles.
But it also means more exploration and development of oil and natural gas here in our own country.
The only way to free ourselves from the monopoly pricing power of OPEC is to be less dependent on outside sources of fuel.
The answer obvious to anyone except those in the administration, it seems, is more domestic production of oil and gas.
We must also have wider use of nuclear power within strict safety rules, of course.
There must be more spending by the energy industries on research and development of substitutes for fossil fuels.
In years to come solar energy may provide much of the answer but for the next two or three decades we must do such things as master the chemistry of coal.
Putting the market system to work for these objectives is an essential first step for their achievement.
Additional multi-billion dollar federal bureaus and programs are not the answer.
In recent weeks there has been much talk about excess oil company profits.
I do not believe we have been given all the information we need to make a judgement about this.
We should have that information.
Government exists to protect us from each other.
It is not government's function to allocate fuel or impose unnecessary restrictions on the marketplace.
It is government's function to determine whether we are being unfairly exploited and if so to take immediate and appropriate action.
As President I would do exactly that.
On the foreign front, the decade of the 1980's will place severe pressures upon the United States and its allies.
We can expect to be tested in ways calculated to try our patience, to confound our resolve and to erode our belief in ourselves.
During a time when the Soviet Union may enjoy nuclear superiority over this country, we must never waiver in our commitment to our allies nor accept any negotiation which is not clearly in the national interest.
We must judge carefully.
Though we should leave no initiative untried in our pursuit of peace, we must be clear voiced in our resolve to resist any unpeaceful act wherever it may occur.
Negotiations with the Soviet Union must never become appeasement.
For the most of the last forty years, we have been preoccupied with the global struggle  the competition  with the Soviet Union and with our responsibilities to our allies.
But too often in recent times we have just drifted along with events, responding as if we thought of ourselves as a nation in decline.
To our allies we seem to appear to be a nation unable to make decisions in its own interests, let alone in the common interest.
Since the Second World War we have spent large amounts of money and much of our time protecting and defending freedom all over the world.
We must continue this, for if we do not accept the responsibilities of leadership, who will? And if no one will, how will we survive?The 1970's have taught us the foolhardiness of not having a long-range diplomatic strategy of our own.
The world has become a place where, in order to survive, our country needs more than just allies  it needs real friends.
Yet, in recent times we often seem not to have recognized who our friends are.
This must change.
It is now time to take stock of our own house and to resupply its strength.
Part of that process involves taking stock of our relationship with Puerto Rico.
I favor statehood for Puerto Rico and if the people of Puerto Rico vote for statehood in their coming referendum I would, as President, initiate the enabling legislation to make this a reality.
We live on a continent whose three countries possess the assets to make it the strongest, most prosperous and self-sufficient area on earth.
Within the borders of this North American continent are the food, resources, technology and undeveloped territory which, properly managed, could dramatically improve the quality of life of all its inhabitants.
It is no accident that this unmatched potential for progress and prosperity exists in three countries with such long-standing heritages of free government.
A developing closeness among Canada, Mexico and the United States  a North American accord  would permit achievement of that potential in each country beyond that which I believe any of them  strong as they are  could accomplish in the absence of such cooperation.
In fact, the key to our own future security may lie in both Mexico and Canada becoming much stronger countries than they are today.
No one can say at this point what form future cooperation among our three countries will take.
But if I am elected President, I would be willing to invite each of our neighbors to send a special representative to our government to sit in on high level planning sessions with us, as partners, mutually concerned about the future of our Continent.
First, I would immediately seek the views and ideas of Canadian and Mexican leaders on this issue, and work tirelessly with them to develop closer ties among our peoples.
It is time we stopped thinking of our nearest neighbors as foreigners.
By developing methods of working closely together, we will lay the foundations for future cooperation on a broader and more significant scale.
We will also put to rest any doubts of those cynical enough to believe that the United States would seek to dominate any relationship among our three countries, or foolish enough to think that the governments and peoples of Canada and Mexico would ever permit such domination to occur.
I, for one, am confident that we can show the world by example that the nations of North America are ready, within the context of an unswerving commitment to freedom, to seek new forms of accommodation to meet a changing world.
A developing closeness between the United States, Canada and Mexico would serve notice on friend and foe alike that we were prepared for a long haul, looking outward again and confident our of future; that together we are going to create jobs, to generate new fortunes of wealth for many and provide a legacy for the children of each of our countries.
Two hundred years ago we taught the world that a new form of government, created out of the genius of man to cope with his circumstances, could succeed in bringing a measure of quality to human life previously thought impossible.
Now let us work toward the goal of using the assets of this continent, its resources, technology and foodstuffs in the most efficient ways possible for the common good of all its people.
It may take the next 100 years but we can dare to dream that at some future date a map of the world might show the North American continent as one in which the peoples and commerce of its three strong countries flow more freely across their present borders than they do today.
In recent months leaders in our government have told us that, we, the people, have lost confidence in ourselves; that we must regain the spirit and our will to achieve our national goals.
Well, it is true there is a lack of confidence, an unease with things the way they are.
But the confidence we have lost is confidence in our government's policies.
Our unease can almost be called bewilderment at how our defense strength has deteriorated.
The great productivity of our industry is now surpassed by virtually all the major nations who compete with us for world markets.
And, our currency is no longer the stable measure of value it once was.
But there remains the greatness of our people, our capacity for dreaming up fantastic deeds and bringing them off to the surprise of an unbelieving world.
When Washington's men were freezing at Valley Forge, Tom Paine told his fellow Americans: We have it in our power to begin the world over again.
We still have that power.
We  today's living Americans  have in our lifetime fought harder, paid a higher price for freedom and done more to advance the dignity of man than any people who ever lived on this earth.
The citizens of this great nation want leadership  yes  but not a man on a white horse demanding obedience to his commands.
They want someone who believes they can begin the world over again.
A leader who will unleash their great strength and remove the roadblocks government has put in their way.
I want to do that more than anything I have ever wanted.
And it is something that I believe with God's help I can do.
I believe this nation hungers for a spiritual revival; hungers to once again see honor placed above political expediency; to see government once again the protector of our liberties, not the distributor of gifts and privilege.
Government should uphold and not undermine those institutions which are custodians of the very values upon which civilization is founded  religion, education and, above all, family.
Government cannot be clergyman, teacher and parent.
It is our servant, beholden to us.
We who are privileged to be Americans have had a rendezvous with destiny since the moment in 1630 when John Winthrop, standing on the deck of the tiny Arbella off the coast of Massachusetts, told the little band of pilgrims, We shall be as a city upon a hill.
The eyes of all people are upon us so that if we shall deal falsely with our God in this work we have undertaken and so cause Him to withdraw His present help from us, we shall be made a story and a byword throughout the world.
A troubled and afflicted mankind looks to us, pleading for us to keep our rendezvous with destiny; that we will uphold the principles of self-reliance, self-discipline, morality, and  above all  responsible liberty for every individual that we will become that shining city on a hill.
I believe that you and I together can keep this rendezvous with destiny.
Thank you and good night.
Chairman,  Vice President to be, this convention, my fellow citizens of this great nation:With a deep awareness of the responsibility conferred by your trust, I accept your nomination for the presidency of the United States.
I do so with deep gratitude, and I think also I might interject on behalf of all of us, our thanks to Detroit and the people of Michigan and to this city for the warm hospitality they have shown.
And I thank you for your wholehearted response to my recommendation in regard to George Bush as a candidate for vice president.
I am very proud of our party tonight.
This convention has shown to all America a party united, with positive programs for solving the nation's problems; a party ready to build a new consensus with all those across the land who share a community of values embodied in these words: family, work, neighborhood, peace and freedom.
I know we have had a quarrel or two, but only as to the method of attaining a goal.
There was no argument about the goal.
As president, I will establish a liaison with the 50 governors to encourage them to eliminate, where it exists, discrimination against women.
I will monitor federal laws to insure their implementation and to add statutes if they are needed.
More than anything else, I want my candidacy to unify our country; to renew the American spirit and sense of purpose.
I want to carry our message to every American, regardless of party affiliation, who is a member of this community of shared values.
Never before in our history have Americans been called upon to face three grave threats to our very existence, any one of which could destroy us.
We face a disintegrating economy, a weakened defense and an energy policy based on the sharing of scarcity.
The major issue of this campaign is the direct political, personal and moral responsibility of Democratic Party leadership i n the White House and in Congress  for this unprecedented calamity which has befallen us.
They tell us they have done the most that humanly could be done.
They say that the United States has had its day in the sun; that our nation has passed its zenith.
They expect you to tell your children that the American people no longer have the will to cope with their problems; that the future will be one of sacrifice and few opportunities.
My fellow citizens, I utterly reject that view.
The American people, the most generous on earth, who created the highest standard of living, are not going to accept the notion that we can only make a better world for others by moving backwards ourselves.
Those who believe we can have no business leading the nation.
I will not stand by and watch this great country destroy itself under mediocre leadership that drifts from one crisis to the next, eroding our national will and purpose.
We have come together here because the American people deserve better from those to whom they entrust our nation's highest offices, and we stand united in our resolve to do something about it.
We need rebirth of the American tradition of leadership at every level of government and in private life as well.
The United States of America is unique in world history because it has a genius for leaders  many leaders  on many levels.
But, back in 1976,  Carter said, Trust me.
And a lot of people did.
Now, many of those people are out of work.
Many have seen their savings eaten away by inflation.
Many others on fixed incomes, especially the elderly, have watched helplessly as the cruel tax of inflation wasted away their purchasing power.
And, today, a great many who trusted  Carter wonder if we can survive the Carter policies of national defense.
Trust me government asks that we concentrate our hopes and dreams on one man; that we trust him to do what is best for us.
My view of government places trust not in one person or one party, but in those values that transcend persons and parties.
The trust is where it belongsin the people.
The responsibility to live up to that trust is where it belongs, in their elected leaders.
That kind of relationship, between the people and their elected leaders, is a special kind of compact.
Three hundred and sixty years ago, in 1620, a group of families dared to cross a mighty ocean to build a future for themselves in a new world.
When they arrived at Plymouth, Massachusetts, they formed what they called a compact; an agreement among themselves to build a community and abide by its laws.
The single actthe voluntary binding together of free people to live under the lawset the pattern for what was to come.
A century and a half later, the descendants of those people pledged their lives, their fortunes and their sacred honor to found this nation.
Some forfeited their fortunes and their lives; none sacrificed honor.
Four score and seven years later, Abraham Lincoln called upon the people of all America to renew their dedication and their commitment to a government of, for and by the people.
Isn't it once again time to renew our compact of freedom; to pledge to each other all that is best in our lives; all that gives meaning to themfor the sake of this, our beloved and blessed land?Together, let us make this a new beginning.
Let us make a commitment to care for the needy; to teach our children the values and the virtues handed down to us by our families; to have the courage to defend those values and the willingness to sacrifice for them.
Let us pledge to restore, in our time, the American spirit of voluntary service, of cooperation, of private and community initiative; a spirit that flows like a deep and mighty river through the history of our nation.
As your nominee, I pledge to restore to the federal government the capacity to do the people's work without dominating their lives.
I pledge to you a government that will not only work well, but wisely; its ability to act tempered by prudence and its willingness to do good balanced by the knowledge that government is never more dangerous than when our desire to have it help us blinds us to its great power to harm us.
The first Republican president once said, While the people retain their virtue and their vigilance, no administration by any extreme of wickedness or folly can seriously injure the government in the short space of four years.
If  Lincoln could see what is happened in these last three-and-a-half years, he might hedge a little on that statement.
But, with the virtues that our legacy as a free people and with the vigilance that sustains liberty, we still have time to use our renewed compact to overcome the injuries that have been done to America these past three-and-a-half years.
First, we must overcome something the present administration has cooked up: a new and altogether indigestible economic stew, one part inflation, one part high unemployment, one part recession, one part runaway taxes, one party deficit spending and seasoned by an energy crisis.
It's an economic stew that has turned the national stomach.
Ours are not problems of abstract economic theory.
Those are problems of flesh and blood; problems that cause pain and destroy the moral fiber of real people who should not suffer the further indignity of being told by the government that it is all somehow their fault.
We do not have inflation because  as  Carter says  we have lived too well.
The head of a government which has utterly refused to live within its means and which has, in the last few days, told us that this year's deficit will be $60 billion, dares to point the finger of blame at business and labor, both of which have been engaged in a losing struggle just trying to stay even.
High taxes, we are told, are somehow good for us, as if, when government spends our money it is not inflationary, but when we spend it, it is.
Those who preside over the worst energy shortage in our history tell us to use less, so that we will run out of oil, gasoline, and natural gas a little more slowly.
Conservation is desirable, of course, for we must not waste energy.
But conservation is not the sole answer to our energy needs.
America must get to work producing more energy.
The Republican program for solving economic problems is based on growth and productivity.
Large amounts of oil and natural gas lay beneath our land and off our shores, untouched because the present administration seems to believe the American people would rather see more regulation, taxes and controls than more energy.
Coal offers great potential.
So does nuclear energy produced under rigorous safety standards.
It could supply electricity for thousands of industries and millions of jobs and homes.
It must not be thwarted by a tiny minority opposed to economic growth which often finds friendly ears in regulatory agencies for its obstructionist campaigns.
Make no mistake.
We will not permit the safety of our people or our environment heritage to be jeopardized, but we are going to reaffirm that the economic prosperity of our people is a fundamental part of our environment.
Our problems are both acute and chronic, yet all we hear from those in positions of leadership are the same tired proposals for more government tinkering, more meddling and more control  all of which led us to this state in the first place.
Can anyone look at the record of this administration and say, Well done? Can anyone compare the state of our economy when the Carter Administration took office with where we are today and say, Keep up the good work? Can anyone look at our reduced standing in the world today and say, Let's have four more years of this?I believe the American people are going to answer these questions the first week of November and their answer will be, Nowe have had enough.
And, then it will be up to us  beginning next January 20th  to offer an administration and congressional leadership of competence and more than a little courage.
We must have the clarity of vision to see the difference between what is essential and what is merely desirable, and then the courage to bring our government back under control and make it acceptable to the people.
It is essential that we maintain both the forward momentum of economic growth and the strength of the safety net beneath those in society who need help.
We also believe it is essential that the integrity of all aspects of Social Security are preserved.
Beyond these essentials, I believe it is clear our federal government is overgrown and overweight.
Indeed, it is time for our government to go on a diet.
Therefore, my first act as chief executive will be to impose an immediate and thorough freeze on federal hiring.
Then, we are going to enlist the very best minds from business, labor and whatever quarter to conduct a detailed review of every department, bureau and agency that lives by federal appropriations.
We are also going to enlist the help and ideas of many dedicated and hard working government employees at all levels who want a more efficient government as much as the rest of us do.
I know that many are demoralized by the confusion and waste they confront in their work as a result of failed and failing policies.
Our instructions to the groups we enlist will be simple and direct.
We will remind them that government programs exist at the sufferance of the American taxpayer and are paid for with money earned by working men and women.
Any program that represents a waste of their money  a theft from their pocketbooksmust have that waste eliminated or the program must go  by executive order where possible; by congressional action where necessary.
Everything that can be run more effectively by state and local government we shall turn over to state and local government, along with the funding sources to pay for it.
We are going to put an end to the money merry-go-round where our money becomes Washington's money, to be spent by the states and cities exactly the way the federal bureaucrats tell them to.
I will not accept the excuse that the federal government has grown so big and powerful that it is beyond the control of any president, any administration or Congress.
We are going to put an end to the notion that the American taxpayer exists to fund the federal government.
The federal government exists to serve the American people.
On January 20th, we are going to re-establish that truth.
Also on that date we are going to initiate action to get substantial relief for our taxpaying citizens and action to put people back to work.
None of this will be based on any new form of monetary tinkering or fiscal sleight-of-hand.
We will simply apply to government the common sense we all use in our daily lives.
Work and family are at the center of our lives; the foundation of our dignity as a free people.
When we deprive people of what they have earned, or take away their jobs, we destroy their dignity and undermine their families.
We cannot support our families unless there are jobs; and we cannot have jobs unless people have both money to invest and the faith to invest it.
There are concepts that stem from an economic system that for more than 200 years has helped us master a continent, create a previously undreamed of prosperity for our people and has fed millions of others around the globe.
That system will continue to serve us in the future if our government will stop ignoring the basic values on which it was built and stop betraying the trust and good will of the American workers who keep it going.
The American people are carrying the heaviest peacetime tax burden in our nation's history  and it will grow even heavier, under present law, next January.
We are taxing ourselves into economic exhaustion and stagnation, crushing our ability and incentive to save, invest and produce.
This must stop.
We must halt this fiscal self-destruction and restore sanity to our economic system.
I have long advocated a 30 percent reduction in income tax rates over a period of three years.
This phased tax reduction would begin with a 10 percent down payment tax cut in 1981, which the Republicans and Congress and I have already proposed.
A phased reduction of tax rates would go a long way toward easing the heavy burden on the American people.
But, we should not stop here.
Within the context of economic conditions and appropriate budget priorities during each fiscal year of my presidency, I would strive to go further.
This would include improvement in business depreciation taxes so we can stimulate investment in order to get plants and equipment replaced, put more Americans back to work and put our nation back on the road to being competitive in world commerce.
We will also work to reduce the cost of government as a percentage of our gross national product.
The first task of national leadership is to set honest and realistic priorities in our policies and our budget and I pledge that my administration will do that.
When I talk of tax cuts, I am reminded that every major tax cut in this century has strengthened the economy, generated renewed productivity and ended up yielding new revenues for the government by creating new investment, new jobs and more commerce among our people.
The present administration has been forced by us Republicans to play follow-the-leader with regard to a tax cut.
But, in this election year we must take with the proverbial grain of salt any tax cut proposed by those who have given us the greatest tax increase in our history.
When those in leadership give us tax increases and tell us we must also do with less, have they thought about those who have always had less  especially the minorities? This is like telling them that just as they step on the first rung of the ladder of opportunity, the ladder is being pulled out from under them.
That may be the Democratic leadership's message to the minorities, but it will not be ours.
Our message will be: we have to move ahead, but we are not going to leave anyone behind.
Thanks to the economic policies of the Democratic Party, millions of Americans find themselves out of work.
Millions more have never even had a fair chance to learn new skills, hold a decent job, or secure for themselves and their families a share in the prosperity of this nation.
It is time to put America back to work; to make our cities and towns resound with the confident voices of men and women of all races, nationalities and faiths bringing home to their families a decent paycheck they can cash for honest money.
For those without skills, we will find a way to help them get skills.
For those without job opportunities, we will stimulate new opportunities, particularly in the inner cities where they live.
For those who have abandoned hope, we will restore hope and we will welcome them into a great national crusade to make America great again!When we move from domestic affairs and cast our eyes abroad, we see an equally sorry chapter on the record of the present administration.
- As Soviet combat brigade trains in Cuba, just 90 miles from our shores.
- A Soviet army of invasion occupies Afghanistan, further threatening our vital interests in the Middle East.
- America's defense strength is at its lowest ebb in a generation, while the Soviet Union is vastly outspending us in both strategic and conventional arms.
- Our European allies, looking nervously at the growing menace from the East, turn to us for leadership and fail to find it.
- And, incredibly more than 50 of our fellow Americans have been held captive for over eight months by a dictatorial foreign power that holds us up to ridicule before the world.
Adversaries large and small test our will and seek to confound our resolve, but we are given weakness when we need strength; vacillation when the times demand firmness.
The Carter Administration lives in the world of make-believe.
Every day, drawing up a response to that day's problems, troubles, regardless of what happened yesterday and what will happen tomorrow.
The rest of us, however, live in the real world.
It is here that disasters are overtaking our nation without any real response from Washington.
This is make-believe, self-deceit and  above all  transparent hypocrisy.
For example,  Carter says he supports the volunteer army, but he lets military pay and benefits slip so low that many of our enlisted personnel are actually eligible for food stamps.
Re-enlistment rates drop and, just recently, after he fought all week against a proposal to increase the pay of our men and women in uniform, he helicoptered to our carrier, the U.
SS Nimitz, which was returning from long months of duty.
He told the crew that he advocated better pay for them and their comrades! Where does he really stand, now that he is back on shore?I will tell you where I stand.
I do not favor a peacetime draft or registration, but I do favor pay and benefit levels that will attract and keep highly motivated men and women in our volunteer forces and an active reserve trained and ready for an instant call in case of an emergency.
There may be a sailor at the helm of the ship of state, but the ship has no rudder.
Critical decisions are made at times almost in comic fashion, but who can laugh? Who was not embarrassed when the administration handed a major propaganda victory in the United Nations to the enemies of Israel, our staunch Middle East ally for three decades, and them claim that the American vote was a mistake, the result of a failure of communication between the president, his secretary of state, and his U.
N.
ambassador?Who does not feel a growing sense of unease as our allies, facing repeated instances of an amateurish and confused administration, reluctantly conclude that America is unwilling or unable to fulfill its obligations as the leader of the free world?Who does not feel rising alarm when the question in any discussion of foreign policy is no longer, Should we do something?, but Do we have the capacity to do anything?The administration which has brought us to this state is seeking your endorsement for four more years of weakness, indecision, mediocrity and incompetence.
No American should vote until he or she has asked, is the United States stronger and more respected now than it was three-and-a-half years ago? Is the world today a safer place in which to live?It is the responsibility of the president of the United States, in working for peace, to insure that the safety of our people cannot successfully be threatened by a hostile foreign power.
As president, fulfilling that responsibility will be my number one priority.
We are not a warlike people.
Quite the opposite.
We always seek to live in peace.
We resort to force infrequently and with great reluctanceand only after we have determined that it is absolutely necessary.
We are awedand rightly soby the forces of destruction at loose in the world in this nuclear era.
But neither can we be naive or foolish.
Four times in my lifetime America has gone to war, bleeding the lives of its young men into the sands of beachheads, the fields of Europe and the jungles and rice paddies of Asia.
We know only too well that war comes not when the forces of freedom are strong, but when they are weak.
It is then that tyrants are tempted.
We simply cannot learn these lessons the hard way again without risking our destruction.
Of all the objectives we seek, first and foremost is the establishment of lasting world peace.
We must always stand ready to negotiate in good faith, ready to pursue any reasonable avenue that holds forth the promise of lessening tensions and furthering the prospects of peace.
But let our friends and those who may wish us ill take note: the United States has an obligation to its citizens and to the people of the world never to let those who would destroy freedom dictate the future course of human life on this planet.
I would regard my election as proof that we have renewed our resolve to preserve world peace and freedom.
This nation will once again be strong enough to do that.
This evening marks the last stepsave oneof a campaign that has taken Nancy and me from one end of this great land to the other, over many months and thousands of miles.
There are those who question the way we choose a president; who say that our process imposes difficult and exhausting burdens on those who seek the office.
I have not found it so.
It is impossible to capture in words the splendor of this vast continent which God has granted as our portion of this creation.
There are no words to express the extraordinary strength and character of this breed of people we call Americans.
Everywhere we have met thousands of Democrats, Independents, and Republicans from all economic conditions and walks of life bound together in that community of shared values of family, work, neighborhood, peace and freedom.
They are concerned, yes, but they are not frightened.
They are disturbed, but not dismayed.
They are the kind of men and women Tom Paine had in mind when he wroteduring the darkest days of the American RevolutionWe have it in our power to begin the world over again.
Nearly 150 years after Tom Paine wrote those words, an American president told the generation of the Great Depression that it had a rendezvous with destiny.
I believe that this generation of Americans today has a rendezvous with destiny.
Tonight, let us dedicate ourselves to renewing the American compact.
I ask you not simply to Trust me, but to trust your valuesour valuesand to hold me responsible for living up to them.
I ask you to trust that American spirit which knows no ethnic, religious, social, political, regional, or economic boundaries; the spirit that burned with zeal in the hearts of millions of immigrants from every corner of the Earth who came here in search of freedom.
Some say that spirit no longer exists.
But I have seen it  I have felt it  all across the land; in the big cities, the small towns and in rural America.
The American spirit is still there, ready to blaze into life if you and I are willing to do what has to be done; the practical, down-to-earth things that will stimulate our economy, increase productivity and put America back to work.
The time is now to resolve that the basis of a firm and principled foreign policy is one that takes the world as it is and seeks to change it by leadership and example; not by harangue, harassment or wishful thinking.
The time is now to say that while we shall seek new friendships and expand and improve others, we shall not do so by breaking our word or casting aside old friends and allies.
And, the time is now to redeem promises once made to the American people by another candidate, in another time and another place.
He said, For three long years I have been going up and down this country preaching that governmentfederal, state, and localcosts too much.
I shall not stop that preaching.
As an immediate program of action, we must abolish useless offices.
We must eliminate unnecessary functions of government.
we must consolidate subdivisions of government and, like the private citizen, give up luxuries which we can no longer afford.
I propose to you, my friends, and through you that government of all kinds, big and little be made solvent and that the example be set by the president of the United State and his Cabinet.
So said Franklin Delano Roosevelt in his acceptance speech to the Democratic National Convention in July 1932.
The time is now, my fellow Americans, to recapture our destiny, to take it into our own hands.
But, to do this will take many of us, working together.
I ask you tonight to volunteer your help in this cause so we can carry our message throughout the land.
Yes, is not now the time that we, the people, carried out these unkempt promises? Let us pledge to each other and to all America on this July day 48 years later, we intend to do just that.
I have thought of something that is not part of my speech and I am worried over whether I should do it.
Can we doubt that only a Divine Providence placed this land, this island of freedom, here as a refuge for all those people in the world who yearn to breathe freely: Jews and Christians enduring persecution behind the Iron Curtain, the boat people of Southeast Asia, of Cuba and Haiti, the victims of drought and famine in Africa, the freedom fighters of Afghanistan and our own countrymen held in savage captivity.
I will confess that I have been a little afraid to suggest what I am going to suggest  I am more afraid not to  that we begin our crusade joined together in a moment of silent prayer.
God bless America.
Senator Hatfield,  Chief Justice,  President, Vice President Bush, Vice President Mondale, Senator Baker, Speaker O'Neill, Reverend Moomaw, and my fellow citizens:To a few of us here today this is a solemn and most momentous occasion, and yet in the history of our nation it is a commonplace occurrence.
The orderly transfer of authority as called for in the Constitution routinely takes place, as it has for almost two centuries, and few of us stop to think how unique we really are.
In the eyes of ma in the world, this every-4-year ceremony we accept as normal is nothing less than a miracle.
President, I want our fellow citizens to know how much you did to carry on this tradition.
By your gracious cooperation in the transition process, you have shown a watching world that we are a united people pledged to maintaining a political system which guarantees individual liberty to a greater degree than any other, and I thank you and your people for all your help in maintaining the continuity which is the bulwark of our Republic.
The business of our nation goes forward.
These United States are confronted with an economic affliction of great proportions.
We suffer from the longest and one of the worst sustained inflations in our national history.
It distorts our economic decisions, penalizes thrift, and crushes the struggling young and the fixed-income elderly alike.
It threatens to shatter the lives of millions of our people.
Idle industries have cast workers into unemployment, human misery, and personal indignity.
Those who do work are denied a fair return for their labor by a tax system which penalizes successful achievement and keeps us from maintaining full productivity.
But great as our tax burden is, it has not kept pace with public spending.
For decades we have piled deficit upon deficit, mortgaging our future and our children's future for the temporary convenience of the present.
To continue this long trend is to guarantee tremendous social, cultural, political, and economic upheavals.
You and I, as individuals, can, by borrowing, live beyond our means, but for only a limited period of time.
Why, then, should we think that collectively, as a nation, we are not bound by that same limitation? We must act today in order to preserve tomorrow.
And let there be no misunderstanding: We are going to begin to act, beginning today.
The economic ills we suffer have come upon us over several decades.
They will not go away in days, weeks, or months, but they will go away.
They will go away because we as Americans have the capacity now, as we have had in the past, to do whatever needs to be done to preserve this last and greatest bastion of freedom.
In this present crisis, government is not the solution to our problem; government is the problem.
From time to time we have been tempted to believe that society has become too complex to be managed by self-rule, that government by an elite group is superior to government for, by, and of the people.
Well, if no one among us is capable of governing himself, then who among us has the capacity to govern someone else? All of us together, in and out of government, must bear the burden.
The solutions we seek must be equitable, with no one group singled out to pay a higher price.
We hear much of special interest groups.
Well, our concern must be for a special interest group that has been too long neglected.
It knows no sectional boundaries or ethnic and racial divisions, and it crosses political party lines.
It is made up of men and women who raise our food, patrol our streets, man our mines and factories, teach our children, keep our homes, and heal us when we are sick  professionals, industrialists, shopkeepers, clerks, cabbies, and truckdrivers.
They are, in short, We the people, this breed called Americans.
Well, this administration's objective will be a healthy, vigorous, growing economy that provides equal opportunities for all Americans with no barriers born of bigotry or discrimination.
Putting America back to work means putting all Americans back to work.
Ending inflation means freeing all Americans from the terror of runaway living costs.
All must share in the productive work of this new beginning, and all must share in the bounty of a revived economy.
With the idealism and fair play which are the core of our system and our strength, we can have a strong and prosperous America, at peace with itself and the world.
So, as we begin, let us take inventory.
We are a nation that has a government  not the other way around.
And this makes us special among the nations of the Earth.
Our government has no power except that granted it by the people.
It is time to check and reverse the growth of government, which shows signs of having grown beyond the consent of the governed.
It is my intention to curb the size and influence of the Federal establishment and to demand recognition of the distinction between the powers granted to the Federal Government and those reserved to the States or to the people.
All of us need to be reminded that the Federal Government did not create the States; the States created the Federal Government.
Now, so there will be no misunderstanding, it is not my intention to do away with government.
It is rather to make it work  work with us, not over us; to stand by our side, not ride on our back.
Government can and must provide opportunity, not smother it; foster productivity, not stifle it.
If we look to the answer as to why for so many years we achieved so much, prospered as no other people on Earth, it was because here in this land we unleashed the energy and individual genius of man to a greater extent than has ever been done before.
Freedom and the dignity of the individual have been more available and assured here than in any other place on Earth.
The price for this freedom at times has been high, but we have never been unwilling to pay that price.
It is no coincidence that our present troubles parallel and are proportionate to the intervention and intrusion in our lives that result from unnecessary and excessive growth of government.
It is time for us to realize that we are too great a nation to limit ourselves to small dreams.
We're not, as some would have us believe, doomed to an inevitable decline.
I do not believe in a fate that will fall on us no matter what we do.
I do believe in a fate that will fall on us if we do nothing.
So, with all the creative energy at our command, let us begin an era of national renewal.
Let us renew our determination, our courage, and our strength.
And let us renew our faith and our hope.
We have every right to dream heroic dreams.
Those who say that we are in a time when there are not heroes, they just do not know where to look.
You can see heroes every day going in and out of factory gates.
Others, a handful in number, produce enough food to feed all of us and then the world beyond.
You meet heroes across a counter, and they are on both sides of that counter.
There are entrepreneurs with faith in themselves and faith in an idea who create new jobs, new wealth and opportunity.
They're individuals and families whose taxes support the government and whose voluntary gifts support church, charity, culture, art, and education.
Their patriotism is quiet, but deep.
Their values sustain our national life.
Now, I have used the words they and their in speaking of these heroes.
I could say you and your, because I am addressing the heroes of whom I speak  you, the citizens of this blessed land.
Your dreams, your hopes, your goals are going to be the dreams, the hopes, and the goals of this administration, so help me God.
We shall reflect the compassion that is so much a part of your makeup.
How can we love our country and not love our countrymen; and loving them, reach out a hand when they fall, heal them when they are sick, and provide opportunity to make them self-sufficient so they will be equal in fact and not just in theory?Can we solve the problems confronting us? Well, the answer is an unequivocal and emphatic yes.
To paraphrase Winston Churchill, I did not take the oath I have just taken with the intention of presiding over the dissolution of the world's strongest economy.
In the days ahead I will propose removing the roadblocks that have slowed our economy and reduced productivity.
Steps will be taken aimed at restoring the balance between the various levels of government.
Progress may be slow, measured in inches and feet, not miles, but we will progress.
It is time to reawaken this industrial giant, to get government back within its means, and to lighten our punitive tax burden.
And these will be our first priorities, and on these principles there will be no compromise.
On the eve of our struggle for independence a man who might have been one of the greatest among the Founding Fathers,  Joseph Warren, president of the Massachusetts Congress, said to his fellow Americans, Our country is in danger, but not to be despaired of.
On you depend the fortunes of America.
You are to decide the important questions upon which rests the happiness and the liberty of millions yet unborn.
Act worthy of yourselves.
Well, I believe we, the Americans of today, are ready to act worthy of ourselves, ready to do what must be done to ensure happiness and liberty for ourselves, our children, and our children's children.
And as we renew ourselves here in our own land, we will be seen as having greater strength throughout the world.
We will again be the exemplar of freedom and a beacon of hope for those who do not now have freedom.
To those neighbors and allies who share our freedom, we will strengthen our historic ties and assure them of our support and firm commitment.
We will match loyalty with loyalty.
We will strive for mutually beneficial relations.
We will not use our friendship to impose on their sovereignty, for our own sovereignty is not for sale.
As for the enemies of freedom, those who are potential adversaries, they will be reminded that peace is the highest aspiration of the American people.
We will negotiate for it, sacrifice for it; we will not surrender for it, now or ever.
Our forbearance should never be misunderstood.
Our reluctance for conflict should not be misjudged as a failure of will.
When action is required to preserve our national security, we will act.
We will maintain sufficient strength to prevail if need be, knowing that if we do so we have the best chance of never having to use that strength.
Above all, we must realize that no arsenal or no weapon in the arsenals of the world is so formidable as the will and moral courage of free men and women.
It is a weapon our adversaries in today's world do not have.
It is a weapon that we as Americans do have.
Let that be understood by those who practice terrorism and prey upon their neighbors.
I am told that tens of thousands of prayer meetings are being held on this day, and for that I am deeply grateful.
We are a nation under God, and I believe God intended for us to be free.
It would be fitting and good, I think, if on each Inaugural Day in future years it should be declared a day of prayer.
This is the first time in our history that this ceremony has been held, as you have been told, on this West Front of the Capitol.
Standing here, one faces a magnificent vista, opening up on this city's special beauty and history.
At the end of this open mall are those shrines to the giants on whose shoulders we stand.
Directly in front of me, the monument to a monumental man, George Washington, father of our country.
A man of humility who came to greatness reluctantly.
He led America out of revolutionary victory into infant nationhood.
Off to one side, the stately memorial to Thomas Jefferson.
The Declaration of Independence flames with his eloquence.
And then, beyond the Reflecting Pool, the dignified columns of the Lincoln Memorial.
Whoever would understand in his heart the meaning of America will find it in the life of Abraham Lincoln.
Beyond those monuments to heroism is the Potomac River, and on the far shore the sloping hills of Arlington National Cemetery, with its row upon row of simple white markers bearing crosses or Stars of David.
They add up to only a tiny fraction of the price that has been paid for our freedom.
Each one of those markers is a monument to the kind of hero I spoke of earlier.
Their lives ended in places called Belleau Wood, The Argonne, Omaha Beach, Salerno, and halfway around the world on Guadalcanal, Tarawa, Pork Chop Hill, the Chosin Reservoir, and in a hundred rice paddies and jungles of a place called Vietnam.
Under one such marker lies a young man, Martin Treptow, who left his job in a small town barbershop in 1917 to go to France with the famed Rainbow Division.
There, on the western front, he was killed trying to carry a message between battalions under heavy artillery fire.
We're told that on his body was found a diary.
On the flyleaf under the heading, My Pledge, he had written these words: America must win this war.
Therefore I will work, I will save, I will sacrifice, I will endure, I will fight cheerfully and do my utmost, as if the issue of the whole struggle depended on me alone.
The crisis we are facing today does not require of us the kind of sacrifice that Martin Treptow and so many thousands of others were called upon to make.
It does require, however, our best effort and our willingness to believe in ourselves and to believe in our capacity to perform great deeds, to believe that together with God's help we can and will resolve the problems which now confront us.
And after all, why should not we believe that? We are Americans.
God bless you, and thank you.
Speaker,  President, distinguished Members of the Congress, honored guests, and fellow citizens:I have no words to express my appreciation for that greeting.
I have come to speak to you tonight about our economic recovery program and why I believe it is essential that the Congress approve this package, which I believe will lift the crushing burden of inflation off of our citizens and restore the vitality to our economy and our industrial machine.
First, however, and due to events of the past few weeks, will you permit me to digress for a moment from the all-important subject of why we must bring government spending under control and reduce tax rates.
I had like to say a few words directly to all of you and to those who are watching and listening tonight, because this is the only way I know to express to all of you on behalf of Nancy and myself our appreciation for your messages and flowers and, most of all, your prayers, not only for me but for those others who fell beside me.
The warmth of your words, the expression of friendship and, yes, love, meant more to us than you can ever know.
You have given us a memory that we will treasure forever.
And you have provided an answer to those few voices that were raised saying that what happened was evidence that ours is a sick society.
The society we heard from is made up of millions of compassionate Americans and their children, from college age to kindergarten.
As a matter of fact, as evidence of that I have a letter with me.
The letter came from Peter Sweeney.
He's in the second grade in the Riverside School in Rockville Centre, and he said, I hope you get well quick or you might have to make a speech in your pajamas.
He added a postscript.
P.
S.
If you have to make a speech in your pajamas, I warned you.
Well, sick societies do not produce men like the two who recently returned from outer space.
Sick societies do not produce young men like Secret Service agent Tim McCarthy, who placed his body between mine and the man with the gun simply because he felt that is what his duty called for him to do.
Sick societies do not produce dedicated police officers like Tom Delahanty or able and devoted public servants like Jim Brady.
Sick societies do not make people like us so proud to be Americans and so very proud of our fellow citizens.
Now, let us talk about getting spending and inflation under control and cutting your tax rates.
Speaker and Senator Baker, I want to thank you for your cooperation in helping to arrange this joint session of the Congress.
I will not be speaking to you very long tonight, but I asked for this meeting because the urgency of our joint mission has not changed.
Thanks to some very fine people, my health is much improved.
I had like to be able to say that with regard to the health of the economy.
It's been half a year since the election that charged all of us in this Government with the task of restoring our economy.
Where have we come in this 6 months? Inflation, as measured by the Consumer Price Index, has continued at a double-digit rate.
Mortgage interest rates have averaged almost 15 percent for these 6 months, preventing families across America from buying homes.
There are still almost 8 million unemployed.
The average worker's hourly earnings after adjusting for inflation are lower today than they were 6 months ago, and there have been over 6,000 business failures.
Six months is long enough.
The American people now want us to act and not in half measures.
They demand and they have earned a full and comprehensive effort to clean up our economic mess.
Because of the extent of our economy's sickness, we know that the cure will not come quickly and that even with our package, progress will come in inches and feet, not in miles.
But to fail to act will delay even longer and more painfully the cure which must come.
And that cure begins with the Federal budget.
And the budgetary actions taken by the Congress over the next few days will determine how we respond to the message of last November 4th.
That message was very simple.
Our government is too big, and it spends too much.
For the last few months, you and I have enjoyed a relationship based on extraordinary cooperation.
Because of this cooperation we have come a long distance in less than 3 months.
I want to thank the leadership of the Congress for helping in setting a fair timetable for consideration of our recommendations.
And committee chairmen on both sides of the aisle have called prompt and thorough hearings.
We have also communicated in a spirit of candor, openness, and mutual respect.
Tonight, as our decision day nears and as the House of Representatives weighs its alternatives, I wish to address you in that same spirit.
The Senate Budget Committee, under the leadership of Pete Domenici, has just today voted out a budget resolution supported by Democrats and Republicans alike that is in all major respects consistent with the program that we have proposed.
Now we look forward to favorable action on the Senate floor, but an equally crucial test involves the House of Representatives.
The House will soon be choosing between two different versions or measures to deal with the economy.
One is the measure offered by the House Budget Committee.
The other is a bipartisan measure, a substitute introduced by Congressmen Phil Gramm of Texas and Del Latta of Ohio.
On behalf of the administration, let me say that we embrace and fully support that bipartisan substitute.
It will achieve all the essential aims of controlling government spending, reducing the tax burden, building a national defense second to none, and stimulating economic growth and creating millions of new jobs.
At the same time, however, I must state our opposition to the measure offered by the House Budget Committee.
It may appear that we have two alternatives.
In reality, however, there are no more alternatives left.
The committee measure quite simply falls far too short of the essential actions that we must take.
For example, in the next 3 years, the committee measure projects spending $141 billion more than does the bipartisan substitute.
It regrettably cuts over $14 billion in essential defense spending, funding required to restore America's national security.
It adheres to the failed policy of trying to balance the budget on the taxpayer's back.
It would increase tax payments by over a third, adding up to a staggering quarter of a trillion dollars.
Federal taxes would increase 12 percent each year.
Taxpayers would be paying a larger share of their income to government in 1984 than they do at present.
In short, that measure reflects an echo of the past rather than a benchmark for the future.
High taxes and excess spending growth created our present economic mess; more of the same will not cure the hardship, anxiety, and discouragement it has imposed on the American people.
Let us cut through the fog for a moment.
The answer to a government that is too big is to stop feeding its growth.
Government spending has been growing faster than the economy itself.
The massive national debt which we accumulated is the result of the government's high spending diet.
Well, it is time to change the diet and to change it in the right way.
I know the tax portion of our package is of concern to some of you.
Let me make a few points that I feel have been overlooked.
First of all, it should be looked at as an integral part of the entire package, not something separate and apart from the budget reductions, the regulatory relief, and the monetary restraints.
Probably the most common misconception is that we are proposing to reduce Government revenues to less than what the Government has been receiving.
This is not true.
Actually, the discussion has to do with how much of a tax increase should be imposed on the taxpayer in 1982.
Now, I know that over the recess in some informal polling some of your constituents have been asked which they had rather have, a balanced budget or a tax cut, and with the common sense that characterizes the people of this country, the answer, of course, has been a balanced budget.
But may I suggest, with no inference that there was wrong intent on the part of those who asked the question, the question was inappropriate to the situation.
Our choice is not between a balanced budget and a tax cut.
Properly asked, the question is, Do you want a great big raise in your taxes this coming year or, at the worst, a very little increase with the prospect of tax reduction and a balanced budget down the road a ways? With the common sense that the people have already shown, I am sure we all know what the answer to that question would be.
A gigantic tax increase has been built into the system.
We propose nothing more than a reduction of that increase.
The people have a right to know that even with our plan they will be paying more in taxes, but not as much more as they will without it.
The option, I believe, offered by the House Budget Committee, will leave spending too high and tax rates too high.
At the same time, I think it cuts the defense budget too much, and by attempting to reduce the deficit through higher taxes, it will not create the kind of strong economic growth and the new jobs that we must have.
Let us not overlook the fact that the small, independent business man or woman creates more than 80 percent of all the new jobs and employs more than half of our total work force.
Our across-the-board cut in tax rates for a 3-year period will give them much of the incentive and promise of stability they need to go forward with expansion plans calling for additional employees.
Tonight, I renew my call for us to work as a team, to join in cooperation so that we find answers which will begin to solve all our economic problems and not just some of them.
The economic recovery package that I have outlined to you over the past weeks is, I deeply believe, the only answer that we have left.
Reducing the growth of spending, cutting marginal tax rates, providing relief from overregulation, and following a noninflationary and predictable monetary policy are interwoven measures which will ensure that we have addressed each of the severe dislocations which threaten our economic future.
These policies will make our economy stronger, and the stronger economy will balance the budget which we are committed to do by 1984.
When I took the oath of office, I pledged loyalty to only one special interest group  We the people.
Those people  neighbors and friends, shopkeepers and laborers, farmers and craftsmen  do not have infinite patience.
As a matter fact, some 80 years ago, Teddy Roosevelt wrote these instructive words in his first message to the Congress: The American people are slow to wrath, but when their wrath is once kindled, it burns like a consuming flame.
Well, perhaps that kind of wrath will be deserved if our answer to these serious problems is to repeat the mistakes of the past.
The old and comfortable way is to shave a little here and add a little there.
Well, that is not acceptable anymore.
I think this great and historic Congress knows that way is no longer acceptable.
Thank you very much.
I think you have shown that you know the one sure way to continue the inflationary spiral is to fall back into the predictable patterns of old economic practices.
Isn't it time that we tried something new?When you allowed me to speak to you here in these chambers a little earlier, I told you that I wanted this program for economic recovery to be ours-yours and mine.
I think the bipartisan substitute bill has achieved that purpose.
It moves us toward economic vitality.
Justtwo weeks ago, you and I joined millions of our fellow Americans in marveling at the magic historical moment that John Young and Bob Crippen created in their space shuttle, Columbia.
The last manned effort was almost 6 years ago, and I remembered on this more recent day, over the years, how we had all come to expect technological precision of our men and machines.
And each amazing achievement became commonplace, until the next new challenge was raised.
With the space shuttle we tested our ingenuity once again, moving beyond the accomplishments of the past into the promise and uncertainty of the future.
Thus, we not only planned to send up a 122-foot aircraft 170 miles into space, but we also intended to make it maneuverable and return it to Earth, landing 98 tons of exotic metals delicately on a remote, dry lake-bed.
The space shuttle did more than prove our technological abilities.
It raised our expectations once more.
It started us dreaming again.
The poet Carl Sandburg wrote, The republic is a dream.
Nothing happens unless first a dream.
And that is what makes us, as Americans, different.
We've always reached for a new spirit and aimed at a higher goal.
We've been courageous and determined, unafraid and bold.
Who among us wants to be first to say we no longer have those qualities, that we must limp along, doing the same things that have brought us our present misery?I believe that the people you and I represent are ready to chart a new course.
They look to us to meet the great challenge, to reach beyond the commonplace and not fall short for lack of creativity or courage.
Someone you know has said that he who would have nothing to do with thorns must never attempt to gather flowers.
Well, we have much greatness before us.
We can restore our economic strength and build opportunities like none we have ever had before.
As Carl Sandburg said, all we need to begin with is a dream that we can do better than before.
All we need to have is faith, and that dream will come true.
All we need to do is act, and the time for action is now.
Thank you.
Good night.
Father Hesburgh, I thank you very much and for so many things.
The distinguished honor that you have conferred upon me here today, I must say, however, compounds a sense of guilt that I have nursed for almost 50 years.
I thought the first degree I was given was honorary.
But it is wonderful to be here today with Governor Orr, Governor Bowen, Senators Lugar and Quayle, and Representative Hiler, these distinguished honorees, the trustees, administration, faculty, students, and friends of Notre Dame and, most important, the graduating class of 1981.
Nancy and I are greatly honored to share this day with you, and our pleasure has been more than doubled because I am also sharing the platform with a longtime and very dear friend, Pat O'Brien.
Pat and I have not been able to see much of each other lately, so I have not had a chance to tell him that there is now another tie that binds us together.
Until a few weeks ago I knew very little about my father's ancestry.
He had been orphaned at age 6.
But now I have learned that his grandfather, my great-grandfather, left Ireland to come to America, leaving his home in Ballyporeen, a village in County Tipperary in Ireland, and I have learned that Ballyporeen is the ancestral home of the O'Briens.
Now, if I do not watch out, this may turn out to be less of a commencement than a warm bath in nostalgic memories.
Growing up in Illinois, I was influenced by a sports legend so national in scope, it was almost mystical.
It is difficult to explain to anyone who did not live in those times.
The legend was based on a combination of three elements: a game, football; a university, Notre Dame; and a man, Knute Rockne.
There has been nothing like it before or since.
My first time to ever see Notre Dame was to come here as a sports announcer, 2 years out of college, to broadcast a football game.
You won or I would not have mentioned it.
A number of years later I returned here in the company of Pat O'Brien and a galaxy of Hollywood stars for the world premiere of Knute Rockne  All American in which I was privileged to play George Gipp.
I have always suspected that there might have been many actors in Hollywood who could have played the part better, but no one could have wanted to play it more than I did.
And I was given the part largely because the star of that picture, Pat O'Brien, kindly and generously held out a helping hand to a beginning young actor.
Having come from the world of sports, I had been trying to write a story about Knute Rockne.
I must confess that I had someone in mind to play the Gipper.
On one of my sports broadcasts before going to Hollywood, I had told the story of his career and tragic death.
I did not have very many words on paper when I learned that the studio that employed me was already preparing a story treatment for that film.
And that brings me to the theme of my remarks.
I am the fifth President of the United States to address a Notre Dame commencement.
The temptation is great to use this forum as an address on a great international or national issue that has nothing to do with this occasion.
Indeed, this is somewhat traditional.
So, I was not surprised when I read in several reputable journals that I was going to deliver an address on foreign policy or on the economy.
I am not going to talk about either.
But, by the same token, I will try not to belabor you with some of the standard rhetoric that is beloved of graduation speakers.
For example, I am not going to tell you that You know more today that you have ever known before or that you will ever know again.
The other standby is, When I was 14, I did not think my father knew anything.
By the time I was 21, I was amazed at how much the old gentleman had learned in 7 years.
And then, of course, the traditional and the standby is that A university like this is a storehouse of knowledge because the freshmen bring so much in and the seniors take so little away.
You members of the graduating class of 18  or 1981  I do not really go back that far  are what behaviorists call achievers.
And while you will look back with warm pleasure on your memories of these years that brought you here to where you are today, you are also, I know, looking at the future that seems uncertain to most of you but which, let me assure you, offers great expectations.
Take pride in this day.
Thank your parents, as one on your behalf has already done here.
Thank those who have been of help to you over the last 4 years.
And do a little celebrating; you are entitled.
This is your day, and whatever I say should take cognizance of that fact.
It is a milestone in life, and it marks a time of change.
Winston Churchill, during the darkest period of the Battle of Britain in World War II said: When great causes are on the move in the world.
we learn we are spirits, not animals, and that something is going on in space and time, and beyond space and time, which, whether we like it or not, spells duty.
Now, I am going to mention again that movie that Pat and I and Notre Dame were in, because it says something about America.
First, Knute Rockne as a boy came to America with his parents from Norway.
And in the few years it took him to grow up to college age, he became so American that here at Notre Dame, he became an All American in a game that is still, to this day, uniquely American.
As a coach, he did more than teach young men how to play a game.
He believed truly that the noblest work of man was building the character of man.
And maybe that is why he was a living legend.
No man connected with football has ever achieved the stature or occupied the singular niche in the Nation that he carved out for himself, not just in a sport, but in our entire social structure.
Now, today I hear very often, Win one for the Gipper, spoken in a humorous vein.
Lately I have been hearing it by Congressmen who are supportive of the programs that I have introduced.
But let us look at the significance of that story.
Rockne could have used Gipp's dying words to win a game any time.
But 8 years went by following the death of George Gipp before Rock revealed those dying words, his deathbed wish.
And then he told the story at halftime to a team that was losing, and one of the only teams he had ever coached that was torn by dissension and jealousy and factionalism.
The seniors on that team were about to close out their football careers without learning or experiencing any of the real values that a game has to impart.
None of them had known George Gipp.
They were children when he played for Notre Dame.
It was to this team that Rockne told the story and so inspired them that they rose above their personal animosities.
For someone they had never known, they joined together in a common cause and attained the unattainable.
We were told when we were making the picture of one line that was spoken by a player during that game.
We were actually afraid to put it in the picture.
The man who carried the ball over for the winning touchdown was injured on the play.
We were told that as he was lifted on the stretcher and carried off the field he was heard to say, That's the last one I can get for you, Gipper.
Now, it is only a game.
And maybe to hear it now, afterward  and this is what we feared  it might sound maudlin and not the way it was intended.
But is there anything wrong with young people having an experience, feeling something so deeply, thinking of someone else to the point that they can give so completely of themselves? There will come times in the lives of all of us when we will be faced with causes bigger than ourselves, and they will not be on a playing field.
This Nation was born when a band of men, the Founding Fathers, a group so unique we have never seen their like since, rose to such selfless heights.
Lawyers, tradesmen, merchants, farmers  56 men achieved security and standing in life but valued freedom more.
They pledged their lives, their fortunes, and their sacred honor.
Sixteen of them gave their lives.
Most gave their fortunes.
All preserved their sacred honor.
They gave us more than a nation.
They brought to all mankind for the first time the concept that man was born free, that each of us has inalienable rights, ours by the grace of God, and that government was created by us for our convenience, having only the powers that we choose to give it.
This is the heritage that you are about to claim as you come out to join the society made up of those who have preceded you by a few years, or some of us by a great many.
This experiment in man's relation to man is a few years into its third century.
Saying that may make it sound quite old.
But let us look at it from another viewpoint or perspective.
A few years ago, someone figured out that if you could condense the entire history of life on Earth into a motion picture that would run for 24 hours a day, 365 days  maybe on leap years we could have an intermission  this idea that is the United States would not appear on the screen until 31/2 seconds before midnight on December 31st.
And in those 3? seconds not only would a new concept of society come into being, a golden hope for all mankind, but more than half the activity, economic activity in world history, would take place on this continent.
Free to express their genius, individual Americans, men and women, in 3 1/2 seconds, would perform such miracles of invention, construction, and production as the world had never seen.
As you join us out there beyond the campus, you know there are great unsolved problems.
Federalism, with its built in checks and balances, has been distorted.
Central government has usurped powers that properly belong to local and State governments.
And in so doing, in many ways that central government has begun to fail to do the things that are truly the responsibility of a central government.
All of this has led to the misuse of power and preemption of the prerogatives of people and their social institutions.
You are graduating from a great private, or, if you will, independent university.
Not too many years ago, such schools were relatively free from government interference.
In recent years, government has spawned regulations covering virtually every facet of our lives.
The independent and church-supported colleges and universities have found themselves enmeshed in that network of regulations and the costly blizzard of paperwork that government is demanding.
Thirty-four congressional committees and almost 80 subcommittees have jurisdiction over 439 separate laws affecting education at the college level alone.
Almost every aspect of campus life is now regulated  hiring, firing, promotions, physical plant, construction, record-keeping, fund-raising and, to some extent, curriculum and educational programs.
I hope when you leave this campus that you will do so with a feeling of obligation to your alma mater.
She will need your help and support in the years to come.
If ever the great independent colleges and universities like Notre Dame give way to and are replaced by tax-supported institutions, the struggle to preserve academic freedom will have been lost.
We're troubled today by economic stagnation, brought on by inflated currency and prohibitive taxes and burdensome regulations.
The cost of stagnation in human terms, mostly among those least equipped to survive it, is cruel and inhuman.
Now, after those remarks, do not decide that you had better turn your diploma back in so you can stay another year on the campus.
I have just given you the bad news.
The good news is that something is being done about all this because the people of America have said, Enough already.
You know, we who had preceded you had just gotten so busy that we let things get out of hand.
We forgot that we were the keepers of the power, forgot to challenge the notion that the state is the principal vehicle of social change, forgot that millions of social interactions among free individuals and institutions can do more to foster economic and social progress than all the careful schemes of government planners.
Well, at last we are remembering, remembering that government has certain legitimate functions which it can perform very well, that it can be responsive to the people, that it can be humane and compassionate, but that when it undertakes tasks that are not its proper province, it can do none of them as well or as economically as the private sector.
For too long government has been fixing things that are not broken and inventing miracle cures for unknown diseases.
We need you.
We need your youth.
We need your strength.
We need your idealism to help us make right that which is wrong.
Now, I know that this period of your life, you have been and are critically looking at the mores and customs of the past and questioning their value.
Every generation does that.
May I suggest, do not discard the time-tested values upon which civilization was built simply because they are old.
More important, do not let today's doom criers and cynics persuade you that the best is past, that from here on it is all downhill.
Each generation sees farther than the generation that preceded it because it stands on the shoulders of that generation.
You're going to have opportunities beyond anything that we have ever known.
The people have made it plain already.
They want an end to excessive government intervention in their lives and in the economy, an end to the burdensome and unnecessary regulations and a punitive tax policy that does take from the mouth of labor the bread it has earned.
They want a government that cannot only continue to send men across the vast reaches of space and bring them safely home, but that can guarantee that you and I can walk in the park of our neighborhood after dark and get safely home.
And finally, they want to know that this Nation has the ability to defend itself against those who would seek to pull it down.
And all of this, we the people can do.
Indeed, a start has already been made.
There's a task force under the leadership of the Vice President, George Bush, that is to look at those regulations I have spoken of.
They have already identified hundreds of them that can be wiped out with no harm to the quality of life.
And the cancellation of just those regulations will leave billions and billions of dollars in the hands of the people for productive enterprise and research and development and the creation of jobs.
The years ahead are great ones for this country, for the cause of freedom and the spread of civilization.
The West will not contain communism, it will transcend communism.
It will not bother to dismiss or denounce it, it will dismiss it as some bizarre chapter in human history whose last pages are even now being written.
William Faulkner, at a Nobel Prize ceremony some time back, said man would not only  endure: he will prevail against the modern world because he will return to the old verities and truths of the heart.
And then Faulkner said of man, He is immortal because he alone among creatures.
has a soul, a spirit capable of compassion and sacrifice and endurance.
One cannot say those words  compassion, sacrifice, and endurance  without thinking of the irony that one who so exemplifies them, Pope John Paul II, a man of peace and goodness, an inspiration to the world, would be struck by a bullet from a man towards whom he could only feel compassion and love.
It was Pope John Paul II who warned in last year's encyclical on mercy and justice against certain economic theories that use the rhetoric of class struggle to justify injustice.
He said, In the name of an alleged justice the neighbor is sometimes destroyed, killed, deprived of liberty or stripped of fundamental human rights.
For the West, for America, the time has come to dare to show to the world that our civilized ideas, our traditions, our values, are not  like the ideology and war machine of totalitarian societies  just a facade of strength.
It is time for the world to know our intellectual and spiritual values are rooted in the source of all strength, a belief in a Supreme Being, and a law higher than our own.
When it is written, history of our time will not dwell long on the hardships of the recent past.
But history will ask  and our answer determine the fate of freedom for a thousand years  Did a nation born of hope lose hope? Did a people forged by courage find courage wanting'? Did a generation steeled by hard war and a harsh peace forsake honor at the moment of great climactic struggle for the human spirit?If history asks such questions, it also answers them.
And the answers are to be found in the heritage left by generations of Americans before us.
They stand in silent witness to what the world will soon know and history someday record: that in the  third century, the American Nation came of age, affirmed its leadership of free men and women serving selflessly a vision of man with God, government for people, and humanity at peace.
A few years ago, an Australian Prime Minister, John Gorton, said, I wonder if anybody ever thought what the situation for the comparatively small nations in the world would be if there were not in existence the United States, if there were not this giant country prepared to make so many sacrifices.
This is the noble and rich heritage rooted in great civil ideas of the West, and it is yours.
My hope today is that in the years to come  and come it shall  when it is your time to explain to another generation the meaning of the past and thereby hold out to them their promise of the future, that you will recall the truths and traditions of which we have spoken.
It is these truths and traditions that define our civilization and make up our national heritage.
And now, they are yours to protect and pass on.
I have one more hope for you: when you do speak to the next generation about these things, that you will always be able to speak of an America that is strong and free, to find in your hearts an unbounded pride in this much-loved country, this once and future land, this bright and hopeful nation whose generous spirit and great ideals the world still honors.
Congratulations, and God bless you.
Chairwoman Margaret Bush Wilson, I thank you very much for that introduction and that explanation also of my year's tardiness in getting here.
I remember a year ago I was in California when I received your invitation at the same time that I received a clipping that I had not answered your invitation.
Now, at that moment it was almost impossible for me  well, it was impossible to find a way  not even Air Force One could have bridged from California to Florida.
But I am delighted that this time, as you say, there was better staff work and I was able to get the invitation in plenty of time.
President Cobb, Vice Chairman Kelly Alexander, and Executive Director Benjamin Hooks, the ladies and gentlemen here on the platform, the members of the board of directors, and you, ladies and gentlemen, representatives to this convention:I am very happy to be talking to the NAACP's 72rd annual convention.
There are many things that we need to discuss, and I thank you for the invitation to do so.
Let us talk today about the needs of the future, not the misunderstandings of the past; about new ideas, not old ones; about what must become a continuing dialog, not a dialog that flows only at intermittent conventions that we both attend.
Part of that continuing dialog took place last Tuesday when I met with Ben Hooks and Margaret Bush Wilson in the Oval Office.
Our discussion was candid and useful.
The wide range of our conversation showed that there is a great deal to be gained when we take time to share our views.
And while our communication should always deal with current issues of importance, it must never stray far from our national commitment to battle against discrimination and increase our knowledge of each other.
A few isolated groups in the backwater of American life still hold perverted notions of what America is all about.
Recently in some places in the nation there is been a disturbing reoccurrence of bigotry and violence.
If I may, from the platform of this organization, known for its tolerance, I would like to address a few remarks to those groups who still adhere to senseless racism and religious prejudice, to those individuals who persist in such hateful behavior.
If I were speaking to them instead of to you, I would say to them, You are the ones who are out of step with our society.
You are the ones who willfully violate the meaning of the dream that is America.
And this country, because of what it stands for, will not stand for your conduct.
My administration will vigorously investigate and prosecute those who, by violence or intimidation, would attempt to deny Americans their constitutional rights.
Another kind of terror has recently plagued the city of Atlanta.
Not long ago in a speech before the Congress I read the now famous pajama letter from Peter Sweeney.
If only my letters from children could all be as lighthearted as Peter's.
Other letters are more poignant.
When little girls in Atlanta write asking that I make things right so they will not be scared anymore, even a President of the United States can feel a little helpless.
We committed the resources of the FBI and a number of Federal agencies to help Mayor Jackson.
I appointed Vice President Bush to head this Federal task force, and its work will continue until this tragic episode is over.
Not counting manpower and equipment, we have provided over $4 million to this cause.
I know that all of us wish we could tell the children of Atlanta that they need no longer fear, and until we can say that, however, we will not be satisfied until those children can once again play safely in their school yards and parks.
Our dialog must also include discussions on how we can best protect the rights and privileges of all our citizens.
My administration will root out any case of government discrimination against minorities and uphold and enforce the laws that protect them.
I emphasize that we will not retreat on the nation's commitment to equal treatment of all citizens.
Now, that, in my view, is the primary responsibility of National Government.
The Attorney General is now carefully studying the decennial redistricting plans being submitted under the current Voting Rights Act.
As soon as we have all the information there will be a decision regarding extension of the act.
Until a decision is announced, you should know this: I regard voting as the most sacred right of free men and women.
We have not sacrificed and fought and toiled to protect that right so that now we can sit back and permit a barrier to come between a secret ballot and any citizen who makes a choice to cast it.
Nothing  nothing will change that as long as I am in a position to uphold the Constitution of the United States.
In the months ahead, our dialog also will include tough and realistic questions about the role of the Federal Government in the black community.
I am not satisfied with its results, and I do not think you are either.
And the failures of the past have been particularly hard on the minority poor, because their hopes have failed as surely as the Federal programs that built those hopes.
But I must not be the only one who questions about government policies.
Can the black teenager who faces a staggering unemployment rate feel that government policies are a success? Can the black wage earner who sees more and more of his take-home pay shrinking because of government taxes feel satisfied? Can black parents say, despite a massive influx of Federal aid, that educational standards in our schools have improved appreciably? Can the women I saw on television recently  whose family had been on welfare for three generations and who feared that her children might be the fourth  can she believe that current government policies will save her children from such a fate?We ask these tough questions, because we share your concerns about the future of the black community.
We ask these questions, because the blacks of America should not be patronized as just one more voting bloc to be wooed and won.
You are individuals as we all are.
Some have special needs.
I do not think the Federal Government has met those needs.
I have been listening to the specific needs of many people  blacks, farmers, refugees, union members, women, small business men and women, and other groups  they are commonly referred to as special-interest groups.
Well, in reality they are all members of the interest group that I spoke of the day I took the oath of office.
They are the people of America.
And I am pleased to serve that special-interest group.
The people of the inner cities will be represented by this administration every bit as much as the citizens of Flagstaff, Arizona, Ithaca, New York, or Dixon, Illinois, where I grew up.
Anyone who becomes President realizes he must represent all the people of the land, not just those of a home State or a particular party.
Nor can he be just President of those who voted for him.
But it does not matter what groups we belong to, what area we live in, how much or how little we earn; the economy affects every single one of us regardless of our other interests and affiliations.
We have proceeded full throttle on our economic recovery program, because a strong, growing economy without inflation is the surest, most equitable way to ease the pressures on all the segments of our society.
The well-being of blacks, like the well-being of every other American, is linked directly to the health of the economy.
For example, industries in which blacks had made sufficient gains in employment  substantial gains, like autos and steel  have been particularly hard hit.
And last hired, first fired is a familiar refrain to too many black workers.
And I do not need to tell this group what inflation has done to those who can least afford it.
A declining economy is a poisonous gas that claims its first victims in poor neighborhoods, before floating out into the community at large.
Therefore, in our national debate over budget and tax proposals, we shall not concede the moral high ground to the proponents of those policies that are responsible in the first place for our economic mess  a mess which has injured all Americans.
We will not concede the moral high ground to those who show more concern for Federal programs than they do for what really determines the income and financial health of blacks  the nation's economy.
Now, I know you have been told that my proposal for economic recovery is designed to discriminate against all who are economically deprived.
Now, those who say that could be confused by the misstatements that have been made by some who are either ignorant of the facts or those who are practicing, for political reasons, pure demagoguery.
Rebuilding America's economy is an absolute moral imperative if we are to avoid splitting this society in two with class against class.
I do not intend to let America drift further toward economic segregation.
We must change the economic direction of this country to bring more blacks into the mainstream, and we must do it now.
And in 1938, before we had the equality we know today, Langston Hughes wrote Let America Be America Again.
And he wrote:Oh, yes, I see  it plainAmerica never was America to me.
And yet I swear this oath  America will be!America will be.
That is the philosophy the people proclaimed in last November's election.
America will be.
And this time, she will be for everyone.
Together, we can recreate for every citizen the same economic opportunities that we saw lift up a land of immigrant people, the kind of opportunities that have swept the hungry and the persecuted into the mainstream of our life since the American experiment began.
To a number of black Americans, the U.
S.
economy has been something of an underground railroad; it has spirited them away from poverty to middle-class prosperity and beyond.
But too many blacks still remain behind.
A glance at the statistics will show that a large proportion of the black people have not found economic freedom.
Nationwide, for example, 43 percent of black families in 1979 had money incomes under $10,000.
Harriet Tubman, who was known as the conductor of that earlier underground railroad, said on her first escape from slavery, When I found I had crossed that line, I looked at my hands to see if I was the same person.
There was such a glory over everything.
Even after a century the beauty of her words is powerful.
We can only imagine the soaring of her soul, what a feeling that must have been when she crossed into freedom and the physical and mental shackles fell from her person.
Harriet Tubman's glory was the glory of the American experience.
It was a glory which had no color or religious preference or nationality.
It was simply, eloquently, the universal thirst that all people have for freedom.
Well, there are poor people in this country who should experience just such an elation if they found the economic freedom of a solid job, a productive job  not one concocted by government and dependent on Washington winds; a real job where they could put in a good day's work, complain about the boss, and then go home with confidence and self-respect.
Why has this Nation been unable to fill such a basic, admirable need?The government can provide subsistence, yes, but it seldom moves people up the economic ladder.
And as I have said before, you have to get on the ladder before you can move up on it.
I believe many in Washington, over the years, have been more dedicated to making needy people government dependent rather than independent.
They've created a new kind of bondage, because regardless of how honest their intention in the beginning, those they set out to help soon became clients essential to the well-being of those who administered the programs.
An honest program would be dedicated to making people independent, no longer in need of government assistance.
But then what would happen to those who made a career of helping? Well, Americans have been very generous, with good intentions and billions of dollars, toward those they believed were living in hardship.
And yet, in spite of the hopes, the government has never lived up to the dreams of poor people.
Just as the Emancipation Proclamation freed black people 118 years ago, today we need to declare an economic emancipation.
I genuinely and deeply believe the economic package we have put forth will move us toward black economic freedom, because it is aimed at lifting an entire country and not just parts of it.
There's a truth to the words spoken by John F.
Kennedy that a rising tide lifts all boats.
Yes, I know it is been said, What about the fellow without a boat who cannot swim? Well, I believe John Kennedy's figure of speech was referring to the benefits which accrue to all when the economy is flourishing.
Now, much has been said and written-not all of it flattering  about the savings I have proposed in the budget which were adopted by the House last Friday.
I can assure you that the budget savings we have advocated are much more equitable than the tremendous cuts in social programs, made by inflation and the declining economy, which cannot find jobs for almost 8 million men and women who are unemployed.
Those cuts are exacted without regard to need or age.
Let me give some examples.
In the prosperity of the 1960's, an era of only a few Federal programs costing very little, the number of people living in poverty was reduced by nearly 50 percent.
During the stagflation of the 1970's with many Federal programs with huge budgets, the number living in poverty was reduced by only 6 percent.
In the 1960's black unemployment fell from 10.
7 percent to 6.
4 percent.
In the 1970's it increased from 6.
4 percent to 11.
3 percent.
What is more, relative to the white unemployment rate, black unemployment fell more in the 1960's but rose more in the 1970's.
The declining economy has cut black family income.
From 1959 to 1969, the median family income of blacks, after adjusting for inflation, rose at 5 percent per year, but from 1969 to 1979, income actually dropped.
Now, these are hard economic facts which are hard to take, because they show massive amounts of government aid and intervention have failed to produce the desired results.
A strong economy returns the greatest good to the black population.
It returns a benefit greater than that provided by specific Federal programs.
By slowing the growth of government and by limiting the tax burden and thus stimulating investment, we will also be reducing inflation and unemployment.
We will be creating jobs, nearly 3 million additional new jobs by 1986.
We will be aiding minority businesses, which have been particularly hard hit by the scarcity of capital and the prohibitive interest rates.
And these concerns are what the bipartisan tax cut proposal currently before the Congress is all about.
I said the other day in our conversation in the Oval Office that the income a year or two ago  I do not have the most recent figure  for the black community was something like $140 billion.
Now, in most neighborhoods what really brings prosperity is when the income of that neighborhood is then multiplied by turning over several times within that community.
I must tell you that in the black communities in America the turnover is less than once before the dollars, those $140 billion, go out into the community at large.
And that has to be changed.
In the convention last summer Benjamin Hooks  the one that I missed  well, no, this was the Republican Convention; I made that one  Benjamin Hooks said to the assembled delegates, We must decide as a nation if we are to become prisoners of our past or possessors of an enlightened and progressive future.
Those are the very words I want to say to you today.
We cannot be tied to the old ways of solving our economic and racial problems.
But it is time we looked to new answers and new ways of thinking that will accomplish the very ends the New Deal and the Great Society anticipated.
We're not repealing the gains of black people.
We're solidifying those gains and making them safe for your children and grandchildren.
It's time that we found ways to make the American economic pie bigger instead of just cutting an ever smaller pie into more but smaller slices.
It's time we welcomed those Americans into the circle of prosperity to let them share in the wonders of our society, and it is time to break the cycle of dependency that has become the legacy of so many Federal programs that no longer work  indeed, some of which never did work.
Let me give you an idea of how bountiful this famous economic pie could have been by now.
If productivity had not stopped growing and then started downhill after 1965, the gross national product today would be $850 billion bigger  enough to balance the budget, cut personal and social security taxes in half, and still provide every American with an extra $2,500 in spending money.
And all of this would have happened with the compliments of the private sector.
Now, you wisely learned to harness the Federal Government in the hard pull toward equality, and that was right, because guaranteeing equality of treatment is government's proper function.
But as the last decade of statistics I just read indicated, government is no longer the strong draft horse of minority progress, because it has attempted to do too many things it is not equipped to do.
I ask you if it is not time to hitch up a fresh horse to finish the task.
Free enterprise is a powerful workhorse that can solve many problems of the black community that government alone can no longer solve.
The black leadership of this Nation has shown tremendous courage, both physical and intellectual, and great creativity as it sought to bring equality to its people.
You in this audience are the inheritors of that proud black heritage.
You are the black leaders of today, and I believe you possess the very same courage and creativity.
I ask you to use that courage and creativity to examine the challenges that are facing not just blacks but all of America.
I ask you to question the status quo as your predecessors did and look for new and imaginative ways to overcome minority problems.
I am talking about the kind of courage and questioning your chairman, Margaret Bush Wilson, showed in taking the heat for the NAACP's controversial 1978 energy statement  a statement which shook the elitists of our country back into the real world, at least for a time.
What I am asking you to consider requires not so much a leap of faith, but a realization that the Federal Government alone is just not capable of doing the job we all want done for you or any other Americans.
In the months ahead, as the administration is free to turn attention from the economic program to other needs of America, we will be advancing proposals on a number of issues of concern to this convention.
The inner cities, for example, should be communities, neighborhoods, not warehouses of despair where children are bused out and ineffectual Federal funds are bused in.
I believe that with the aid of commonsense government assistance and the use of free enterprise zones, with less reliance on busing and more reliance on better, basic education, and with an emphasis on local activism, such as you represent, communities can be reinvigorated.
Certainly, we are all inspired by the wonderful example of Marva Collins in Chicago, the gallant lady who has the educational grit to make Shakespeare admirers out of inner-city children.
She just proves to me what a friend of mine, Wilson Riles, California's superintendent of education, used to say: The concept that black children cannot learn unless they are sitting among white children is utter and complete nonsense.
Now,  Riles was not suggesting that integration is not a good and proper thing; it is.
And it is good for all of us when it is brought about with commonsense and attention to what is best for the children.
We plan to take a look, a comprehensive look, at the education of blacks from primary school upward and strengthen the base of black colleges, which are a sound educational investment.
They are more than that.
They're a proud tradition, a symbol of black determination and accomplishment, and I feel deeply they must be preserved.
We've increased the share of Department of Education Title III funds spend on black colleges, and that trend will continue.
We have equal concern for the black business leaders of today.
Minority business development, as I indicated earlier, is a key to black economic progress.
Black-owned businesses are especially important in neighborhood economies where the dollars, as I said, spent have a beneficial multiplier effect.
We want your input.
I expect my domestic advisers to be in regular touch with you as our policies evolve.
We may not always agree, but new ideas are often sparked by opinions clashing.
I did not come here today bearing the promises of government handouts, which others have brought and which you have rightly learned to mistrust.
Instead, I ask you to join me to build a coalition for change.
Seventy-two years ago the famous call went forth, the call for a conference emphasizing the civil and political rights of blacks.
And the result of that call, of course, was the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People.
Well, today let us issue a call for new perspectives on the economic challenges facing black Americans.
Let us issue a call for exciting programs to spring America forward toward the next century, an America full of new solutions to old problems.
We will link hands to build an era where we can put fear behind us and hope in front of us.
It can be an era in which programs are less important than opportunities.
It can be an era where we all reach out in reconciliation instead of anger and dispute.
In the war in Vietnam several years ago, a live grenade fell among a group of American soldiers.
They were frozen with horror knowing they were only seconds away from death.
Then one young soldier, a black, threw himself on the grenade, covering it with his helmet and his body.
He died to save his comrades.
Greater glory hath no man.
Congressional Medal of Honor winner, posthumously presented, Garfield Langhorn's last whispered words were, You have to care.
Let us care.
Let us work to build a nation that is free of racism, full of opportunity, and determined to loosen the creative energies of every person of every race, of every station, to make a better life.
It will be my honor to stand alongside you to answer this call.
Thank you.
I had intended to make some remarks about the problem of social security tonight, but the immediacy of congressional action on the tax program, a key component of our economic package, has to take priority.
Let me just say, however, I have been deeply disturbed by the way those of you who are dependent on social security have been needlessly frightened by some of the inaccuracies which have been given wide circulation.
It's true that the social security system has financial problems.
It's also true that these financial problems have been building for more than 20 years, and nothing has been done.
I hope to address you on this entire subject in the near future.
In the meantime, let me just say this: I stated during the campaign and I repeat now, I will not stand by and see those of you who are dependent on social security deprived of the benefits you have worked so hard to earn.
I make that pledge to you as your President.
You have no reason to be frightened.
You will continue to receive your checks in the full amount due you.
In any plan to restore fiscal integrity of social security, I personally will see that the plan will not be at the expense of you who are now dependent on your monthly social security checks.
Now, let us turn to the business at hand.
It's been nearly 6 months since I first reported to you on the state of the nation's economy.
I am afraid my message that night was grim and disturbing.
I remember telling you we were in the worst economic mess since the Great Depression.
Prices were continuing to spiral upward, unemployment was reaching intolerable levels, and all because government was too big and spent too much of our money.
We're still not out of the woods, but we have made a start.
And we have certainly surprised those longtime and somewhat cynical observers of the Washington scene, who looked, listened, and said, It can never be done; Washington will never change its spending habits.
Well, something very exciting has been happening here in Washington, and you are responsible.
Your voices have been heard  millions of you, Democrats, Republicans, and Independents, from every profession, trade and line of work, and from every part of this land.
You sent a message that you wanted a new beginning.
You wanted to change one little, two little word  two letter word, I should say.
It does not sound like much, but it sure can make a difference changing by government, control by government to control of government.
In that earlier broadcast, you will recall I proposed a program to drastically cut back government spending in the 1982 budget, which begins October 1st, and to continue cutting in the '83 and '84 budgets.
Along with this I suggested an across-the-board tax cut, spread over those same 3 years, and the elimination of unnecessary regulations which were adding billions to the cost of things we buy.
All the lobbying, the organized demonstrations, and the cries of protest by those whose way of life depends on maintaining government's wasteful ways were no match for your voices, which were heard loud and clear in these marble halls of government.
And you made history with your telegrams, your letters, your phone calls and, yes, personal visits to talk to your elected representatives.
You reaffirmed the mandate you delivered in the election last November  a mandate that called for an end to government policies that sent prices and mortgage rates skyrocketing while millions of Americans went jobless.
Because of what you did, Republicans and Democrats in the Congress came together and passed the most sweeping cutbacks in the history of the Federal budget.
Right now, Members of the House and Senate are meeting in a conference committee to reconcile the differences between the two budget-cutting bills passed by the House and Senate.
When they finish, all Americans will benefit from savings of approximately $140 billion in reduced government costs over just the next 3 years.
And that does not include the additional savings from the hundreds of burdensome regulations already cancelled or facing cancellation.
For 19 out of the last 20 years, the Federal Government has spent more than it took in.
There will be another large deficit in this present year which ends September 30th, but with our program in place, it will not be quite as big as it might have been.
And starting next year, the deficits will get smaller until in just a few years the budget can be balanced.
And we hope we can begin whittling at that almost $1 trillion debt that hangs over the future of our children.
Now, so far, I have been talking about only one part of our program for economic recovery-the budget-cutting part.
I do not minimize its importance.
Just the fact that Democrats and Republicans could work together as they have, proving the strength of our system, has created an optimism in our land.
The rate of inflation is no longer in double-digit figures.
The dollar has regained strength in the international money markets, and businessmen and investors are making decisions with regard to industrial development, modernization and expansion-all of this based on anticipation of our program being adopted and put into operation.
A recent poll shows that where a year and a half ago only 24 percent of our people believed things would get better, today 46 percent believe they will.
To justify their faith, we must deliver the other part of our program.
Our economic package is a closely knit, carefully constructed plan to restore America's economic strength and put our nation back on the road to prosperity.
Each part of this package is vital.
It cannot be considered piecemeal.
It was proposed as a package, and it has been supported as such by the American people.
Only if the Congress passes all of its major components does it have any real chance of success.
This is absolutely essential if we are to provide incentives and make capital available for the increased productivity required to provide real, permanent jobs for our people.
And let us not forget that the rest of the world is watching America carefully to see how we will act at this critical moment.
I have recently returned from a summit meeting with world leaders in Ottawa, Canada, and the message I heard from them was quite clear.
Our allies depend on a strong and economically sound America.
And they are watching events in this country, particularly those surrounding our program for economic recovery, with close attention and great hopes.
In short, the best way to have a strong foreign policy abroad is to have a strong economy at home.
The day after tomorrow, Wednesday, the House of Representatives will begin debate on two tax bills.
And once again, they need to hear from you.
I know that does not give you much time, but a great deal is at stake.
A few days ago I was visited here in the office by a Democratic Congressman from one of our southern States.
He'd been back in his district.
And one day one of his constituents asked him where he stood on our economic recovery program  I outlined that program in an earlier broadcast-particularly the tax cut.
Well, the Congressman, who happens to be a strong leader in support of our program, replied at some length with a discussion of the technical points involved, but he also mentioned a few reservations he had on certain points.
The constituent, a farmer, listened politely until he had finished, and then he said, Don't give me an essay.
What I want to know is are you for 'im or agin 'im?Well, I appreciate the gentleman's support and suggest his question is a message your own representatives should hear.
Let me add, those representatives honestly and sincerely want to know your feelings.
They get plenty of input from the special interest groups.
They'd like to hear from their home folks.
Now, let me explain what the situation is and what is at issue.
With our budget cuts, we have presented a complete program of reduction in tax rates.
Again, our purpose was to provide incentive for the individual, incentives for business to encourage production and hiring of the unemployed, and to free up money for investment.
Our bill calls for a 5-percent reduction in the income tax rates by October 1st, a 10-percent reduction beginning July 1st, 1982, and another 10-percent cut a year later, a 25-percent total reduction over 3 years.
But then to ensure the tax cut is permanent, we call for indexing the tax rates in 1985, which means adjusting them for inflation.
As it is now, if you get a cost-of-living raise that is intended to keep you even with inflation, you find that the increase in the number of dollars you get may very likely move you into a higher tax bracket, and you wind up poorer than you would.
This is called bracket creep.
Bracket creep is an insidious tax.
Let me give an example.
If you earned $10,000 a year in 1972, by 1980 you had to earn $19,700 just to stay even with inflation.
But that is before taxes.
Come April 15th, you will find your tax rates have increased 30 percent.
Now, if you have been wondering why you do not seem as well-off as you were a few years back, it is because government makes a profit on inflation.
It gets an automatic tax increase without having to vote on it.
We intend to stop that.
Time will not allow me to explain every detail.
But our bill includes just about everything to help the economy.
We reduce the marriage penalty, that unfair tax that has a working husband and wife pay more tax than if they were single.
We increase the exemption on the inheritance or estate tax to $600,000, so that farmers and family-owned businesses do not have to sell the farm or store in the event of death just to pay the taxes.
Most important, we wipe out the tax entirely for a surviving spouse.
No longer, for example, will a widow have to sell the family source of income to pay a tax on her husband's death.
There are deductions to encourage investment and savings.
Business gets realistic depreciation on equipment and machinery.
And there are tax breaks for small and independent businesses which create 80 percent of all our new jobs.
This bill also provides major credits to the research and development industry.
These credits will help spark the high technology breakthroughs that are so critical to America's economic leadership in the world.
There are also added incentives for small businesses, including a provision that will lift much of the burden of costly paperwork that government has imposed on small business.
In addition, there is short-term but substantial assistance for the hard pressed thrift industry, as well as reductions in oil taxes that will benefit new or independent oil producers and move our nation a step closer to energy self-sufficiency.
Our bill is, in short, the first real tax cut for everyone in almost 20 years.
Now, when I first proposed this  incidentally, it has now become a bipartisan measure coauthored by Republican Barber Conable and Democrat Kent Hance  the Democratic leadership said a tax cut was out of the question.
It would be wildly inflationary.
And that was before my inauguration.
And then your voices began to he heard and suddenly, in February, the leadership discovered that, well, a 1-year tax cut was feasible.
Well, we kept on pushing our 3-year tax cut and by June, the opposition found that a 2-year tax cut might work.
Now it is July, and they find they could even go for a third year cut provided there was a trigger arrangement that would only allow it to go into effect if certain economic goals had been met by 1983.
But by holding the people's tax reduction hostage to future economic events, they will eliminate the people's ability to plan ahead.
Shopkeepers, farmers, and individuals will be denied the certainty they must have to begin saving or investing more of their money.
And encouraging more savings and investment is precisely what we need now to rebuild our economy.
There's also a little sleight of hand in that trigger mechanism.
You see, their bill, the committee bill, ensures that the 1983 deficit will be $6 1/2 billion greater than their own trigger requires.
As it stands now, the design of their own bill will not meet the trigger they have put in; therefore, the third year tax cut will automatically never take place.
If I could paraphrase a well-known statement by Will Rogers that he had never met a man he did not like, I am afraid we have some people around here who never met a tax they did not hike.
Their tax proposal, similar in a number of ways to ours but differing in some very vital parts, was passed out of the House Ways and Means Committee, and from now on I will refer to it as the committee bill and ours as the bipartisan bill.
They'll be the bills taken up Wednesday.
The majority leadership claims theirs gives a greater break to the worker than ours, and it does  that is, if your're only planning to live 2 more years.
The plain truth is, our choice is not between two plans to reduce taxes; it is between a tax cut or a tax increase.
There is now built into our present system, including payroll social security taxes and the bracket creep I have mentioned, a 22-percent tax increase over the next 3 years.
The committee bill offers a 15-percent cut over 2 years; our bipartisan bill gives a 25-percent reduction over 3 years.
Now, as you can see by this chart, there is the 22-percent tax increase.
Their cut is below that line.
But ours wipes out that increase and with a little to spare.
And there it is, as you can see.
The red column  that is the 15-percent tax cut, and it still leaves you with an increase.
The green column is our bipartisan bill which wipes out the tax increase and gives you an ongoing cut.
Incidentally, their claim that cutting taxes for individuals for as much as 3 years ahead is risky, rings a little hollow when you realize that their bill calls for business tax cuts each year for 7 years ahead.
It rings even more hollow when you consider the fact the majority leadership routinely endorses Federal spending bills that project years into the future, but objects to a tax bill that will return your money over a 3-year period.
Now, here is another chart which illustrates what I said about their giving a better break if you only intend to live for 2 more years.
Their tax cut, so called, is the dotted line.
Ours is the solid line.
As you can see, in an earning bracket of $20,000, their tax cut is slightly more generous than ours for the first 2 years.
Then, as you can see, their tax bill, the dotted line, starts going up and up and up.
On the other hand, in our bipartisan tax bill, the solid line, our tax cut keeps on going down, and then stays down permanently.
This is true of all earning brackets  not just the $20,000 level that I have used as an example  from the lowest to the highest.
This red space between the two lines is the tax money that will remain in your pockets if our bill passes; and it is the amount that will leave your pockets if their tax bill is passed.
Now, I take no pleasure in saying this, but those who will seek to defeat our Conable-Hanee bipartisan bill as debate begins Wednesday are the ones who have given us five tax cuts in the last 10 years.
But, our taxes went up $400 billion in those same 10 years.
The lines on these charts say a lot about who is really fighting for whom.
On the one hand, you see a genuine and lasting commitment to the future of working Americans; on the other, just another empty promise.
Those of us in the bipartisan coalition want to give this economy and the future of this Nation back to the people, because putting people first has always been America's secret weapon.
The House majority leadership seems less concerned about protecting your family budget than with spending more on the Federal budget.
Our bipartisan tax bill targets three-quarters of its tax relief to middle-income wage earners who presently pay almost three-quarter of the total income tax.
It also then indexes the tax brackets to ensure that you can keep that tax reduction in the years ahead.
There also is, as I said, estate tax relief that will keep family farms and family-owned businesses in the family, and there are provisions for personal retirement plans and individual savings accounts.
Because our bipartisan bill is so clearly drawn and broadly based, it provides the kind of predictability and certainty that the financial segments of our society need to make investment decisions that stimulate productivity and make our economy grow.
Even more important, if the tax cut goes to you, the American people, in the third year, that money returned to you will not be available to the Congress to spend, and that, in my view, is what this whole controversy comes down to.
Are you entitled to the fruits of your own labor or does government have some presumptive right to spend and spend and spend?I am also convinced our business tax cut is superior to theirs because it is more equitable, and it will do a much better job promoting the surge in investment we so badly need to rebuild our industrial base.
There's something else I want to tell you.
Our bipartisan coalition worked out a tax bill we felt would provide incentive and stimulate productivity, thus reducing inflation and providing jobs for the unemployed.
That was our only goal.
Our opponents in the beginning did not want a tax bill at all.
So what is the purpose behind their change of heart? They've put a tax program together for one reason only: to provide themselves with a political victory.
Never mind that it will not solve the economic problems confronting our country.
Never mind that it will not get the wheels of industry turning again or eliminate the inflation which is eating us alive.
This is not the time for political fun and games.
This is the time for a new beginning.
I ask you now to put aside any feelings of frustration or helplessness about our political institutions and join me in this dramatic but responsible plan to reduce the enormous burden of Federal taxation on you and your family.
During recent months many of you have asked what can you do to help make America strong again.
I urge you again to contact your Senators and Congressmen.
Tell them of your support for this bipartisan proposal.
Tell them you believe this is an unequalled opportunity to help return America to prosperity and make government again the servant of the people.
In a few days the Congress will stand at the fork of two roads.
One road is all too familiar to us.
It leads ultimately to higher taxes.
It merely brings us full circle back to the source of our economic problems, where the government decides that it knows better than you what should be done with your earnings and, in fact, how you should conduct your life.
The other road promises to renew the American spirit.
It's a road of hope and opportunity.
It places the direction of your life back in your hands where it belongs.
I have not taken your time this evening merely to ask you to trust me.
Instead, I ask you to trust yourselves.
That's what America is all about.
Our struggle for nationhood, our unrelenting fight for freedom, our very existence  these have all rested on the assurance that you must be free to shape your life as you are best able to, that no one can stop you from reaching higher or take from you the creativity that has made America the envy of mankind.
One road is timid and fearful; the other bold and hopeful.
In these 6 months, we have done so much and have come so far.
It's been the power of millions of people like you who have determined that we will make America great again.
You have made the difference up to now.
You will make the difference again.
Let us not stop now.
Thank you.
God bless you, and good night.
This morning at 7 a.
m.
the union representing those who man America's air traffic control facilities called a strike.
This was the culmination of 7 months of negotiations between the Federal Aviation Administration and the union.
At one point in these negotiations agreement was reached and signed by both sides, granting a $40 million increase in salaries and benefits.
This is twice what other government employees can expect.
It was granted in recognition of the difficulties inherent in the work these people perform.
Now, however, the union demands are 17 times what had been agreed to  $681 million.
This would impose a tax burden on their fellow citizens which is unacceptable.
I would like to thank the supervisors and controllers who are on the job today, helping to get the nation's air system operating safely.
In the New York area, for example, four supervisors were scheduled to report for work, and 17 additionally volunteered.
At National Airport a traffic controller told a newsperson he had resigned from the union and reported to work because, How can I ask my kids to obey the law if I do not? This is a great tribute to America.
Let me make one thing plain.
I respect the right of workers in the private sector to strike.
Indeed, as president of my own union, I led the first strike ever called by that union.
I guess I am maybe the first one to ever hold this office who is a lifetime member of an AFL-CIO union.
But we cannot compare labor-management relations in the private sector with government.
Government cannot close down the assembly line.
It has to provide without interruption the protective services which are government's reason for being.
It was in recognition of this that the Congress passed a law forbidding strikes by government employees against the public safety.
Let me read the solemn oath taken by each of these employees, a sworn affidavit, when they accepted their jobs: I am not participating in any strike against the Government of the United States or any agency thereof, and I will not so participate while an employee of the Government of the United States or any agency thereof.
It is for this reason that I must tell those who fail to report for duty this morning they are in violation of the law, and if they do not report for work within 48 hours, they have forfeited their jobs and will be terminated.
Well, I have some people around here, and maybe I should refer that question to the Attorney General.
I told you what I think should be done.
They're terminated.
If any situation should arise that would require my presence here, naturally I will do that.
So, that will be a decision that awaits what is going to happen.
May I just  because I have to be back in there for another appointment  may I just say one thing on top of this? With all this talk of penalties and everything else, I hope that you will emphasize, again, the possibility of termination, because I believe that there are a great many of those people  and they are fine people  who have been swept up in this and probably have not really considered the result  the fact that they had taken an oath, the fact that this is now in violation of the law, as that one supervisor referred to with regard to his children.
And I am hoping that they will in a sense remove themselves from the lawbreaker situation by returning to their posts.
I have no way to know whether this had been conveyed to them by their union leaders, who had been informed that this would be the result of a strike.
Forty-eight hours.
What lesser action can there be? The law is very explicit.
They are violating the law.
And as I say, we called this to the attention of their leadership.
Whether this was conveyed to the membership before they voted to strike, I do not know.
But this is one of the reasons why there can be no further negotiation while this situation continues.
You cannot sit and negotiate with a union that is in violation of the law.
And their oath.
Well, that again is not for me to answer.
As far as the military personnel are concerned, they are going to fundamentally be backup to the supervisory personnel.
We had 150 on the job, supposedly, about a half-hour ago.
We're going to increase that to somewhere between 700 and 850.
?>?>.
Officers, ladies and gentlemen of the National Press Club and, as of a very short time ago, fellow members:Back in April while in the hospital I had, as you can readily understand, a lot of time for reflection.
And one day I decided to send a personal, handwritten letter to Soviet President Leonid Brezhnev reminding him that we had met about 10 years ago in San Clemente, California, as he and President Nixon were concluding a series of meetings that had brought hope to all the world.
Never had peace and good will seemed closer at hand.
I had like to read you a few paragraphs from that letter.
President: When we met, I asked if you were aware that the hopes and aspirations of millions of people throughout the world were dependent on the decisions that would be reached in those meetings.
You took my hand in both of yours and assured me that you were aware of that and that you were dedicated with all your heart and soul and mind to fulfilling those hopes and dreams.
I went on in my letter to say: The people of the world still share that hope.
Indeed, the peoples of the world, despite differences in racial and ethnic origin, have very much in common.
They want the dignity of having some control over their individual lives, their destiny.
They want to work at the craft or trade of their own choosing and to be fairly rewarded.
They want to raise their families in peace without harming anyone or suffering harm themselves.
Government exists for their convenience, not the other way around.
If they are incapable, as some would have us believe, of self-government, then where among them do we find any who are capable of governing others?Is it possible that we have permitted ideology, political and economic philosophies, and governmental policies to keep us from considering the very real, everyday problems of our peoples? Will the average Soviet family be better off or even aware that the Soviet Union has imposed a government of its own choice on the people of Afghanistan? Is life better for the people of Cuba because the Cuban military dictate who shall govern the people of Angola?It is often implied that such things have been made necessary because of territorial ambitions of the United States; that we have imperialistic designs, and thus constitute a threat to your own security and that of the newly emerging nations.
Not only is there no evidence to support such a charge, there is solid evidence that the United States, when it could have dominated the world with no risk to itself, made no effort whatsoever to do so.
When World War II ended, the United States had the only undamaged industrial power in the world.
Our military might was at its peak, and we alone had the ultimate weapon, the nuclear weapon, with the unquestioned ability to deliver it anywhere in the world.
If we had sought world domination then, who could have opposed us?But the United States followed a different course, one unique in all the history of mankind.
We used our power and wealth to rebuild the war-ravished economies of the world, including those of the nations who had been our enemies.
May I say, there is absolutely no substance to charges that the United States is guilty of imperialism or attempts to impose its will on other countries, by use of force.
I continued my letter by saying  or concluded my letter, I should say  by saying,  President, should we not be concerned with eliminating the obstacles which prevent our people, those you and I represent, from achieving their most cherished goals?Well, it is in the same spirit that I want to speak today to this audience and the people of the world about America's program for peace and the coming negotiations which begin November 30th in Geneva, Switzerland.
Specifically, I want to present our program for preserving peace in Europe and our wider program for arms control.
Twice in my lifetime, I have seen the peoples of Europe plunged into the tragedy of war.
Twice in my lifetime, Europe has suffered destruction and military occupation in wars that statesmen proved powerless to prevent, soldiers unable to contain, and ordinary citizens unable to escape.
And twice in my lifetime, young Americans have bled their lives into the soil of those battlefields not to enrich or enlarge our domain, but to restore the peace and independence of our friends and Allies.
All of us who lived through those troubled times share a common resolve that they must never come again.
And most of us share a common appreciation of the Atlantic Alliance that has made a peaceful, free, and prosperous Western Europe in the post-war era possible.
But today, a new generation is emerging on both sides of the Atlantic.
Its members were not present at the creation of the North Atlantic Alliance.
Many of them do not fully understand its roots in defending freedom and rebuilding a war-torn continent.
Some young people question why we need weapons, particularly nuclear weapons, to deter war and to assure peaceful development.
They fear that the accumulation of weapons itself may lead to conflagration.
Some even propose unilateral disarmament.
I understand their concerns.
Their questions deserve to be answered.
But we have an obligation to answer their questions on the basis of judgment and reason and experience.
Our policies have resulted in the longest European peace in this century.
Wouldn't a rash departure from these policies, as some now suggest, endanger that peace?From its founding, the Atlantic Alliance has preserved the peace through unity, deterrence, and dialog.
First, we and our Allies have stood united by the firm commitment that an attack upon any one of us would be considered an attack upon us all.
Second, we and our Allies have deterred aggression by maintaining forces strong enough to ensure that any aggressor would lose more from an attack than he could possibly gain.
And third, we and our Allies have engaged the Soviets in a dialog about mutual restraint and arms limitations, hoping to reduce the risk of war and the burden of armaments and to lower the barriers that divide East from West.
These three elements of our policy have preserved the peace in Europe for more than a third of a century.
They can preserve it for generations to come, so long as we pursue them with sufficient will and vigor.
Today, I wish to reaffirm America's commitment to the Atlantic Alliance and our resolve to sustain the peace.
And from my conversations with allied leaders, I know that they also remain true to this tried and proven course.
NATO's policy of peace is based on restraint and balance.
No NATO weapons, conventional or nuclear, will ever be used in Europe except in response to attack.
NATO's defense plans have been responsible and restrained.
The Allies remain strong, united, and resolute.
But the momentum of the continuing Soviet military buildup threatens both the conventional and the nuclear balance.
Consider the facts.
Over the past decade, the United States reduced the size of its Armed Forces and decreased its military spending.
The Soviets steadily increased the number of men under arms.
They now number more than double those of the United States.
Over the same period, the Soviets expanded their real military spending by about one-third.
The Soviet Union increased its inventory of tanks to some 50,000, compared to our 11,000.
Historically a land power, they transformed their navy from a coastal defense force to an open ocean fleet, while the United States, a sea power with transoceanic alliances, cut its fleet in half.
During a period when NATO deployed no new intermediate-range nuclear missiles and actually withdrew 1,000 nuclear warheads, the Soviet Union deployed more than 750 nuclear warheads on the new SS20 missiles alone.
Our response to this relentless buildup of Soviet military power has been restrained but firm.
We have made decisions to strengthen all three legs of the strategic triad: sea-, land-, and air-based.
We have proposed a defense program in the United States for the next 5 years which will remedy the neglect of the past decade and restore the eroding balance on which our security depends.
I would like to discuss more specifically the growing threat to Western Europe which is posed by the continuing deployment of certain Soviet intermediate-range nuclear missiles.
The Soviet Union has three different type such missile systems: the SS20, the SS-4, and the SS-5, all with the range capable of reaching virtually all of Western Europe.
There are other Soviet weapon systems which also represent a major threat.
Now, the only answer to these systems is a comparable threat to Soviet threats, to Soviet targets; in other words, a deterrent preventing the use of these Soviet weapons by the counterthreat of a like response against their own territory.
At present, however, there is no equivalent deterrent to these Soviet intermediate missiles.
And the Soviets continue to add one new SS-20 a week.
To counter this, the Allies agreed in 1979, as part of a two-track decision, to deploy as a deterrent land-based cruise missiles and Pershing II missiles capable of reaching targets in the Soviet Union.
These missiles are to be deployed in several countries of Western Europe.
This relatively limited force in no way serves as a substitute for the much larger strategic umbrella spread over our NATO Allies.
Rather, it provides a vital link between conventional shorter-range nuclear forces in Europe and intercontinental forces in the United States.
Deployment of these systems will demonstrate to the Soviet Union that this link cannot be broken.
Deterring war depends on the perceived ability of our forces to perform effectively.
The more effective our forces are, the less likely it is that we will have to use them.
So, we and our allies are proceeding to modernize NATO's nuclear forces of intermediate range to meet increased Soviet deployments of nuclear systems threatening Western Europe.
Let me turn now to our hopes for arms control negotiations.
There's a tendency to make this entire subject overly complex.
I want to be clear and concise.
I told you of the letter I wrote to President Brezhnev last April.
Well, I have just sent another message to the Soviet leadership.
It's a simple, straightforward, yet, historic message.
The United States proposes the mutual reduction of conventional intermediate-range nuclear and strategic forces.
Specifically, I have proposed a four-point agenda to achieve this objective in my letter to President Brezhnev.
The first and most important point concerns the Geneva negotiations.
As part of the 1979 two-track decision, NATO made a commitment to seek arms control negotiations with the Soviet Union on intermediate range nuclear forces.
The United States has been preparing for these negotiations through close consultation with our NATO partners.
We're now ready to set forth our proposal.
I have informed President Brezhnev that when our delegation travels to the negotiations on intermediate range, land-based nuclear missiles in Geneva on the 30th of this month, my representatives will present the following proposal: The United States is prepared to cancel its deployment of Pershing II and ground-launch cruise missiles if the Soviets will dismantle their SS-20, SS-4, and SS-5 missiles.
This would be an historic step.
With Soviet agreement, we could together substantially reduce the dread threat of nuclear war which hangs over the people of Europe.
This, like the first footstep on the Moon, would be a giant step for mankind.
Now, we intend to negotiate in good faith and go to Geneva willing to listen to and consider the proposals of our Soviet counterparts, but let me call to your attention the background against which our proposal is made.
During the past 6 years while the United States deployed no new intermediate-range missiles and withdrew 1,000 nuclear warheads from Europe, the Soviet Union deployed 750 warheads on mobile, accurate ballistic missiles.
They now have 1,100 warheads on the SS-20s, SS-4s and 5s.
And the United States has no comparable missiles.
Indeed, the United States dismantled the last such missile in Europe over 15 years ago.
As we look to the future of the negotiations, it is also important to address certain Soviet claims, which left unrefuted could become critical barriers to real progress in arms control.
The Soviets assert that a balance of intermediate range nuclear forces already exists.
That assertion is wrong.
By any objective measure, as this chart indicates, the Soviet Union has developed an increasingly overwhelming advantage.
They now enjoy a superiority on the order of six to one.
The red is the Soviet buildup; the blue is our own.
That is 1975, and that is 1981.
Now, Soviet spokesmen have suggested that moving their SS-20s behind the Ural Mountains will remove the threat to Europe.
Well, as this map demonstrates, the SS-20s, even if deployed behind the Urals, will have a range that puts almost all of Western Europe-the great cities-Rome, Athens, Paris, London, Brussels, Amsterdam, Berlin, and so many more-all of Scandinavia, all of the Middle East, all of northern Africa, all within range of these missiles which, incidentally, are mobile and can be moved on shorter notice.
These little images mark the present location which would give them a range clear out into the Atlantic.
The second proposal that I have made to President Brezhnev concerns strategic weapons.
The United States proposes to open negotiations on strategic arms as soon as possible next year.
I have instructed Secretary Haig to discuss the timing of such meetings with Soviet representatives.
Substance, however, is far more important than timing.
As our proposal for the Geneva talks this month illustrates, we can make proposals for genuinely serious reductions, but only if we take the time to prepare carefully.
The United States has been preparing carefully for resumption of strategic arms negotiations because we do not want a repetition of past disappointments.
We do not want an arms control process that sends hopes soaring only to end in dashed expectations.
Now, I have informed President Brezhnev that we will seek to negotiate substantial reductions in nuclear arms which would result in levels that are equal and verifiable.
Our approach to verification will be to emphasize openness and creativity, rather than the secrecy and suspicion which have undermined confidence in arms control in the past.
While we can hope to benefit from work done over the past decade in strategic arms negotiations, let us agree to do more than simply begin where these previous efforts left off.
We can and should attempt major qualitative and quantitative progress.
Only such progress can fulfill the hopes of our own people and the rest of the world.
And let us see how far we can go in achieving truly substantial reductions in our strategic arsenals.
To symbolize this fundamental change in direction, we will call these negotiations STABT-Strategic Arms Reduction Talks.
The third proposal I have made to the Soviet Union is that we act to achieve equality at lower levels of conventional forces in Europe.
The defense needs of the Soviet Union hardly call for maintaining more combat divisions in East Germany today than were in the whole Allied invasion force that landed in Normandy on D-Day.
The Soviet Union could make no more convincing contribution to peace in Europe, and in the world, than by agreeing to reduce its conventional forces significantly and constrain the potential for sudden aggression.
Finally, I have pointed out to President Brezhnev that to maintain peace we must reduce the risks of surprise attack and the chance of war arising out of uncertainty or miscalculation.
I am renewing our proposal for a conference to develop effective measures that would reduce these dangers.
At the current Madrid meeting of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe, we are laying the foundation for a Western-proposed conference on disarmament in Europe.
This conference would discuss new measures to enhance stability and security in Europe.
Agreement in this conference is within reach.
I urge the Soviet Union to join us and many other nations who are ready to launch this important enterprise.
All of these proposals are based on the same fair-minded principles-substantial, militarily significant reduction in forces, equal ceilings for similar types of forces, and adequate provisions for verification.
My administration, our country, and I are committed to achieving arms reductions agreements based on these principles.
Today I have outlined the kinds of bold, equitable proposals which the world expects of us.
But we cannot reduce arms unilaterally.
Success can only come if the Soviet Union will share our commitment, if it will demonstrate that its often-repeated professions of concern for peace will be matched by positive action.
Preservation of peace in Europe and the pursuit of arms reduction talks are of fundamental importance.
But we must also help to bring peace and security to regions now torn by conflict, external intervention, and war.
The American concept of peace goes well beyond the absence of war.
We foresee a flowering of economic growth and individual liberty in a world at peace.
At the economic summit conference in Cancun, I met with the leaders of 21 nations and sketched out our approach to global economic growth.
We want to eliminate the barriers to trade and investment which hinder these critical incentives to growth, and we are working to develop new programs to help the poorest nations achieve self-sustaining growth.
And terms like peace and security, we have to say, have little meaning for the oppressed and the destitute.
They also mean little to the individual whose state has stripped him of human freedom and dignity.
Wherever there is oppression, we must strive for the peace and security of individuals as well as states.
We must recognize that progress and the pursuit of liberty is a necessary complement to military security.
Nowhere has this fundamental truth been more boldly and clearly stated than in the Helsinki Accords of 1975.
These accords have not yet been translated into living reality.
Today I have announced an agenda that can help to achieve peace, security, and freedom across the globe.
In particular, I have made an important offer to forego entirely deployment of new American missiles in Europe if the Soviet Union is prepared to respond on an equal footing.
There is no reason why people in any part of the world should have to live in permanent fear of war or its spectre.
I believe the time has come for all nations to act in a responsible spirit that does not threaten other states.
I believe the time is right to move forward on arms control and the resolution of critical regional disputes at the conference table.
Nothing will have a higher priority for me and for the American people over the coming months and years.
Addressing the United Nations 20 years ago, another American President described the goal that we still pursue today.
He said, If we all can persevere, if we can look beyond our shores and ambitions, then surely the age will dawn in which the strong are just and the weak secure and the peace preserved.
He did not live to see that goal achieved.
I invite all nations to join with America today in the quest for such a world.
Thank you.
Good evening.
At Christmas time, every home takes on a special beauty, a special warmth, and that is certainly true of the White House, where so many famous Americans have spent their Christmases over the years.
This fine old home, the people's house, has seen so much, been so much a part of all our lives and history.
It's been humbling and inspiring for Nancy and me to be spending our first Christmas in this place.
We've lived here as your tenants for almost a year now, and what a year it is been.
As a people we have been through quite a lot  moments of joy, of tragedy, and of real achievement  moments that I believe have brought us all closer together.
G.
K.
Chesterton once said that the world would never starve for wonders, but only for the want of wonder.
At this special time of year, we all renew our sense of wonder in recalling the story of the first Christmas in Bethlehem, nearly 2,000 year ago.
Some celebrate Christmas as the birthday of a great and good philosopher and teacher.
Others of us believe in the divinity of the child born in Bethlehem, that he was and is the promised Prince of Peace.
Yes, we have questioned why he who could perform miracles chose to come among us as a helpless babe, but maybe that was his first miracle, his first great lesson that we should learn to care for one another.
Tonight, in millions of American homes, the glow of the Christmas tree is a reflection of the love Jesus taught us.
Like the shepherds and wise men of that first Christmas, we Americans have always tried to follow a higher light, a star, if you will.
At lonely campfire vigils along the frontier, in the darkest days of the Great Depression, through war and peace, the twin beacons of faith and freedom have brightened the American sky.
At times our footsteps may have faltered, but trusting in God's help, we have never lost our way.
Just across the way from the White House stand the two great emblems of the holiday season: a Menorah, symbolizing the Jewish festival of Hanukkah, and the National Christmas Tree, a beautiful towering blue spruce from Pennsylvania.
Like the National Christmas Tree, our country is a living, growing thing planted in rich American soil.
Only our devoted care can bring it to full flower.
So, let this holiday season be for us a time of rededication.
Even as we rejoice, however, let us remember that for some Americans, this will not be as happy a Christmas as it should be.
I know a little of what they feel.
I remember one Christmas Eve during the Great Depression, my father opening what he thought was a Christmas greeting.
It was a notice that he no longer had a job.
Over the past year, we have begun the long, hard work of economic recovery.
Our goal is an America in which every citizen who needs and wants a job can get a job.
Our program for recovery has only been in place for 12 weeks now, but it is beginning to work.
With your help and prayers, it will succeed.
We're winning the battle against inflation, runaway government spending and taxation, and that victory will mean more economic growth, more jobs, and more opportunity for all Americans.
A few months before he took up residence in this house, one of my predecessors, John Kennedy, tried to sum up the temper of the times with a quote from an author closely tied to Christmas, Charles Dickens.
We were living, he said, in the best of times and the worst of times.
Well, in some ways that is even more true today.
The world is full of peril, as well as promise.
Too many of its people, even now, live in the shadow of want and tyranny.
As I speak to you tonight, the fate of a proud and ancient nation hangs in the balance.
For a thousand years, Christmas has been celebrated in Poland, a land of deep religious faith, but this Christmas brings little joy to the courageous Polish people.
They have been betrayed by their own government.
The men who rule them and their totalitarian allies fear the very freedom that the Polish people cherish.
They have answered the stirrings of liberty with brute force, killings, mass arrests, and the setting up of concentration camps.
Lech Walesa and other Solidarity leaders are imprisoned, their fate unknown.
Factories, mines, universities, and homes have been assaulted.
The Polish government has trampled underfoot solemn commitments to the UN Charter and the Helsinki accords.
It has even broken the Gdansk agreement of August 1980, by which the Polish government recognized the basic right of its people to form free trade unions and to strike.
The tragic events now occurring in Poland, almost two years to the day after the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan, have been precipitated by public and secret pressure from the Soviet Union.
It is no coincidence that Soviet Marshal Kulikov, chief of the Warsaw Pact forces, and other senior Red Army officers were in Poland while these outrages were being initiated.
And it is no coincidence that the martial law proclamations imposed in December by the Polish government were being printed in the Soviet Union in September.
The target of this depression  is the Solidarity Movement, but in attacking Solidarity its enemies attack an entire people.
Ten million of Poland's 36 million citizens are members of Solidarity.
Taken together with their families, they account for the overwhelming majority of the Polish nation.
By persecuting Solidarity, the Polish government wages war against its own people.
I urge the Polish government and its allies to consider the consequences of their actions.
How can they possibly justify using naked force to crush a people who ask for nothing more than the right to lead their own lives in freedom and dignity? Brute force may intimidate, but it cannot form the basis of an enduring society, and the ailing Polish economy cannot be rebuilt with terror tactics.
Poland needs cooperation between its government and its people, not military oppression.
If the Polish government will honor the commitments it has made to human rights in documents like the Gdansk agreement, we in America will gladly do our share to help the shattered Polish economy, just as we helped the countries of Europe after both World Wars.
It's ironic that we offered, and Poland expressed interest in accepting, our help after World War II The Soviet Union intervened then and refused to allow such help to Poland.
But if the forces of tyranny in Poland, and those who incite them from without, do not relent, they should prepare themselves for serious consequences.
Already, throughout the Free World, citizens have publicly demonstrated their support for the Polish people.
Our government, and those of our allies, have expressed moral revulsion at the police state tactics of Poland's oppressors.
The Church has also spoken out, in spite of threats and intimidation.
But our reaction cannot stop there.
I want emphatically to state tonight that if the outrages in Poland do not cease, we cannot and will not conduct business as usual with the perpetrators and those who aid and abet them.
Make no mistake, their crime will cost them dearly in their future dealings with America and free peoples everywhere.
I do not make this statement lightly or without serious reflection.
We have been measured and deliberate in our reaction to the tragic events in Poland.
We have not acted in haste, and the steps I will outline tonight and others we may take in the days ahead are firm, just, and reasonable.
In order to aid the suffering Polish people during this critical period, we will continue the shipment of food through private humanitarian channels, but only so long as we know that the Polish people themselves receive the food.
The neighboring country of Austria has opened her doors to refugees from Poland.
I have therefore directed that American assistance, including supplies of basic foodstuffs, be offered to aid the Austrians in providing for these refugees.
But to underscore our fundamental opposition to the repressive actions taken by the Polish government against its own people, the administration has suspended all government-sponsored shipments of agricultural and dairy products to the Polish government.
This suspension will remain in force until absolute assurances are received that distribution of these products is monitored and guaranteed by independent agencies.
We must be sure that every bit of food provided by America goes to the Polish people, not to their oppressors.
The United States is taking immediate action to suspend major elements of our economic relationships with the Polish government.
We have halted the renewal of the Export-Import Bank's line of export credit insurance to the Polish government.
We will suspend Polish civil aviation privileges in the United States.
We are suspending the right of Poland's fishing fleet to operate in American waters.
And we are proposing to our allies the further restriction of high technology exports to Poland.
These actions are not directed against the Polish people.
They are a warning to the government of Poland that free men cannot and will not stand idly by in the face of brutal repression.
To underscore this point, I have written a letter to General Jaruzelski, head of the Polish government.
In it, I outlined the steps we are taking and warned of the serious consequences if the Polish government continues to use violence against its populace.
I have urged him to free those in arbitrary detention, to lift martial law, and to restore the internationally recognized rights of the Polish people to free speech and association.
The Soviet Union, through its threats and pressures, deserves a major share of blame for the developments in Poland.
So, I have also sent a letter to President Brezhnev urging him to permit the restoration of basic human rights in Poland provided for in the Helsinki Final Act.
In it, I informed him that if this repression continues, the United States will have no choice but to take further concrete political and economic measures affecting our relationship.
When 19th century Polish patriots rose against foreign oppressors, their rallying cry was, For our freedom and yours.
Well, that motto still rings true in our time.
There is a spirit of solidarity abroad in the world tonight that no physical force can crush.
It crosses national boundaries and enters into the hearts of men and women everywhere.
In factories, farms, and schools, in cities and towns around the globe, we the people of the Free World stand as one with our Polish brothers and sisters.
Their cause is ours, and our prayers and hopes go out to them this Christmas.
Yesterday, I met in this very room with Romuald Spasowski, the distinguished former Polish Ambassador who has sought asylum in our country in protest of the suppression of his native land.
He told me that one of the ways the Polish people have demonstrated their solidarity in the face of martial law is by placing lighted candles in their windows to show that the light of liberty still glows in their hearts.
Ambassador Spasowski requested that on Christmas Eve a lighted candle will burn in the White House window as a small but certain beacon of our solidarity with the Polish people.
I urge all of you to do the same tomorrow night, on Christmas Eve, as a personal statement of your commitment to the steps we are taking to support the brave people of Poland in their time of troubles.
Once, earlier in this century, an evil influence threatened that the lights were going out all over the world.
Let the light of millions of candles in American homes give notice that the light of freedom is not going to be extinguished.
We are blessed with a freedom and abundance denied to so many.
Let those candles remind us that these blessings bring with them a solid obligation, an obligation to the God who guides us, an obligation to the heritage of liberty and dignity handed down to us by our forefathers and an obligation to the children of the world, whose future will be shaped by the way we live our lives today.
Christmas means so much because of one special child.
But Christmas also reminds us that all children are special, that they are gifts from God, gifts beyond price that mean more than any presents money can buy.
In their love and laughter, in our hopes for their future lies the true meaning of Christmas.
So, in a spirit of gratitude for what we have been able to achieve together over the past year and looking forward to all that we hope to achieve together in the years ahead, Nancy and I want to wish you all the best of holiday seasons.
As Charles Dickens, whom I quoted a few moments ago, said so well in A Christmas Carol, God bless us, every one.
Good night.
Speaker,  President, distinguished Members of the Congress, honored guests, and fellow citizens:Today marks my first State of the Union address to you, a constitutional duty as old as our Republic itself.
President Washington began this tradition in 1790 after reminding the Nation that the destiny of self-government and the preservation of the sacred fire of liberty is finally staked on the experiment entrusted to the hands of the American people.
For our friends in the press, who place a high premium on accuracy, let me say: I did not actually hear George Washington say that.
But it is a matter of historic record.
But from this podium, Winston Churchill asked the free world to stand together against the onslaught of aggression.
Franklin Delano Roosevelt spoke of a day of infamy and summoned a nation to arms.
Douglas MacArthur made an unforgettable farewell to a country he loved and served so well.
Dwight Eisenhower reminded us that peace was purchased only at the price of strength.
And John F.
Kennedy spoke of the burden and glory that is freedom.
When I visited this Chamber last year as a newcomer to Washington, critical of past policies which I believed had failed, I proposed a new spirit of partnership between this Congress and this administration and between Washington and our State and local governments.
In forging this new partnership for America, we could achieve the oldest hopes of our Republic  prosperity for our nation, peace for the world, and the blessings of individual liberty for our children and, someday, for all of humanity.
It's my duty to report to you tonight on the progress that we have made in our relations with other nations, on the foundation we have carefully laid for our economic recovery, and finally, on a bold and spirited initiative that I believe can change the face of American government and make it again the servant of the people.
Seldom have the stakes been higher for America.
What we do and say here will make all the difference to autoworkers in Detroit, lumberjacks in the Northwest, steelworkers in Steubenville who are in the unemployment lines; to black teenagers in Newark and Chicago; to hard-pressed farmers and small businessmen; and to millions of everyday Americans who harbor the simple wish of a safe and financially secure future for their children.
To understand the state of the Union, we must look not only at where we are and where we are going but where we have been.
The situation at this time last year was truly ominous.
The last decade has seen a series of recessions.
There was a recession in 1970, in 1974, and again in the spring of 1980.
Each time, unemployment increased and inflation soon turned up again.
We coined the word stagflation to describe this.
Government's response to these recessions was to pump up the money supply and increase spending.
In the last 6 months of 1980, as an example, the money supply increased at the fastest rate in postwar history  13 percent.
Inflation remained in double digits, and government spending increased at an annual rate of 17 percent.
Interest rates reached a staggering 21.
5 percent.
There were 8 million unemployed.
Late in 1981 we sank into the present recession, largely because continued high interest rates hurt the auto industry and construction.
And there was a drop in productivity, and the already high unemployment increased.
This time, however, things are different.
We have an economic program in place, completely different from the artificial quick fixes of the past.
It calls for a reduction of the rate of increase in government spending, and already that rate has been cut nearly in half.
But reduced spending the first and smallest phase of a 3-year tax rate reduction designed to stimulate the economy and create jobs.
Already interest rates are down to 15 3/4 percent, but they must still go lower.
Inflation is down from 12.
4 percent to 8.
9, and for the month of December it was running at an annualized rate of 5.
2 percent.
If we had not acted as we did, things would be far worse for all Americans than they are today.
Inflation, taxes, and interest rates would all be higher.
A year ago, Americans' faith in their governmental process was steadily declining.
Six out of 10 Americans were saying they were pessimistic about their future.
A new kind of defeatism was heard.
Some said our domestic problems were uncontrollable, that we had to learn to live with this seemingly endless cycle of high inflation and high unemployment.
There were also pessimistic predictions about the relationship between our administration and this Congress.
It was said we could never work together.
Well, those predictions were wrong.
The record is clear, and I believe that history will remember this as an era of American renewal, remember this administration as an administration of change, and remember this Congress as a Congress of destiny.
Together, we not only cut the increase in government spending nearly in half, we brought about the largest tax reductions and the most sweeping changes in our tax structure since the beginning of this century.
And because we indexed future taxes to the rate of inflation, we took away government's built-in profit on inflation and its hidden incentive to grow larger at the expense of American workers.
-Together, after 50 years of taking power away from the hands of the people in their States and local communities, we have started returning power and resources to them.
Together, we have cut the growth of new Federal regulations nearly in half.
In 1981 there were 23,000 fewer pages in the Federal Register, which lists new regulations, than there were in 1980.
By deregulating oil we have come closer to achieving energy independence and helped bring down the cost of gasoline and heating fuel.
Together, we have created an effective Federal strike force to combat waste and fraud in government.
In just 6 months it has saved the taxpayers more than $2 billion, and it is only getting started.
Together we have begun to mobilize the private sector, not to duplicate wasteful and discredited government programs, but to bring thousands of Americans into a volunteer effort to help solve many of America's social problems.
Together we have begun to restore that margin of military safety that ensures peace.
Our country's uniform is being worn once again with pride.
Together we have made a New Beginning, but we have only begun.
No one pretends that the way ahead will be easy.
In my Inaugural Address last year, I warned that the ills we suffer have come upon us over several decades.
They will not go away in days, weeks, or months, but they will go away.
because we as Americans have the capacity now, as we have had it in the past, to do whatever needs to be done to preserve this last and greatest bastion of freedom.
'The economy will face difficult moments in the months ahead.
But the program for economic recovery that is in place will pull the economy out of its slump and put us on the road to prosperity and stable growth by the latter half of this year.
And that is why I can report to you tonight that in the near future the state of the Union and the economy will be better  much better  if we summon the strength to continue on the course that we have charted.
And so, the question: If the fundamentals are in place, what now? Well, two things.
First, we must understand what is happening at the moment to the economy.
Our current problems are not the product of the recovery program that is only just now getting underway, as some would have you believe; they are the inheritance of decades of tax and tax and spend and spend.
Second, because our economic problems are deeply rooted and will not respond to quick political fixes, we must stick to our carefully integrated plan for recovery.
That plan is based on four commonsense fundamentals: continued reduction of the growth in Federal spending; preserving the individual and business tax reductions that will stimulate saving and investment; removing unnecessary Federal regulations to spark productivity; and maintaining a healthy dollar and a stable monetary policy, the latter a responsibility of the Federal Reserve System.
The only alternative being offered to this economic program is a return to the policies that gave us a trillion-dollar debt, runaway inflation, runaway interest rates and unemployment.
The doubters would have us turn back the clock with tax increases that would offset the personal tax rate reductions already passed by this Congress.
Raise present taxes to cut future deficits, they tell us.
Well, I do not believe we should buy that argument.
There are too many imponderables for anyone to predict deficits or surpluses several years ahead with any degree of accuracy.
The budget in place, when I took office, had been projected as balanced.
It turned out to have one of the biggest deficits in history.
Another example of the imponderables that can make deficit projections highly questionable  a change of only one percentage point in unemployment can alter a deficit up or down by some $25 billion.
As it now stands, our forecast, which we are required by law to make, will show major deficits starting at less than a hundred billion dollars and declining, but still too high.
More important, we are making progress with the three keys to reducing deficits: economic growth, lower interest rates, and spending control.
The policies we have in place will reduce the deficit steadily, surely, and in time, completely.
Higher taxes would not mean lower deficits.
If they did, how would we explain that tax revenues more than doubled just since 1976; yet in that same 6-year period we ran the largest series of deficits in our history.
In 1980 tax revenues increased by $54 billion, and in 1980 we had one of our all-time biggest deficits.
Raising taxes will not balance the budget; it will encourage more government spending and less private investment.
Raising taxes will slow economic growth, reduce production, and destroy future jobs, making it more difficult for those without jobs to find them and more likely that those who now have jobs could lose them.
So, I will not ask you to try to balance the budget on the backs of the American taxpayers.
I will seek no tax increases this year, and I have no intention of retreating from our basic program of tax relief.
I promise to bring the American people  to bring their tax rates down and to keep them down, to provide them incentives to rebuild our economy, to save, to invest in America's future.
I will stand by my word.
Tonight I am urging the American people: Seize these new opportunities to produce, to save, to invest, and together we will make this economy a mighty engine of freedom, hope, and prosperity again.
Now, the budget deficit this year will exceed our earlier expectations.
The recession did that.
It lowered revenues and increased costs.
To some extent, we are also victims of our own success.
We've brought inflation down faster than we thought we could, and in doing this, we have deprived government of those hidden revenues that occur when inflation pushes people into higher income tax brackets.
And the continued high interest rates last year cost the government about $5 billion more than anticipated.
We must cut out more nonessential government spending and rout out more waste, and we will continue our efforts to reduce the number of employees in the Federal work force by 75,000.
The budget plan I submit to you on February 8th will realize major savings by dismantling the Departments of Energy and Education and by eliminating ineffective subsidies for business.
We'll continue to redirect our resources to our two highest budget priorities  a strong national defense to keep America free and at peace and a reliable safety net of social programs for those who have contributed and those who are in need.
Contrary to some of the wild charges you may have heard, this administration has not and will not turn its back on America's elderly or America's poor.
Under the new budget, funding for social insurance programs will be more than double the amount spent only 6 years ago.
But it would be foolish to pretend that these or any programs cannot be made more efficient and economical.
The entitlement programs that make up our safety net for the truly needy have worthy goals and many deserving recipients.
We will protect them.
But there is only one way to see to it that these programs really help those whom they were designed to help.
And that is to bring their spiraling costs under control.
Today we face the absurd situation of a Federal budget with three-quarters of its expenditures routinely referred to as uncontrollable.
And a large part of this goes to entitlement programs.
Committee after committee of this Congress has heard witness after witness describe many of these programs as poorly administered and rife with waste and fraud.
Virtually every American who shops in a local supermarket is aware of the daily abuses that take place in the food stamp program, which has grown by 16,000 percent in the last 15 years.
Another example is Medicare and Medicaid  programs with worthy goals but whose costs have increased from 11.
2 billion to almost 60 billion, more than 5 times as much, in just 10 years.
Waste and fraud are serious problems.
Back in 1980 Federal investigators testified before one of your committees that corruption has permeated virtually every area of the Medicare and Medicaid health care industry.
One official said many of the people who are cheating the system were very confident that nothing was going to happen to them.
Well, something is going to happen.
Not only the taxpayers are defrauded; the people with real dependency on these programs are deprived of what they need, because available resources are going not to the needy, but to the greedy.
The time has come to control the uncontrollable.
In August we made a start.
I signed a bill to reduce the growth of these programs by $44 billion over the next 3 years while at the same time preserving essential services for the truly needy.
Shortly you will receive from me a message on further reforms we intend to install  some new, but others long recommended by your own congressional committees.
I ask you to help make these savings for the American taxpayer.
The savings we propose in entitlement programs will total some $63 billion over 4 Years and will, without affecting social t security, go a long way toward bringing Federal spending under control.
But do not be fooled by those who proclaim that spending cuts will deprive the elderly, the needy, and the helpless.
The.
Federal Government will still subsidize 95 million meals every day.
That's one out of seven of all the meals served in America.
Head Start, senior nutrition programs, and child welfare programs will not be cut from the levels we proposed last year.
More than one-half billion dollars has been proposed for minority business assistance.
And research at the National Institute of Health will be increased by over $100 million.
While meeting all these needs, we intend to plug unwarranted tax loopholes and strengthen the law which requires all large corporations to pay a minimum tax.
I am confident the economic program we have put into operation will protect the needy while it triggers a recovery that will benefit all Americans.
It will stimulate the economy, result in increased savings and provide capital for expansion, mortgages for homebuilding, and jobs for the unemployed.
Now that the essentials of that program are in place, our next major undertaking must be a program  just as bold, just as innovative  to make government again accountable to the people, to make our system of federalism work again.
Our citizens feel they have lost control of even the most basic decisions made about the essential services of government, such as schools, welfare, roads, and even garbage collection.
And they are right.
A maze of interlocking jurisdictions and levels of government confronts average citizens in trying to solve even the simplest of problems.
They do not know where to turn for answers, who to hold accountable, who to praise, who to blame, who to vote for or against.
The main reason for this is the overpowering growth of Federal grants-in-aid programs during the past few decades.
In 1960 the Federal Government had 132 categorical grant programs, costing $7 billion.
When I took office, there were approximately 500, costing nearly a hundred billion dollars  13 programs for energy, 36 for pollution control, 66 for social services, 90 for education.
And here in the Congress, it takes at least 166 committees just to try to keep track of them.
You know and I know that neither the President nor the Congress can properly oversee this jungle of grants-in-aid; indeed, the growth of these grants has led to the distortion in the vital functions of government.
As one Democratic Governor put it recently: The National Government should be worrying about arms control, not potholes.
The growth in these Federal programs has  in the words of one intergovernmental commission  made the Federal Government more pervasive, more intrusive, more unmanageable, more ineffective and costly, and above all, more  accountable.
Let's solve this problem with a single, bold stroke: the return of some $47 billion in Federal programs to State and local government, together with the means to finance them and a transition period of nearly 10 years to avoid unnecessary disruption.
I will shortly send this Congress a message describing this program.
I want to emphasize, however, that its full details will have been worked out only after close consultation with congressional, State, and local officials.
Starting in fiscal 1984, the Federal Government will assume full responsibility for the cost of the rapidly growing Medicaid program to go along with its existing responsibility for Medicare.
As part of a financially equal swap, the States will simultaneously take full responsibility for Aid to Families with Dependent Children and food stamps.
This will make welfare less costly and more responsive to genuine need, because it will be designed and administered closer to the grass roots and the people it serves.
In 1984 the Federal Government will apply the full proceeds from certain excise taxes to a grass roots trust fund that will belong in fair shares to the 50 States.
The total amount flowing into this fund will be $28 billion a year.
Over the next 4 years the States can use this money in either of two ways.
If they want to continue receiving Federal grants in such areas as transportation, education, and social services, they can use their trust fund money to pay for the grants.
Or to the extent they choose to forgo the Federal grant programs, they can use their trust fund money on their own for those or other purposes.
There will be a mandatory pass-through of part of these funds to local governments.
By 1988 the States will be in complete control of over 40 Federal grant programs.
The trust fund will start to phase out, eventually to disappear, and the excise taxes will be turned over to the States.
They can then preserve, lower, or raise taxes on their own and fund and manage these programs as they see fit.
In a single stroke we will be accomplishing a realignment that will end cumbersome administration and spiraling costs at the Federal level while we ensure these programs will be more responsive to both the people they are meant to help and the people who pay for them.
Hand in hand with this program to strengthen the discretion and flexibility of State and local governments, we are proposing legislation for an experimental effort to improve and develop our depressed urban areas in the 1980's and '90's.
This legislation will permit States and localities to apply to the Federal Government for designation as urban enterprise zones.
A broad range of special economic incentives in the zones will help attract new business, new jobs, new opportunity to America's inner cities and rural towns.
Some will say our mission is to save free enterprise.
Well, I say we must free enterprise so that together we can save America.
Some will also say our States and local communities are not up to the challenge of a new and creative partnership.
Well, that might have been true 20 years ago before reforms like reapportionment and the Voting Rights Act, the 10-year extension of which I strongly support.
It's no longer true today.
This administration has faith in State and local governments and the constitutional balance envisioned by the Founding Fathers.
We also believe in the integrity, decency, and sound, good sense of grass roots Americans.
Our faith in the American people is reflected in another major endeavor.
Our private sector initiatives task force is seeking out successful community models of school, church, business, union, foundation, and civic programs that help community needs.
Such groups are almost invariably far more efficient than government in running social programs.
We're not asking them to replace discarded and often discredited government programs dollar for dollar, service for service.
We just want to help them perform the good works they choose and help others to profit by their example.
Three hundred and eighty-five thousand corporations and private organizations are already working on social programs ranging from drug rehabilitation to job training, and thousands more Americans have written us asking how they can help.
The volunteer spirit is still alive and well in America.
Our nation's long journey towards civil rights for all our citizens  once a source of discord, now a source of pride  must continue with no backsliding or slowing down.
We must and shall see that those basic laws that guarantee equal rights are preserved and, when necessary, strengthened.
Our concern for equal rights for women is firm and unshakable.
We launched a new Task Force on Legal Equity for Women and a Fifty States Project that will examine State laws for discriminatory language.
And for the first time in our history, a woman sits on the highest court in the land.
So, too, the problem of crime  one as real and deadly serious as any in America today.
It demands that we seek transformation of our legal system, which overly protects the rights of criminals while it leaves society and the innocent victims of crime without justice.
We look forward to the enactment of a responsible clean air act to increase jobs while continuing to improve the quality of our air.
We're encouraged by the bipartisan initiative of the House and are hopeful of further progress as the Senate continues its deliberations.
So far, I have concentrated largely, now, on domestic matters.
To view the state of the Union in perspective, we must not ignore the rest of the world.
There is not time tonight for a lengthy treatment of social  or foreign policy, I should say, a subject I intend to address in detail in the near future.
A few words, however, are in order on the progress we have made over the past year, reestablishing respect for our nation around the globe and some of the challenges and goals that we will approach in the year ahead.
At Ottawa and Cancun, I met with leaders of the major industrial powers and developing nations.
Now, some of those I met with were a little surprised that I did not apologize for America's wealth.
Instead, I spoke of the strength of the free marketplace system and how that system could help them realize their aspirations for economic development and political freedom.
I believe lasting friendships were made, and the foundation was laid for future cooperation.
In the vital region of the Caribbean Basin, we are developing a program of aid, trade, and investment incentives to promote self-sustaining growth and a better, more secure life for our neighbors to the south.
Toward those who would export terrorism and subversion in the Caribbean and elsewhere, especially Cuba and Libya, we will act with firmness.
Our foreign policy is a policy of strength, fairness, and balance.
By restoring America's military credibility, by pursuing peace at the negotiating table wherever both sides are willing to sit down in good faith, and by regaining the respect of America's allies and adversaries alike, we have strengthened our country's position as a force for peace and progress in the world.
When action is called for, we are taking it.
Our sanctions against the military dictatorship that has attempted to crush human rights in Poland  and against the Soviet regime behind that military dictatorship-clearly demonstrated to the world that America will not conduct business as usual with the forces of oppression.
If the events in Poland continue to deteriorate, further measures will follow.
Now, let me also note that private American groups have taken the lead in making January 30th a day of solidarity with the people of Poland.
So, too, the European Parliament has called for March 21st to be an international day of support for Afghanistan.
Well, I urge all peace-loving peoples to join together on those days, to raise their voices, to speak and pray for freedom.
Meanwhile, we are working for reduction of arms and military activities, as I announced in my address to the Nation last November 18th.
We have proposed to the Soviet Union a far-reaching agenda for mutual reduction of military forces and have already initiated negotiations with them in Geneva on intermediate-range nuclear forces.
In those talks it is essential that we negotiate from a position of strength.
There must be a real incentive for the Soviets to take these talks seriously.
This requires that we rebuild our defenses.
In the last decade, while we sought the moderation of Soviet power through a process of restraint and accommodation, the Soviets engaged in an unrelenting buildup of their military forces.
The protection of our national security has required that we undertake a substantial program to enhance our military forces.
We have not neglected to strengthen our traditional alliances in Europe and Asia, or to develop key relationships with our partners in the Middle East and other countries.
Building a more peaceful world requires a sound strategy and the national resolve to back it up.
When radical forces threaten our friends, when economic misfortune creates conditions of instability, when strategically vital parts of the world fall under the shadow of Soviet power, our response can make the difference between peaceful change or disorder and violence.
That's why we have laid such stress not only on our own defense but on our vital foreign assistance program.
Your recent passage of the Foreign Assistance Act sent a signal to the world that America will not shrink from making the investments necessary for both peace and security.
Our foreign policy must be rooted in realism, not naivete or self-delusion.
A recognition of what the Soviet empire is about is the starting point.
Winston Churchill, in negotiating with the Soviets, observed that they respect only strength and resolve in their dealings with other nations.
That's why we have moved to reconstruct our national defenses.
We intend to keep the peace.
We will also keep our freedom.
We have made pledges of a new frankness in our public statements and worldwide broadcasts.
In the face of a climate of falsehood and misinformation, we have promised the world a season of truth  the truth of our great civilized ideas: individual liberty, representative government, the rule of law under God.
We've never needed walls or minefields or barbed wire to keep our people in.
Nor do we declare martial law to keep our people from voting for the kind of government they want.
Yes, we have our problems; yes, we are in a time of recession.
And it is true, there is no quick fix, as I said, to instantly end the tragic pain of unemployment.
But we will end it.
The process has already begun, and we will see its effect as the year goes on.
We speak with pride and admiration of that little band of Americans who overcame insuperable odds to set this nation on course 200 years ago.
But our glory did not end with them.
Americans ever since have emulated their deeds.
We do not have to turn to our history books for heroes.
They're all around us.
One who sits among you here tonight epitomized that heroism at the end of the longest imprisonment ever inflicted on men of our Armed Forces.
Who will ever forget that night when we waited for television to bring us the scene of that first plane landing at Clark Field in the Philippines, bringing our POW's home? The plane door opened and Jeremiah Denton came slowly down the ramp.
He caught sight of our flag, saluted it, said, God bless America, and then thanked us for bringing him home.
Just 2 weeks ago, in the midst of a terrible tragedy on the Potomac, we saw again the spirit of American heroism at its finest  the heroism of dedicated rescue workers saving crash victims from icy waters.
And we saw the heroism of one of our young government employees, Lenny Skutnik, who, when he saw a woman lose her grip on the helicopter line, dived into the water and dragged her to safety.
And then there are countless, quiet, everyday heroes of American who sacrifice long and hard so their children will know a better life than they have known; church and civic volunteers who help to feed, clothe, nurse, and teach the needy; millions who have made our nation and our nation's destiny so very special-unsung heroes who may not have realized their own dreams themselves but then who reinvest those dreams in their children.
Don't let anyone tell you that America's best days are behind her, that the American spirit has been vanquished.
We've seen it triumph too often in our lives to stop believing in it now.
A hundred and twenty years ago, the greatest of all our Presidents delivered his second State of the Union message in this Chamber.
We cannot escape history, Abraham Lincoln warned.
We of this Congress and this administration will be remembered in spite of ourselves.
The trial through which we pass will light us down, in honor or dishonor, to the latest  generation.
Well, that President and that Congress did not fail the American people.
Together they weathered the storm and preserved the Union.
Let it be said of us that we, too, did not fail; that we, too, worked together to bring America through difficult times.
Let us so conduct ourselves that two centuries from now, another Congress and another President, meeting in this Chamber as we are meeting, will speak of us with pride, saying that we met the test and preserved for them in their day the sacred flame of liberty  this last, best hope of man on Earth.
God bless you, and thank you.
My Lord Chancellor,  Speaker:The journey of which this visit forms a part is a long one.
Already it has taken me to two great cities of the West, Rome and Paris, and to the economic summit at Versailles.
And there, once again, our sister democracies have proved that even in a time of severe economic strain, free peoples can work together freely and voluntarily to address problems as serious as inflation, unemployment, trade, and economic development in a spirit of cooperation and solidarity.
Other milestones lie ahead.
Later this week, in Germany, we and our NATO allies will discuss measures for our joint defense and America's latest initiatives for a more peaceful, secure world through arms reductions.
Each stop of this trip is important, but among them all, this moment occupies a special place in my heart and in the hearts of my countrymen  a moment of kinship and homecoming in these hallowed halls.
Speaking for all Americans, I want to say how very much at home we feel in your house.
Every American would, because this is, as we have been so eloquently told, one of democracy's shrines.
Here the rights of free people and the processes of representation have been debated and refined.
It has been said that an institution is the lengthening shadow of a man.
This institution is the lengthening shadow of all the men and women who have sat here and all those who have voted to send representatives here.
This is my second visit to Great Britain as President of the United States.
My first opportunity to stand on British soil occurred almost a year and a half ago when your Prime Minister graciously hosted a diplomatic dinner at the British Embassy in Washington.
Thatcher said then that she hoped I was not distressed to find staring down at me from the grand staircase a portrait of His Royal Majesty King George III She suggested it was best to let bygones be bygones, and in view of our two countries' remarkable friendship in succeeding years, she added that most Englishmen today would agree with Thomas Jefferson that a little rebellion now and then is a very good thing.
Well, from here I will go to Bonn and then Berlin, where there stands a grim symbol of power untamed.
The Berlin Wall, that dreadful gray gash across the city, is in its third decade.
It is the fitting signature of the regime that built it.
And a few hundred kilometers behind the Berlin Wall, there is another symbol.
In the center of Warsaw, there is a sign that notes the distances to two capitals.
In one direction it points toward Moscow.
In the other it points toward Brussels, headquarters of Western Europe's tangible unity.
The marker says that the distances from Warsaw to Moscow and Warsaw to Brussels are equal.
The sign makes this point: Poland is not East or West.
Poland is at the center of European civilization.
It has contributed mightily to that civilization.
It is doing so today by being magnificently unreconciled to oppression.
Poland's struggle to be Poland and to secure the basic rights we often take for granted demonstrates why we dare not take those rights for granted.
Gladstone, defending the Reform Bill of 1866, declared, You cannot fight against the future.
Time is on our side.
It was easier to believe in the march of democracy in Gladstone's day  in that high noon of Victorian optimism.
We're approaching the end of a bloody century plagued by a terrible political invention  totalitarianism.
Optimism comes less easily today, not because democracy is less vigorous, but because democracy's enemies have refined their instruments of repression.
Yet optimism is in order, because day by day democracy is proving itself to be a not-at-all-fragile flower.
From Stettin on the Baltic to Varna on the Black Sea, the regimes planted by totalitarianism have had more than 30 years to establish their legitimacy.
But none  not one regime  has yet been able to risk free elections.
Regimes planted by bayonets do not take root.
The strength of the Solidarity movement in Poland demonstrates the truth told in an underground joke in the Soviet Union.
It is that the Soviet Union would remain a one-party nation even if an opposition party were permitted, because everyone would join the opposition party.
America's time as a player on the stage of world history has been brief.
I think understanding this fact has always made you patient with your younger cousins  well, not always patient.
I do recall that on one occasion, Sir Winston Churchill said in exasperation about one of our most distinguished diplomats: He is the only case I know of a bull who carries his china shop with him.
But witty as Sir Winston was, he also had that special attribute of great statesmen  the gift of vision, the willingness to see the future based on the experience of the past.
It is this sense of history, this understanding of the past that I want to talk with you about today, for it is in remembering what we share of the past that our two nations can make common cause for the future.
We have not inherited an easy world.
If developments like the Industrial Revolution, which began here in England, and the gifts of science and technology have made life much easier for us, they have also made it more dangerous.
There are threats now to our freedom, indeed to our very existence, that other generations could never even have imagined.
There is first the threat of global war.
No President, no Congress, no Prime Minister, no Parliament can spend a day entirely free of this threat.
And I do not have to tell you that in today's world the existence of nuclear weapons could mean, if not the extinction of mankind, then surely the end of civilization as we know it.
That's why negotiations on intermediate-range nuclear forces now underway in Europe and the START talks  Strategic Arms Reduction Talks  which will begin later this month, are not just critical to American or Western policy; they are critical to mankind.
Our commitment to early success in these negotiations is firm and unshakable, and our purpose is clear: reducing the risk of war by reducing the means of waging war on both sides.
At the same time there is a threat posed to human freedom by the enormous power of the modern state.
History teaches the dangers of government that overreaches  political control taking precedence over free economic growth, secret police, mindless bureaucracy, all combining to stifle individual excellence and personal freedom.
Now, I am aware that among us here and throughout Europe there is legitimate disagreement over the extent to which the public sector should play a role in a nation's economy and life.
But on one point all of us are united  our abhorrence of dictatorship in all its forms, but most particularly totalitarianism and the terrible inhumanities it has caused in our time  the great purge, Auschwitz and Dachau, the Gulag, and Cambodia.
Historians looking back at our time will note the consistent restraint and peaceful intentions of the West.
They will note that it was the democracies who refused to use the threat of their nuclear monopoly in the forties and early fifties for territorial or imperial gain.
Had that nuclear monopoly been in the hands of the Communist world, the map of Europe  indeed, the world would look very different today.
And certainly they will note it was not the democracies that invaded Afghanistan or supressed Polish Solidarity or used chemical and toxin warfare in Afghanistan and Southeast Asia.
If history teaches anything it teaches self-delusion in the face of unpleasant facts is folly.
We see around us today the marks of our terrible dilemma  predictions of doomsday, antinuclear demonstrations, an arms race in which the West must, for its own protection, be an unwilling participant.
At the same time we see totalitarian forces in the world who seek subversion and conflict around the globe to further their barbarous assault on the human spirit.
What, then, is our course? Must civilization perish in a hail of fiery atoms? Must freedom wither in a quiet, deadening accommodation with totalitarian evil?Sir Winston Churchill refused to accept the inevitability of war or even that it was imminent.
He said, I do not believe that Soviet Russia desires war.
What they desire is the fruits of war and the indefinite expansion of their power and doctrines.
But what we have to consider here today while time remains is the permanent prevention of war and the establishment of conditions of freedom and democracy as rapidly as possible in all countries.
Well, this is precisely our mission today: to preserve freedom as well as peace.
It may not be easy to see; but I believe we live now at a turning point.
In an ironic sense Karl Marx was right.
We are witnessing today a great revolutionary crisis, a crisis where the demands of the economic order are conflicting directly with those of the political order.
But the crisis is happening not in the free, non-Marxist West, but in the home of Marxist-Leninism, the Soviet Union.
It is the Soviet Union that runs against the tide of history by denying human freedom and human dignity to its citizens.
It also is in deep economic difficulty.
The rate of growth in the national product has been steadily declining since the fifties and is less than half of what it was then.
The dimensions of this failure are astounding: A country which employs one fifth of its population in agriculture is unable to feed its own people.
Were it not for the private sector, the tiny private sector tolerated in Soviet agriculture, the country might be on the brink of famine.
These private plots occupy a bare 3 percent of the arable land but account for nearly one-quarter of Soviet farm output and nearly one-third of meat products and vegetables.
Overcentralized, with little or no incentives, year after year the Soviet system pours its best resource into the making of instruments of destruction.
The constant shrinkage of economic growth combined with the growth of military production is putting a heavy strain on the Soviet people.
What we see here is a political structure that no longer corresponds to its economic base, a society where productive forces are hampered by political ones.
The decay of the Soviet experiment should come as no surprise to us.
Wherever the comparisons have been made between free and closed societies  West Germany and East Germany, Austria and Czechoslovakia, Malaysia and Vietnam  it is the democratic countries what are prosperous and responsive to the needs of their people.
And one of the simple but overwhelming facts of our time is this: Of all the millions of refugees we have seen in the modern world, their flight is always away from, not toward the Communist world.
Today on the NATO line, our military forces face east to prevent a possible invasion.
On the other side of the line, the Soviet forces also face east to prevent their people from leaving.
The hard evidence of totalitarian rule has caused in mankind an uprising of the intellect and will.
Whether it is the growth of the new schools of economics in America or England or the appearance of the so-called new philosophers in France, there is one unifying thread running through the intellectual work of these groups  rejection of the arbitrary power of the state, the refusal to subordinate the rights of the individual to the superstate, the realization that collectivism stifles all the best human impulses.
Since the exodus from Egypt, historians have written of those who sacrificed and struggled for freedom  the stand at Thermopylae, the revolt of Spartacus, the storming of the Bastille, the Warsaw uprising in World War II More recently we have seen evidence of this same human impulse in one of the developing nations in Central America.
For months and months the world news media covered the fighting in El Salvador.
Day after day we were treated to stories and film slanted toward the brave freedom-fighters battling oppressive government forces in behalf of the silent, suffering people of that tortured country.
And then one day those silent, suffering people were offered a chance to vote, to choose the kind of government they wanted.
Suddenly the freedom-fighters in the hills were exposed for what they really are  Cuban-backed guerrillas who want power for themselves, and their backers, not democracy for the people.
They threatened death to any who voted, and destroyed hundreds of buses and trucks to keep the people from getting to the polling places.
But on election day, the people of El Salvador, an unprecedented 1.
4 million of them, braved ambush and gunfire, and trudged for miles to vote for freedom.
They stood for hours in the hot sun waiting for their turn to vote.
Members of our Congress who went there as observers told me of a women who was wounded by rifle fire on the way to the polls, who refused to leave the line to have her wound treated until after she had voted.
A grandmother, who had been told by the guerrillas she would be killed when she returned from the polls, and she told the guerrillas, You can kill me, you can kill my family, kill my neighbors, but you cannot kill us all.
The real freedom-fighters of El Salvador turned out to be the people of that country  the young, the old, the in-between.
Strange, but in my own country there is been little if any news coverage of that war since the election.
Now, perhaps they will say it is  well, because there are newer struggles now.
On distant islands in the South Atlantic young men are fighting for Britain.
And, yes, voices have been raised protesting their sacrifice for lumps of rock and earth so far away.
But those young men are not fighting for mere real estate.
They fight for a cause  for the belief that armed aggression must not be allowed to succeed, and the people must participate in the decisions of government    the decisions of government under the rule of law.
If there had been firmer support for that principle some 45 years ago, perhaps our generation would not have suffered the bloodletting of World War IIIn the Middle East now the guns sound once more, this time in Lebanon, a country that for too long has had to endure the tragedy of civil war, terrorism, and foreign intervention and occupation.
The fighting in Lebanon on the part of all parties must stop, and Israel should bring its forces home.
But this is not enough.
We must all work to stamp out the scourge of terrorism that in the Middle East makes war an ever-present threat.
But beyond the troublespots lies a deeper, more positive pattern.
Around the world today, the democratic revolution is gathering new strength.
In India a critical test has been passed with the peaceful change of governing political parties.
In Africa, Nigeria is moving into remarkable and unmistakable ways to build and strengthen its democratic institutions.
In the Caribbean and Central America, 16 of 24 countries have freely elected governments.
And in the United Nations, 8 of the 10 developing nations which have joined that body in the past 5 years are democracies.
In the Communist world as well, man's instinctive desire for freedom and self-determination surfaces again and again.
To be sure, there are grim reminders of how brutally the police state attempts to snuff out this quest for self-rule  1953 in East Germany, 1956 in Hungary, 1968 in Czechoslovakia, 1981 in Poland.
But the struggle continues in Poland.
And we know that there are even those who strive and suffer for freedom within the confines of the Soviet Union itself.
How we conduct ourselves here in the Western democracies will determine whether this trend continues.
No, democracy is not a fragile flower.
Still it needs cultivating.
If the rest of this century is to witness the gradual growth of freedom and democratic ideals, we must take actions to assist the campaign for democracy.
Some argue that we should encourage democratic change in right-wing dictatorships, but not in Communist regimes.
Well, to accept this preposterous notion  as some well-meaning people have  is to invite the argument that once countries achieve a nuclear capability, they should be allowed an undisturbed reign of terror over their own citizens.
We reject this course.
As for the Soviet view, Chairman Brezhnev repeatedly has stressed that the competition of ideas and systems must continue and that this is entirely consistent with relaxation of tensions and peace.
Well, we ask only that these systems begin by living up to their own constitutions, abiding by their own laws, and complying with the international obligations they have undertaken.
We ask only for a process, a direction, a basic code of decency, not for an instant transformation.
We cannot ignore the fact that even without our encouragement there has been and will continue to be repeated explosions against repression and dictatorships.
The Soviet Union itself is not immune to this reality.
Any system is inherently unstable that has no peaceful means to legitimize its leaders.
In such cases, the very repressiveness of the state ultimately drives people to resist it, if necessary, by force.
While we must be cautious about forcing the pace of change, we must not hesitate to declare our ultimate objectives and to take concrete actions to move toward them.
We must be staunch in our conviction that freedom is not the sole prerogative of a lucky few, but the inalienable and universal right of all human beings.
So states the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which, among other things, guarantees free elections.
The objective I propose is quite simple to state: to foster the infrastructure of democracy, the system of a free press, unions, political parties, universities, which allows a people to choose their own way to develop their own culture, to reconcile their own differences through peaceful means.
This is not cultural imperialism, it is providing the means for genuine self-determination and protection for diversity.
Democracy already flourishes in countries with very different cultures and historical experiences.
It would be cultural condescension, or worse, to say that any people prefer dictatorship to democracy.
Who would voluntarily choose not to have the right to vote, decide to purchase government propaganda handouts instead of independent newspapers, prefer government to worker-controlled unions, opt for land to be owned by the state instead of those who till it, want government repression of religious liberty, a single political party instead of a free choice, a rigid cultural orthodoxy instead of democratic tolerance and diversity?Since 1917 the Soviet Union has given covert political training and assistance to Marxist-Leninists in many countries.
Of course, it also has promoted the use of violence and subversion by these same forces.
Over the past several decades, West European and other Social Democrats, Christian Democrats, and leaders have offered open assistance to fraternal, political, and social institutions to bring about peaceful and democratic progress.
Appropriately, for a vigorous new democracy, the Federal Republic of Germany's political foundations have become a major force in this effort.
We in America now intend to take additional steps, as many of our allies have already done, toward realizing this same goal.
The chairmen and other leaders of the national Republican and Democratic Party organizations are initiating a study with the bipartisan American political foundation to determine how the United States can best contribute as a nation to the global campaign for democracy now gathering force.
They will have the cooperation of congressional leaders of both parties, along with representatives of business, labor, and other major institutions in our society.
I look forward to receiving their recommendations and to working with these institutions and the Congress in the common task of strengthening democracy throughout the world.
It is time that we committed ourselves as a nation  in both the public and private sectors  to assisting democratic development.
We plan to consult with leaders of other nations as well.
There is a proposal before the Council of Europe to invite parliamentarians from democratic countries to a meeting next year in Strasbourg.
That prestigious gathering could consider ways to help democratic political movements.
This November in Washington there will take place an international meeting on free elections.
And next spring there will be a conference of world authorities on constitutionalism and self-goverment hosted by the Chief Justice of the United States.
Authorities from a number of developing and developed countries  judges, philosophers, and politicians with practical experience  have agreed to explore how to turn principle into practice and further the rule of law.
At the same time, we invite the Soviet Union to consider with us how the competition of ideas and values  which it is committed to support  can be conducted on a peaceful and reciprocal basis.
For example, I am prepared to offer President Brezhnev an opportunity to speak to the American people on our television if he will allow me the same opportunity with the Soviet people.
We also suggest that panels of our newsmen periodically appear on each other's television to discuss major events.
Now, I do not wish to sound overly optimistic, yet the Soviet Union is not immune from the reality of what is going on in the world.
It has happened in the past  a small ruling elite either mistakenly attempts to ease domestic unrest through greater repression and foreign adventure, or it chooses a wiser course.
It begins to allow its people a voice in their own destiny.
Even if this latter process is not realized soon, I believe the renewed strength of the democratic movement, complemented by a global campaign for freedom, will strengthen the prospects for arms control and a world at peace.
I have discussed on other occasions, including my address on May 9th, the elements of Western policies toward the Soviet Union to safeguard our interests and protect the peace.
What I am describing now is a plan and a hope for the long term  the march of freedom and democracy which will leave Marxism-Leninism on the ash-heap of history as it has left other tyrannies which stifle the freedom and muzzle the self-expression of the people.
And that is why we must continue our efforts to strengthen NATO even as we move forward with our Zero-Option initiative in the negotiations on intermediate-range forces and our proposal for a one-third reduction in strategic ballistic missile warheads.
Our military strength is a prerequisite to peace, but let it be clear we maintain this strength in the hope it will never be used, for the ultimate determinant in the struggle that is now going on in the world will not be bombs and rockets, but a test of wills and ideas, a trial of spiritual resolve, the values we hold, the beliefs we cherish, the ideals to which we are dedicated.
The British people know that, given strong leadership, time and a little bit of hope, the forces of good ultimately rally and triumph over evil.
Here among you is the cradle of self-government, the Mother of Parliaments.
Here is the enduring greatness of the British contribution to mankind, the great civilized ideas: individual liberty, representative government, and the rule of law under God.
I have often wondered about the shyness of some of us in the West about standing for these ideals that have done so much to ease the plight of man and the hardships of our imperfect world.
This reluctance to use those vast resources at our command reminds me of the elderly lady whose home was bombed in the Blitz.
As the rescuers moved about, they found a bottle of brandy she had stored behind the staircase, which was all that was left standing.
And since she was barely conscious, one of the workers pulled the cork to give her a taste of it.
She came around immediately and said, Here now  there now, put it back.
That's for emergencies.
Well, the emergency is upon us.
Let us be shy no longer.
Let us go to our strength.
Let us offer hope.
Let us tell the world that a new age is not only possible but probable.
During the dark days of the Second World War, when this island was incandescent with courage, Winston Churchill exclaimed about Britain's adversaries, What kind of a people do they think we are? Well, Britain's adversaries found out what extraordinary people the British are.
But all the democracies paid a terrible price for allowing the dictators to underestimate us.
We dare not make that mistake again.
So, let us ask ourselves, What kind of people do we think we are? And let us answer, Free people, worthy of freedom and determined not only to remain so but to help others gain their freedom as well.
Sir Winston led his people to great victory in war and then lost an election just as the fruits of victory were about to be enjoyed.
But he left office honorably, and, as it turned out, temporarily, knowing that the liberty of his people was more important than the fate of any single leader.
History recalls his greatness in ways no dictator will ever know.
And he left us a message of hope for the future, as timely now as when he first uttered it, as opposition leader in the Commons nearly 27 years ago, when he said, When we look back on all the perils through which we have passed and at the mighty foes that we have laid low and all the dark and deadly designs that we have frustrated, why should we fear for our future? We have, he said, come safely through the worst.
Well, the task I have set forth will long outlive our own generation.
But together, we too have come through the worst.
Let us now begin a major effort to secure the best  a crusade for freedom that will engage the faith and fortitude of the next generation.
For the sake of peace and justice, let us move toward a world in which all people are at last free to determine their own destiny.
Thank you.
President, Chancellor Schmidt, members of the Bundestag, distinguished guests:Perhaps because I have just come from London, I have this urge to quote the great  Johnson who said, The feeling of friendship is like that of being comfortably filled with roast beef.
Well, I feel very much filled with friendship this afternoon, and I bring you the warmest regards and goodwill of the American people.
I am very honored to speak to you today and, thus, to all the people of Germany.
Next year, we will jointly celebrate the 300th anniversary of the first German settlement in the American Colonies.
The 13 families who came to our new land were the forerunners of more than 7 million German immigrants to the United States.
Today, more Americans claim German ancestry than any other.
These Germans cleared and cultivated our land, built our industries, and advanced our arts and sciences.
In honor of 300 years of German contributions in America, President Carstens and I have agreed today that he will pay an official visit to the United States in October of 1983 to celebrate the occasion.
The German people have given us so much, we like to think that we have repaid some of that debt.
Our American Revolution was the first revolution in modern history to be fought for the right of self-government and the guarantee of civil liberties.
That spirit was contagious.
In 1849, the Frankfurt Parliament's statement of basic human rights guaranteed freedom of expression, freedom of religion, and equality before the law.
And these principles live today in the basic law of the Federal Republic.
Many peoples to the east still wait for such rights.
The United States is proud of your democracy, but we cannot take credit for it.
Heinrich Heine, in speaking of those who built the awe-inspiring cathedrals of medieval times, said that, In those days people had convictions.
We moderns have only opinions, and it requires something more than opinions, he said, to build a Gothic cathedral.
Well, over the past 30 years, the convictions of the German people have built a cathedral of democracy  a great and glorious testament to your ideals.
We in America genuinely admire the free society that you have built in only a few decades, and we understand all the better what you have accomplished because of our own history.
Americans speak with the deepest reverence of those Founding Fathers and first citizens who gave us the freedom that we enjoy today.
And even though they lived over 200 years ago, we carry them in our hearts as well as in our history books.
I believe future generations of Germans will look to you here today and to your fellow Germans with the same profound respect and appreciation.
You have built a free society with an abiding faith in human dignity-the crowning ideal of Western civilization.
This will not be forgotten.
You will be saluted and honored by this Republic's descendants over the centuries to come.
Yesterday, before the British Parliament, I spoke of the values of Western civilization and the necessity to help all peoples gain the institutions of freedom.
In many ways, in many places, our ideals are being tested today.
We are meeting this afternoon between two important summits  the gathering of leading industrial democracies at Versailles and the assembly of the Atlantic Alliance here in Bonn tomorrow.
Critical and complex problems face us, but our dilemmas will be made easier if we remember our partnership is based on a common Western heritage and a faith in democracy.
I believe this partnership of the Atlantic Alliance nations is motivated primarily by the search for peace  inner peace for our citizens and peace among nations.
Why inner peace? Because democracy allows for self-expression.
It respects man's dignity and creativity.
It operates by a rule of law, not by terror or coercion.
It is government with the consent of the governed.
As a result, citizens of the Atlantic Alliance enjoy an unprecedented level of material and spiritual well-being, and they are free to find their own personal peace.
We also seek peace among nations.
The Psalmist said, Seek peace and pursue it.
Well, our foreign policies are based on this principle and directed toward this end.
The noblest objective of our diplomacy is the patient and difficult task of reconciling our adversaries to peace.
And I know we all look forward to the day when the only industry of man 1 will be the research of historians.
But the simple hope for peace is not enough.
We must remember something that Friedrich Schiller said: The most pious man cannot stay in peace if it does not please his evil neighbor.
So, there must be a method to our search, a method that recognizes the dangers and realities of the world.
During Chancellor Schmidt's state visit to Washington last year, I said that your Republic was perched on a cliff of freedom.
I was not saying anything the German people do not already know.
Living as you do in the heart of a divided Europe, you can see more clearly than others that there are governments at peace neither with their own peoples nor the world.
I do not believe any reasonable observer can deny that there is a threat to both peace and freedom today.
It is as stark as that gash of a border that separates the German people.
We're menaced by a power that openly condemns our values and answers our restraint with a relentless military buildup.
We cannot simply assume every nation wants the peace that we so earnestly desire.
The Polish people would tell us there are those who would use military force to repress others who want only basic human rights.
The freedom fighters of Afghanistan would tell us as well that the threat of aggression has not receded from the world.
Without a strengthened Atlantic security, the possibility of military coercion will be very great.
We must continue to improve our defenses if we are to preserve peace and freedom.
This is.
Is there an echo in here? But this preserving peace and freedom is not an impossible task.
For almost 40 years, we have succeeded in deterring war.
Our method has been to organize our defensive capabilities, both nuclear and conventional, so that an aggressor could have no hope of military victory.
The Alliance has carried its strength not as a battle flag, but as a banner of peace.
Deterrence has kept that peace, and we must continue to take the steps necessary to make deterrence credible,This depends in part on a strong America.
A national effort, entailing sacrifices by the American people, is now underway to make long-overdue improvements in our military posture.
The American people support this effort because they understand how fundamental it is to keeping the peace they so fervently desire.
We also are resolved to maintain the presence of well-equipped and trained forces in Europe, and our strategic forces will be modernized and remain committed to the Alliance.
By these actions, the people of the United States are saying, We are with you Germany; you are not alone.
Our adversaries would be foolishly mistaken should they gamble that Americans would abandon their Alliance responsibilities, no matter how severe the test.
Alliance security depends on a fully credible conventional defense to which all allies contribute.
There is a danger that any conflict could escalate to a nuclear war.
Strong conventional forces can make the danger of conventional or nuclear conflict more remote.
Reasonable strength in and of itself is not bad; it is honorable when used to maintain peace or defend deeply held beliefs.
One of the first chores is to fulfill our commitments to each other by continuing to strengthen our conventional defenses.
This must include improving the readiness of our standing forces and the ability of those forces to operate as one.
We must also apply the West's technological genius to improving our conventional deterrence.
There can be no doubt that we as an Alliance have the means to improve our conventional defenses.
Our peoples hold values of individual liberty and dignity that time and again they have proven willing to defend.
Our economic energy vastly exceeds that of our adversaries.
Our free system has produced technological advances that other systems, with their stifling ideologies, cannot hope to equal.
All of these resources are available to our defense.
Yes, many of our nations currently are experiencing economic difficulties; yet we must nevertheless guarantee that our security does not suffer as a result.
We've made strides in conventional defense over the last few years despite our economic problems, and we have disproved the pessimists who contend that our efforts are futile.
The more we close the conventional gap, the less the risks of aggression or nuclear conflict.
The soil of Germany and of every other Ally is of vital concern to each member of the Alliance.
And this fundamental commitment is embodied in the North Atlantic Treaty.
But it will be an empty pledge unless we ensure that American forces are ready to reinforce Europe, and Europe is ready to receive them.
I am encouraged by the recent agreement on wartime host-nation support.
This pact strengthens our ability to deter aggression in Europe and demonstrates our common determination to respond to attack.
Just as each ally shares fully in the security of the Alliance, each is responsible for shouldering a fair share of the burden.
Now that, of course, often leads to a difference of opinion, and criticism of our Alliance is as old as the partnership itself.
But voices have now been raised on both sides of the Atlantic that mistake the inevitable process of adjustment within the Alliance for a dramatic divergence of interests.
Some Americans think that Europeans are too little concerned for their own security.
Some would unilaterally reduce the number of American troops deployed in Europe.
And in Europe itself, we hear the idea that the American presence, rather than contributing to peace, either has no deterrent value or actually increases the risk that our Allies may be attacked.
These arguments ignore both the history and the reality of the transatlantic coalition.
Let me assure you that the American commitment to Europe remains steady and strong.
Europe's shores are our shores.
Europe's borders are our borders.
And we will stand with you in defense of our heritage of liberty and dignity.
The American people recognize Europe's substantial contributions to our joint security.
Nowhere is that contribution more evident than here in the Federal Republic.
German citizens host the forces of six nations.
German soldiers and reservists provide the backbone of NATO's conventional deterrent in the heartland of Europe.
Your Bundeswehr is a model for the integration of defense needs with a democratic way of life, and you have not shrunk from the heavy responsibility of accepting the nuclear forces necessary for deterrence.
I ask your help in fulfilling another responsibility.
Many American citizens do not believe that their counterparts in Europe, especially younger citizens, really understand the United States presence there.
Now, if you will work toward explaining the U.
S.
role to people on this side of the Atlantic, I will explain it to those on the other side.
In recent months, both in your country and mine, there has been renewed public concern about the threat of nuclear war and the arms buildup.
I know it is not easy, especially for the German people, to live in the gale of intimidation that blows from the east.
If I might quote Heine again, he almost foretold the fears of nuclear war when he wrote, Wild, dark times are rumbling toward us, and the prophet who wishes to write a new apocalypse will have to invent entirely new beasts, and beasts so terrible that the ancient animal symbols will seem like cooing doves and cupids in comparison.
The nuclear threat is a terrible beast.
Perhaps the banner carried in one of the nuclear demonstrations here in Germany said it best.
The sign read, I am afraid.
Well, I know of no Western leader who does not sympathize with that earnest plea.
To those who march for peace, my heart is with you.
I would be at the head of your parade if I believed marching alone could bring about a more secure world.
And to the 2,800 women in Filderstadt who spent a petition for peace to President Brezhnev and me, let me say I, myself, would sign your petition if I thought it could bring about harmony.
I understand your genuine concerns.
The women of Filderstadt and I share the same goal.
The question is how to proceed.
We must think through the consequences of how we reduce the dangers to peace.
Those who advocate that we unilaterally forego the modernization of our forces must prove that this will enhance our security and lead to moderation by the other side-in short, that it will advance, rather than undermine, the preservation of the peace.
The weight of recent history does not support this notion.
Those who demand that we renounce the use of a crucial element of our deterrent strategy must show how this would decrease the likelihood of war.
It is only by Comparison with a nuclear war that the suffering caused by conventional war seems a lesser evil.
Our goal must be to deter war of any kind.
And those who decry the failure of arms control efforts to achieve substantial results must consider where the fault lies.
I would remind them that it is the United States that has proposed to ban land-based intermediate-range nuclear missiles-the missiles most threatening to Europe.
It is the United States that has proposed and will pursue deep cuts in strategic systems.
It is the West that has long sought the detailed exchanges of information on forces and effective verification procedures.
And it is dictatorships, not democracies, that need militarism to control their own people and impose their system on others.
To those who have taken a different viewpoint and who cannot see this danger, I do not suggest that they are ignorant, it is just that they know so many things that are not true.
We in the West  Germans, Americans, our other Allies  are deeply committed to continuing efforts to restrict the arms competition.
Common sense demands that we persevere.
I invite those who genuinely seek effective and lasting arms control to stand behind the far-reaching proposals that we have put forward.
In return, I pledge that we will sustain the closest of consultations with our Allies.
On November 18th, I outlined a broad and ambitious arms control program.
One element calls for reducing land-based intermediate-range nuclear missiles to zero on each side.
If carried out, it would eliminate the growing threat to Western Europe posed by the U.
SS R.
's modern SS-20 rockets, and it would make unnecessary the NATO decision to deploy American intermediate-range systems.
And, by the way, I cannot understand why among some, there is a greater fear of weapons NATO is to deploy than of weapons the Soviet Union already has deployed.
Our proposal is fair because it imposes equal limits and obligations on both sides, and it calls for significant reductions, not merely a capping of an existing high level of destructive power.
As you know, we have made this proposal in Geneva, where negotiations have been underway since the end of November last year.
We intend to pursue those negotiations intensively.
I regard them as a significant test of the Soviets' willingness to enter into meaningful arms control agreements.
On May 9th, we proposed to the Soviet Union that Strategic Arms Reductions Talks begin this month in Geneva.
The U.
SS R.
has agreed, and talks will begin on June 29th.
We in the United States want to focus on the most destabilizing systems, and thus reduce the risk of war.
And that is why in the first phase, we propose to reduce substantially the number of ballistic missile warheads and the missiles themselves.
In the second phase, we will seek an equal ceiling on other elements of our strategic forces, including ballistic missile throwweight, at less than current American levels.
We will handle cruise missiles and bombers in an equitable fashion.
We will negotiate in good faith and undertake these talks with the same seriousness of purpose that has marked our preparations over the last several months.
Another element of the program I outlined was a call for reductions in conventional forces in Europe.
From the earliest postwar years, the Western democracies have faced the ominous reality that massive Soviet conventional forces would remain stationed where they do not belong.
The muscle of Soviet forces in Central Europe far exceeds legitimate defense needs.
Their presence is made more threatening still by a military doctrine that emphasizes mobility and surprise attack.
And as history shows, these troops have built a legacy of intimidation and repression.
In response, the NATO allies must show they have the will and capacity to deter any conventional attack or any attempt to intimidate us.
Yet, we also will continue the search for responsible ways to reduce NATO and Warsaw Pact military personnel to equal levels.
In recent weeks, we in the Alliance have consulted on how best to invigorate the Vienna negotiations on Mutual and Balanced Force Reductions.
Based on these consultations, Western representatives in the Vienna talks soon will make a proposal by which the two alliances would reduce their respective ground force personnel in verifiable stages to a total of 700,000 men and their combined ground and air force personnel to a level of 900,000 men.
While the agreement would not eliminate the threat nor spare our citizens the task of maintaining a substantial defense force, it could constitute a major step toward a safer Europe for both East and West.
It could lead to military stability at lower levels and lessen the dangers of miscalculation and a surprise attack, and it also would demonstrate the political will of the two alliances to enhance stability by limiting their forces in the central area of their military competition.
The West has established a clear set of goals.
We, as an Alliance, will press forward with plans to improve our own conventional forces in Europe.
At the same time, we propose an arms control agreement to equalize conventional forces at a significantly lower level.
We will move ahead with our preparations to modernize our nuclear forces in Europe.
But, again, we also will work unceasingly to gain acceptance in Geneva of our proposal to ban land-based, intermediate-range nuclear missiles.
In the United States, we will move forward with the plans I announced last year to modernize our strategic nuclear forces, which play so vital a role in maintaining peace by deterring war.
Yet, we also have proposed that Strategic Arms Reductions Talks begin.
We will pursue them determinedly.
In each of these areas, our policies are based on the conviction that a stable military balance at the lowest possible level will help further the cause of peace.
The other side will respond in good faith to these initiatives only if it believes we are resolved to provide for our own defense.
Unless convinced that we will unite and stay united behind these arms control initiatives and modernization programs, our adversaries will seek to divide us from one another and our people from their leaders.
I am optimistic about our relationship with the Soviet Union if the Western nations remain true to their values and true to each other.
I believe in Western civilization and its moral power.
I believe deeply in the principles the West esteems.
And guided by these ideals, I believe we can find a no-nonsense, workable, and lasting policy that will keep the peace.
Earlier, I said the German people had built a remarkable cathedral of democracy.
But we still have other work ahead.
We must build a cathedral of peace, where nations are safe from war and where people need not fear for their liberties.
I have heard the history of the famous cathedral of Cologne  how those beautiful soaring spires miraculously survived the destruction all around them, including part of the church itself.
Let us build a cathedral as the people of Cologne built theirs  with the deepest commitment and determination.
Let us build as they did-not just for ourselves but for the generations beyond.
For if we construct our peace properly, it will endure as long as the spires of Cologne.
Thank you very much.
Secretary-General,  President, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen:I speak today as both a citizen of the United States and of the world.
I come with the heartfelt wishes of my people for peace, bearing honest proposals and looking for genuine progress.
Dag Hammarskjold said 24 years ago this month, We meet in a time of peace, which is no peace.
His words are as true today as they were then.
More than a hundred disputes have disturbed the peace among nations since World War II, and today the threat of nuclear disaster hangs over the lives of all our people.
The Bible tells us there will be a time for peace, but so far this century mankind has failed to find it.
The United Nations is dedicated to world peace, and its charter clearly prohibits the international use of force.
Yet the tide of belligerence continues to rise.
The charter's influence has weakened even in the 4 years since the first special session on disarmament.
We must not only condemn aggression; we must enforce the dictates of our charter and resume the struggle for peace.
The record of history is clear: Citizens of the United States resort to force reluctantly and only when they must.
Our foreign policy, as President Eisenhower once said, is not difficult to state.
We are for peace first, last, and always for very simple reasons.
We know that only in a peaceful atmosphere, a peace with justice, one in which we can be confident, can America prosper as we have known prosperity in the past, he said.
He said to those who challenge the truth of those words, let me point out, at the end of World War II, we were the only undamaged industrial power in the world.
Our military supremacy was unquestioned.
We had harnessed the atom and had the ability to unleash its destructive force anywhere in the world.
In short, we could have achieved world domination, but that was contrary to the character of our people.
Instead, we wrote a new chapter in the history of mankind.
We used our power and wealth to rebuild the war-ravaged economies of the world, both East and West, including those nations who had been our enemies.
We took the initiative in creating such international institutions as this United Nations, where leaders of good will could come together to build bridges for peace and prosperity.
America has no territorial ambitions.
We occupy no countries, and we have built no walls to lock our people in.
Our commitment to self-determination, freedom, and peace is the very soul of America.
That commitment is as strong today as it ever was.
The United States has fought four wars in my lifetime.
In each, we struggled to defend freedom and democracy.
We were never the aggressors.
America's strength and, yes, her military power have been a force for peace, not conquest; for democracy, not despotism; for freedom, not tyranny.
Watching, as I have, succeeding generations of American youth bleed their lives onto far-flung battlefields to protect our ideals and secure the rule of law, I have known how important it is to deter conflict.
But since coming to the Presidency, the enormity of the responsibility of this office has made my commitment even deeper.
I believe that responsibility is shared by all of us here today.
On our recent trip to Europe, my wife, Nancy, told me of a bronze statue, 22 feet high, that she saw on a cliff on the coast of France.
The beach at the base of the cliff is called Saint Laurent, but countless American family Bibles have written it in on the flyleaf and know it as Omaha Beach.
The pastoral quiet of that French countryside is in marked contrast to the bloody violence that took place there on a June day 38 years ago when the Allies stormed the Continent.
At the end of just one day of battle, 10,500 Americans were wounded, missing, or killed in what became known as the Normandy landing.
The statue atop that cliff is called The Spirit of American Youth Rising From the Waves.
Its image of sacrifice is almost too powerful to describe.
The pain of war is still vivid in our national memory.
It sends me to this special session of the United Nations eager to comply with the plea of Pope Paul VI when he spoke in this chamber nearly 17 years ago.
If you want to be brothers, His Holiness said, let the arms fall from your hands.
Well, we Americans yearn to let them go.
But we need more than mere words, more than empty promises before we can proceed.
We look around the world and see rampant conflict and aggression.
There are many sources of this conflict  expansionist ambitions, local rivalries, the striving to obtain justice and security.
We must all work to resolve such discords by peaceful means and to prevent them from escalation.
In the nuclear era, the major powers bear a special responsibility to ease these sources of conflict and to refrain from aggression.
And that is why we are so deeply concerned by Soviet conduct.
Since World War II, the record of tyranny has included Soviet violation of the Yalta agreements leading to domination of Eastern Europe, symbolized by the Berlin Wall  a grim, gray monument to repression that I visited just a week ago.
It includes the takeovers of Czechoslovakia, Hungary, and Afghanistan; and the ruthless repression of the proud people of Poland.
Soviet-sponsored guerrillas and terrorists are at work in Central and South America, in Africa, the Middle East, in the Caribbean, and in Europe, violating human rights and unnerving the world with violence.
Communist atrocities in Southeast Asia, Afghanistan, and elsewhere continue to shock the free world as refugees escape to tell of their horror.
The decade of so-called detente witnessed the most massive Soviet buildup of military power in history.
They increased their defense spending by 40 percent while American defense actually declined in the same real terms.
Soviet aggression and support for violence around the world have eroded the confidence needed for arms negotiations.
While we exercised unilateral restraint, they forged ahead and today possess nuclear and conventional forces far in excess of an adequate deterrent capability.
Soviet oppression is not limited to the countries they invade.
At the very time the Soviet Union is trying to manipulate the peace movement in the West, it is stifling a budding peace movement at home.
In Moscow, banners are scuttled, buttons are snatched, and demonstrators are arrested when even a few people dare to speak about their fears.
Eleanor Roosevelt, one of our first ambassadors to this body, reminded us that the high-sounding words of tyrants stand in bleak contradiction to their deeds.
Their promises, she said, are in deep contrast to their performances.
My country learned a bitter lesson in this century: The scourge of tyranny cannot be stopped with words alone.
So, we have embarked on an effort to renew our strength that had fallen dangerously low.
We refuse to become weaker while potential adversaries remain committed to their imperialist adventures.
My people have sent me here today to speak for them as citizens of the world, which they truly are, for we Americans are drawn from every nationality represented in this chamber today.
We understand that men and women of every race and creed can and must work together for peace.
We stand ready to take the next steps down the road of cooperation through verifiable arms reduction.
Agreements on arms control and disarmament can be useful in reinforcing peace; but they are not magic.
We should not confuse the signing of agreements with the solving of problems.
Simply collecting agreements will not bring peace.
Agreements genuinely reinforce peace only when they are kept.
Otherwise we are building a paper castle that will be blown away by the winds of war.
Let me repeat, we need deeds, not words, to convince us of Soviet sincerity, should they choose to join us on this path.
Since the end of World War II, the United States has been the leader in serious disarmament and arms control proposals.
In 1946, in what became known as the Baruch plan, the United States submitted a proposal for control of nuclear weapons and nuclear energy by an international authority.
The Soviets rejected this plan.
In 1955 President Eisenhower made his Open Skies proposal, under which the United States and the Soviet Union would have exchanged blueprints of military establishments and provided for aerial reconnaissance.
The Soviets rejected this plan.
In 1963 the Limited Test Ban Treaty came into force.
This treaty ended nuclear weapons testing in the atmosphere, outer space, or under water by participating nations.
In 1970 the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons took effect.
The United States played a major role in this key effort to prevent the spread of nuclear explosives and to provide for international safeguards on civil nuclear activities.
My country remains deeply committed to those objectives today, and to strengthening the nonproliferation framework.
This is essential to international security.
In the early 1970's, again at United States urging, agreements were reached between the United States and the U.
SS R.
providing for ceilings on some categories of weapons.
They could have been more meaningful if Soviet actions had shown restraint and commitment to stability at lower levels of force.
The United Nations designated the 1970's as the First Disarmament Decade.
But good intentions were not enough.
In reality that 10-year period included an unprecedented buildup in military weapons and the flaring of aggression and use of force in almost every region of the world.
We are now in the Second Disarmament Decade.
The task at hand is to assure civilized behavior among nations, to unite behind an agenda of peace.
Over the past 7 months, the United States has put forward a broad-based, comprehensive series of proposals to reduce the risk of war.
We have proposed four major points as an agenda for peace: elimination of landbased, intermediate-range missiles; a onethird reduction in strategic ballistic missile warheads; a substantial reduction in NATO and Warsaw Pact ground and air forces; and new safeguards to reduce the risk of accidental war.
We urge the Soviet Union today to join with us in this quest.
We must act not for ourselves alone, but for all mankind.
On November 18th of last year, I announced United States objectives in arms control agreements.
They must be equitable and militarily significant.
They must stabilize forces at lower levels, and they must be verifiable.
The United States and its allies have made specific, reasonable, and equitable proposals.
In February, our negotiating team in Geneva offered the Soviet Union a draft treaty on intermediate-range nuclear forces.
We offered to cancel deployment of our Pershing II ballistic missiles and ground-launched cruise missiles in exchange for Soviet elimination of the SS-20, SS-4, and SS-5 missiles.
This proposal would eliminate with one stroke those systems about which both sides have expressed the greatest concern.
The United States is also looking forward to beginning negotiations on strategic arms reductions with the Soviet Union in less than 2 weeks.
We will work hard to make these talks an opportunity for real progress in our quest for peace.
On May 9th I announced a phased approach to the reduction of strategic arms.
In a first phase, the number of ballistic missile warheads on each side would be reduced to about 5,000.
No more than half the remaining warheads would be on landbased missiles.
All ballistic missiles would be reduced to an equal level, at about one-half the current United States number.
In the second phase, we would reduce each side's overall destructive power to equal levels, including a mutual ceiling on ballistic missile throw-weight below the current U.
S.
level.
We are also prepared to discuss other elements of the strategic balance.
Before I returned from Europe last week, I met in Bonn with the leaders of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.
We agreed to introduce a major new Western initiative for the Vienna negotiations on Mutual Balanced Force Reductions.
Our approach calls for common, collective ceilings for both NATO and the Warsaw Treaty Organization.
After 7 years, there would be a total of 700,000 ground forces and 900,000 ground and air force personnel combined.
It also includes a package of associated measures to encourage cooperation and verify compliance.
We urge the Soviet Union and members of the Warsaw Pact to view our Western proposal as a means to reach agreement in Vienna after 9 long years of inconclusive talks.
We also urge them to implement the 1975 Helsinki agreement on security and cooperation in Europe.
Let me stress that for agreements to work, both sides must be able to verify compliance.
The building of mutual confidence in compliance can only be achieved through greater openness.
I encourage the special session on disarmament to endorse the importance of these principles in arms control agreements.
I have instructed our representatives at the 40-nation Committee on Disarmament to renew emphasis on verification and compliance.
Based on a U.
S.
proposal, a committee has been formed to examine these issues as they relate to restrictions on nuclear testing.
We are also pressing the need for effective verification provisions in agreements banning chemical weapons.
The use of chemical and biological weapons has long been viewed with revulsion by civilized nations.
No peacemaking institution can ignore the use of those dread weapons and still live up to its mission.
The need for a truly effective and verifiable chemical weapons agreement has been highlighted by recent events.
The Soviet Union and their allies are violating the Geneva Protocol of 1925, related rules of international law, and the 1972 Biological Weapons Convention.
There is conclusive evidence that the Soviet Government has provided toxins for use in Laos and Kampuchea, and are themselves using chemical weapons against freedom-fighters in Afghanistan.
We have repeatedly protested to the Soviet Government, as well as to the Governments of Laos and Vietnam, their use of chemical and toxin weapons.
We call upon them now to grant full and free access to their countries or to territories they control so that United Nations experts can conduct an effective, independent investigation to verify cessation of these horrors.
Evidence of noncompliance with existing arms control agreements underscores the need to approach negotiation of any new agreements with care.
The democracies of the West are open societies.
Information on our defenses is available to our citizens, our elected officials, and the world.
We do not hesitate to inform potential adversaries of our military forces and ask in return for the same information concerning theirs.
The amount and type of military spending by a country is important for the world to know, as a measure of its intentions and the threat that country may pose to its neighbors.
The Soviet Union and other closed societies go to extraordinary lengths to hide their true military spending, not only from other nations but from their own people.
This practice contributes to distrust and fear about their intentions.
Today, the United States proposes an international conference on military expenditures to build on the work of this body in developing a common system for accounting and reporting.
We urge the Soviet Union, in particular, to join this effort in good faith, to revise the universally discredited official figures it publishes, and to join with us in giving the world a true account of the resources we allocate to our armed forces.
Last Friday in Berlin, I said that I would leave no stone unturned in the effort to reinforce peace and lessen the risk of war.
It's been clear to me steps should be taken to improve mutual communication, confidence, and lessen the likelihood of misinterpretation.
I have, therefore, directed the exploration of ways to increase understanding and communication between the United States and the Soviet Union in times of peace and of crisis.
We will approach the Soviet Union with proposals for reciprocal exchanges in such areas as advance notification of major strategic exercises that otherwise might be misinterpreted; advance notification of ICBM launches within, as well as beyond, national boundaries; and an expanded exchange of strategic forces data.
While substantial information on U.
S.
activities and forces in these areas already is provided, I believe that jointly and regularly sharing information would represent a qualitative improvement in the strategic nuclear environment and would help reduce the chance of misunderstandings.
I call upon the Soviet Union to join the United States in exploring these possibilities to build confidence, and I ask for your support of our efforts.
One of the major items before this conference is the development of a comprehensive program of disarmament.
We support the effort to chart a course of realistic and effective measures in the quest for peace.
I have come to this hall to call for international recommitment to the basic tenet of the United Nations Charter  that all members practice tolerance and live together in peace as good neighbors under the rule of law, forsaking armed force as a means of settling disputes between nations.
America urges you to support the agenda for peace that I have outlined today.
We ask you to reinforce the bilateral and multilateral arms control negotiations between members of NATO and the Warsaw Pact and to rededicate yourselves to maintaining international peace and security, and removing threats to peace.
We, who have signed the U.
N.
Charter, have pledged to refrain from the threat or use of force against the territory or independence of any state.
In these times when more and more lawless acts are going unpunished  as some members of this very body show a growing disregard for the U.
N.
Charter  the peace-loving nations of the world must condemn aggression and pledge again to act in a way that is worthy of the ideals that we have endorsed.
Let us finally make the charter live.
In late spring, 37 years ago, representatives of 50 nations gathered on the other side of this continent, in the San Francisco Opera House.
The League of Nations had crumbled, and World War II still raged.
But those men and nations were determined to find peace.
The result was this charter for peace that is the framework of the United Nations.
President Harry Truman spoke of the revival of an old faith.
He said the everlasting moral force of justice prompting that United Nations Conference  such a force remains strong in America and in other countries where speech is free and citizens have the right to gather and make their opinions known.
And President Truman said, If we should pay merely lip service to inspiring ideals, and later do violence to simple justice, we would draw down upon us the bitter wrath of generations yet unborn.
Those words of Harry Truman have special meaning for us today as we live with the potential to destroy civilization.
We must learn to live together in peace, he said.
We must build a new world  a far better world.
What a better world it would be if the guns were silent, if neighbor no longer encroached on neighbor, and all peoples were free to reap the rewards of their toil and determine their own destiny and system of government, whatever their choice.
During my recent audience with His Holiness Pope John Paul II, I gave him the pledge of the American people to do everything possible for peace and arms reduction.
The American people believe forging real and lasting peace to be their sacred trust.
Let us never forget that such a peace would be a terrible hoax if the world were no longer blessed with freedom and respect for human rights.
The United Nations, Hammarskjold said, was born out of the cataclysms of war.
It should justify the sacrifices of all those who have died for freedom and justice.
It is our duty to the past.
Hammarskjold said, And it is our duty to the future so to serve both our nations and the world.
As both patriots of our nations and the hope of all the world, let those of us assembled here in the name of peace deepen our understandings, renew our commitment to the rule of law, and take new and bolder steps  to calm an uneasy world.
Can any delegate here deny that in so doing he would be doing what the people, the rank and file of his own country or her own country want him or her to do? Isn't it time for us to really represent the deepest most heartfelt yearnings of all of our people?Let no nation abuse this common longing to be free of fear.
We must not manipulate our people by playing upon their nightmares.
We must serve mankind through genuine disarmament.
With God's help we can secure life and freedom for generations to come.
Thank you very much.
My fellow Americans:There's an old saying we have all heard a thousand times about the weather and how everyone talks about it but no one does anything about it.
Well, many of you must be feeling that way about the present state of our economy.
Certainly there is a lot of talk about it, but I want you to know we are doing something about it.
And the reason I wanted to talk to you is because you can help us do something about it.
Believe me, if some of you are confused, I can understand why.
For some time, ever since we started planning the 1983 budget for the fiscal year beginning this coming October 1st, there is been a steady drumbeat of reports on what we are supposed to be doing.
I know you have read and heard on the news a variety of statements attributed to various authoritative government sources who prefer not to have their names used.
Well, you know my name, and I think I am an authoritative source on this since I am right in the middle of what is going on here.
So, I had like to set the record straight on a few of the things that you might have heard lately.
I am sure you have heard that we are proposing the largest single tax increase in history.
The truth is, we are proposing nothing of the kind.
And then there is the one that our economic recovery program has failed, so I have abandoned it and turned to increasing taxes instead of trying to reduce Federal spending.
Well, do not you believe that one either.
Yes, there is a tax bill before the Congress tied to a program of further cuts in spending.
It is not, however, the greatest single tax increase in history.
Possibly it could be called the greatest tax reform in history, but it absolutely does not represent any reversal of policy or philosophy on the part of this administration or this President.
Now, you may have heard that some special interests oppose this bill.
And that is right; some do.
As a matter of fact, some in the Congress of my own party object to this bill  and strongly.
I am told by many that this bill is not politically popular, and it may not be.
Why then do I support it? I support it because it is right for America.
I support it because it is fair.
I support it because it will, when combined with our cuts in government spending, reduce interest rates and put more Americans back to work again.
Now, you will recall that when our administration came into office a year ago last January, we announced a plan for economic recovery.
Recovery from what? From a 1980 recession that saw inflation in double-digit figures for the second year in a row.
It was 12.
4 percent when we arrived.
Interest rates had gone into outer space.
They were at the highest they had been in a hundred years with a prime rate that hit 21 ? percent.
There were almost 8 million Americans out of work.
And in several hard-hit industrial States, there already were pockets of unemployment reaching figures of 15, 18, and even 20 percent.
I went to those areas; I know.
The cost of government was increasing at a rate of 17 percent a year.
There was little we could do about the budget already in place.
But we could do something about the one that had been proposed for the fiscal year beginning in October of our first year.
I had campaigned on the belief that government costs should be reduced and that the percentage of the people's earnings taken by government in taxes should also be reduced.
I also said that one area of government spending could not be reduced, but must instead be increased.
That was the spending necessary to restore our nation's defenses, which had been allowed to deteriorate to a dangerous degree in the preceding 4 years.
Interest rates continued high as the months went by, and unemployment increased, particularly in the automobile industry and housing construction.
Few could or would afford the high interest rates for home mortgages or installment buying of an automobile.
Meantime, we were putting our economic recovery program in place.
It was not easy.
We did not get all the cuts we wanted.
And we got some tax measures we did not want.
But we were charting a complete turnaround in government policy, and we did get the major part of what we proposed.
The Congress mandated spending cuts of $130 billion over 3 years and adopted the biggest tax cut in history.
Now, this, too, was to be implemented over a 3-year period.
It began with a 5-percent cut in the personal income tax beginning October 1st, 1981, then a 10-percent cut this last July, and another scheduled for July 1st, 1983.
These will be followed by indexing of the tax brackets so workers getting cost-of-living pay raises will not be moved up into higher brackets.
We have to realize inflation itself is a tax.
Government profits by inflation, but indexing will put a stop to that.
There were tax cuts for business and industry to help provide capital for modernization of plant and equipment, changes in the estate tax, capital gains tax, and the marriage-penalty tax.
Some who supported us on the spending cuts were fearful about cutting taxes in view of the continuing budget deficits.
We felt that tax cuts had to be a part of our plan in order to provide incentive for individuals and for business to increase productivity and thus create jobs for the unemployed.
Now, it is only been ten months since the first phase of our program went into effect.
As I said earlier, there are those who say it is been tried and it failed.
Well, as Al Smith used to say, Let's look at the record.
Start with interest rates, the basic cause of the present recession: The prime rate was, as I said, 21 1/2 percent.
Well, last week it was 14 1/2 percent.
And as of today, three major banks have lowered it to 14 percent.
Last week 90-day Treasury bills were paying less than 9 percent interest.
One year ago they were paying 15 1/2.
That double-digit inflation, 12.
4 percent, has been cut in half for the last 6 months.
Real earnings are at last increasing for the first time in quite a long time.
Personal savings, which trended downward throughout the last decade, are increasing.
This means more money in the pool of investment capital.
This will help further reduce interest rates.
All of this in only 10 months hardly looks like a program that failed to me.
Oh, yes, I failed to mention that in the quarter just ended there was an increase in economic growth  the first such increase in a long time.
Our biggest problem  the last one to be solved in every recession  is unemployment.
I understand how tough it is for those who are waiting for the jobs that come with recovery.
We can have no rest until our neighbors, our fellow citizens who want to work, are able once again to find jobs.
Again, let me say, the main obstacle to their doing so is continued high interest rates.
Those rates should be lower now than they are, with the success we have had in reducing inflation.
But part of the problem is psychological  a pessimism in the money markets that we will not stay the course and continue lowering the cost of government.
The projected increase in budget deficits has added to that pessimism and fear.
And this brings us back to that so-called greatest tax increase in history and the budget proposals now before the Congress.
When I submitted the 1983 budget to the Congress in February, it contained very significant spending cuts on top of those we obtained last year.
This time, however, we could not get the support we had last year.
Some who had not been happy about the tax cuts then were now insisting we must have additional tax revenues.
In fact, they wanted to cancel the reduction scheduled for next July and cancel the indexing of tax brackets.
Others proposed tax increases mounting to about $150 billion over a 3-year period.
On top of this, there was resistance to the spending reductions we asked for, and even attempts to eliminate some of last year's cuts so as to actually increase spending.
For many months now we have been working to get a compromise budget that would further reduce spending and thus reduce the deficits.
We also have stood firm on retaining the tax cuts already in place, because, as I said, they are essential to restoring the economy.
We did, however, agree to limited revenue increases so long as they did not harm the incentive features of our economic recovery program.
We ourselves, last year, had called attention to the possibility of better compliance with the tax laws  collecting taxes legitimately owed but which were not being paid.
Well, weeks and weeks of negotiations resulted in a congressional budget resolution combining revenue increases and further spending reductions.
Revenues would increase over a 3-year period by about $99 billion, and outlays in that same period would be reduced by 280 billion.
Now, as you can see, that figures out to about a 3-to-1 ratio  $3 less in spending outlays for each $1 of increased revenue.
This compromise adds up to a total over three years of a $380 billion reduction in the budget deficits.
And remember, our original tax reduction remains in place, which means your taxes will still be cut $335 billion in these next three years, even with the passage of this present tax bill.
Now, let me take that $99 billion tax program apart, and you decide whether it is the biggest tax increase in history.
Of the entire $99 billion, 32 billion is collection of tax presently owed under the present laws and which is not being paid.
Now, to all of you who are paying your tax, simple fairness says we should collect from those who are freeloading.
Roughly 48 billion of the 99 billion represents closing off special-interest loopholes which have resulted in unintended tax advantages for some  not all  taxpayers, some who are financially well able to pay their share.
Now, this is also a matter of simple fairness.
So, more than 80 percent of the tax bill is not new tax at all, but is better collecting and correcting of flaws in the system.
Now, this leaves $19 billion over three years of actual new taxes, which is far outweighed by the tax cuts which will benefit individuals.
There is an excise tax on cigarettes, another on telephones.
Well, for people who smoke a pack a day, that tax will mean an increase of only $2.
40 a month.
The telephone tax increase is only about 54 cents a month for the average household.
Right now the tax reduction that we passed last year is saving the average family about $400 per year.
Next year, even after this new tax bill is passed, the savings will almost double; they will go to $788.
And here's what the totals look like.
The new tax reform will raise in 3 years about, as I say, 99 billion.
In the same 3 years, as I said a moment ago, our tax-cut program even after this increase will save you 335 billion.
Within the new bill there has, of course, been disagreement over some of the specific provisions.
For example, there is considerable confusion over the proposal to have withholding of tax due on interest and dividends, just as it is withheld now on your wages and salaries.
Many senior citizens have been led to believe this is a new tax added on top of the present income tax.
Well, there is no truth whatsoever to that.
We found that while the overwhelming majority of Americans faithfully report income from interest and dividends and pay taxes on it, some do not.
It's one of the significant areas of noncompliance and is costing the government about $9 billion a year.
In the case of those over age 65, withholding will only apply to those with incomes of $14,450 and up per individual and $24,214 for couples filing a joint return.
Low-income citizens below 65 will be exempt if their income is less than about $8,000 for an individual or 15,300 for those filing joint returns.
And there will be an exemption for all interest payments of $150 or less.
The only people whose taxes will be increased by this withholding are those who presently are evading their fair share of the tax burden.
Once again, we are striving to see that all taxpayers are treated fairly.
Now, this withholding will go into effect next July, not this January 1st, as was earlier reported.
Back during the campaign  n September 9th, 1980, to be exact  I said my goal was to reduce by 1985 the share of the gross national product taken by the government in taxes, reduce it to 20.
5 percent.
If we had done nothing, it would have risen to almost 25 percent.
But even after passage of this bill, the Federal Government in 1985 will only be taking 19.
6 percent of the gross national product.
Make no mistake about it, this whole package is a compromise.
I had to swallow hard to agree to any revenue increase.
But there are two sides to a compromise.
Those who supported the increased revenues swallowed hard to accept $280 billion in outlay cuts.
Others have accepted specific provisions with regard to taxes or spending cuts which they opposed.
There's a provision in the bill for extended unemployment payments in States particularly hard hit by unemployment.
If this provision is not enacted, 2 million unemployed people will use up their benefits by the end of March.
I repeat: Much of this bill will make our tax system more fair for every American, especially those in lower income brackets.
I am still dedicated to reducing the level of spending until it is within our income, and I still want to see the base of the economy broadened so that the individual's tax burden can be further reduced.
Over the years, growth in government and deficit spending have been built into our system.
Now, it had be nice if we could just cut that out of our system with a single, sharp slice.
That, however, cannot be done without bringing great hardship down on many of our less fortunate.
neighbors who are not in a position to provide for themselves.
And none of us wants that.
Our effort to restore fiscal integrity and common sense to the Federal establishment is not limited to the budget cuts and tax policy.
Vice President Bush heads up a task force that is been reviewing excessive regulations.
Already enough unnecessary and duplicative regulations have been eliminated or revised to save an estimated $6 billion every year.
Our Inspectors General have been mobilized into a task force aimed at ferreting out waste and fraud.
They've conducted tens of thousands of audits, secured thousands of indictments resulting in many convictions.
In the first 6 months of fiscal 1982 alone, they found $5.
8 billion of savings and improved use of funds.
Computer cross-checking has uncovered thousands of government checks still going to people who have been dead for several years.
Task forces from the private sector are engaged in a study of the management structure of government.
What they have learned already indicates a great potential for savings by simply bringing government procedures up to ordinary modern business standards.
Our private sector initiatives force, under William Verity, has uncovered hundreds of community and statewide projects performing services voluntarily that once were thought to be the province of government.
Some of the most innovative have to do with job training and placement, particularly for young people.
What we need now is an end to the bickering here in the Capital.
We need the bipartisan, comprehensive package of revenue increases and spending cuts now before the Congress.
We need it to be passed.
We're not proposing a quick fix, an artificial stimulant to the economy, such as we have seen in the several recessions in recent years.
The present recession is bottoming out without resorting to quick fixes.
Now, there will not be a sudden boom or upsurge.
But slowly and surely, we will have a sound and lasting recovery based on solid values and increased productivity and an end to deficit spending.
It may not be easy, but it is the best way, the only way to real and lasting prosperity for all our people.
Think of it, we have only had one balanced budget in the last 20 years.
Let's look forward to the day when we begin making payments to reduce the national debt, instead of turning it all over to our children.
You helped us start this economic recovery program last year when you told your representatives you wanted it.
You can help again  whether you are a Republican, a Democrat, or an Independent  by letting them know that you want it continued, letting them know that you understand that this legislation is a price worth paying for lower interest rates, economic recovery, and more jobs.
The single most important question facing us tonight is, do we reduce deficits and interest rates by raising revenue from those who are not now paying their fair share? Or do we accept bigger budget deficits, higher interest rates, and higher unemployment simply because we disagree on certain features of a legislative package which offers hope for millions of Americans at home, on the farm, and in the workplace?Do we tell these Americans to give up hope, that their ship of state lies dead in the water because those entrusted with manning that ship cannot agree on which sail to raise? We're within sight of the safe port of economic recovery.
Do we make port or go aground on the shoals of selfishness, partisanship, and just plain bullheadedness?The measure the Congress is about to vote on, while not perfect in the eyes of any one of us, will bring us closer to the goal of a balanced budget, restored industrial power, and employment for all who want to work.
Together we can reach that goal.
Thank you.
God bless you.
My fellow Americans:Today has been a day that should make us proud.
It marked the end of the successful evacuation of PLO from Beirut, Lebanon.
This peaceful step could never have been taken without the good offices of the United States and especially the truly heroic work of a great American diplomat, Ambassador Philip Habib.
Thanks to his efforts, I am happy to announce that the U.
S.
Marine contingent helping to supervise the evacuation has accomplished its mission.
Our young men should be out of Lebanon within 2 weeks.
They, too, have served the cause of peace with distinction, and we can all be very proud of them.
But the situation in Lebanon is only part of the overall problem of conflict in the Middle East.
So, over the past 2 weeks, while events in Beirut dominated the front page, America was engaged in a quiet, behind-the-scenes effort to lay the groundwork for a broader peace in the region.
For once there were no premature leaks as U.
S.
diplomatic missions traveled to Mideast capitals, and I met here at home with a wide range of experts to map out an American peace initiative for the long-suffering peoples of the Middle East  Arab and Israeli alike.
It seemed to me that with the agreement in Lebanon we had an opportunity for a more far-reaching peace effort in the region, and I was determined to seize that moment.
In the words of the scripture, the time had come to follow after the things which make for peace.
Tonight I want to report to you the steps we have taken and the prospects they can open up for a just and lasting peace in the Middle East.
America has long been committed to bringing peace to this troubled region.
For more than a generation, successive United States administrations have endeavored to develop a fair and workable process that could lead to a true and lasting Arab-Israeli peace.
Our involvement in the search for Mideast peace is not a matter of preference; it is a moral imperative.
The strategic importance of the region to the United States is well known, but our policy is motivated by more than strategic interests.
We also have an irreversible commitment to the survival and territorial integrity of friendly states.
Nor can we ignore the fact that the well-being of much of the world's economy is tied to stability in the strife-torn Middle East.
Finally, our traditional humanitarian concerns dictated a continuing effort to peacefully resolve conflicts.
When our administration assumed office in January of 1981, I decided that the general framework for our Middle East policy should follow the broad guidelines laid down by my predecessors.
There were two basic issues we had to address.
First, there was the strategic threat to the region posed by the Soviet Union and its surrogates, best demonstrated by the brutal war in Afghanistan, and, second, the peace process between Israel and its Arab neighbors.
With regard to the Soviet threat, we have strengthened our efforts to develop with our friends and allies a joint policy to deter the Soviets and their surrogates from further expansion in the region and, if necessary, to defend against it.
With respect to the Arab-Israeli conflict, we have embraced the Camp David framework as the only way to proceed.
We have also recognized, however, solving the Arab-Israeli conflict in and of itself cannot assure peace throughout a region as vast and troubled as the Middle East.
Our first objective under the Camp David process was to ensure the successful fulfillment of the Egyptian-Israeli peace treaty.
This was achieved with the peaceful return of the Sinai to Egypt in April 1982.
To accomplish this, we worked hard with our Egyptian and Israeli friends and, eventually, with other friendly countries to create the multinational force which now operates in the Sinai.
Throughout this period of difficult and time-consuming negotiations, we never lost sight of the next step of Camp David  autonomy talks to pave the way for permitting the Palestinian people to exercise their legitimate rights.
However, owing to the tragic assassination of President Sadat and other crises in the area, it was not until January 1982 that we were able to make a major effort to renew these talks.
Secretary of State Haig and Ambassador Fairbanks made three visits to Israel and Egypt early this year to pursue the autonomy talks.
Considerable progress was made in developing the basic outline of an American approach which was to be presented to Egypt and Israel after April.
The successful completion of Israel's withdrawal from Sinai and the courage shown on this occasion by Prime Minister Begin and President Mubarak in living up to their agreements convinced me the time had come for a new American policy to try to bridge the remaining differences between Egypt and Israel on the autonomy process.
So, in May 1 called for specific measures and a timetable for consultations with the Governments of Egypt and Israel on the next steps in the peace process.
However, before this effort could be launched, the conflict in Lebanon preempted our efforts.
The autonomy talks were basically put on hold while we sought to untangle the parties in Lebanon and still the guns of war.
The Lebanon war, tragic as it was, has left us with a new opportunity for Middle East peace.
We must seize it now and bring peace to this troubled area so vital to world stability while there is still time.
It was with this strong conviction that over a month ago, before the present negotiations in Beirut had been completed, I directed Secretary of State Shultz to again review our policy and to consult a wide range of outstanding Americans on the best ways to strengthen chances for peace in the Middle East.
We have consulted with many of the officials who were historically involved in the process, with Members of the Congress, and with individuals from the private sector.
And I have held extensive consultations with my own advisers on the principles that I will outline to you tonight.
The evacuation of the PLO from Beirut is now complete, and we can now help the Lebanese to rebuild their war-torn country.
We owe it to ourselves and to posterity to move quickly to build upon this achievement.
A stable and revived Lebanon is essential to all our hopes for peace in the region.
The people of Lebanon deserve the best efforts of the international community to turn the nightmares of the past several years into a new dawn of hope.
But the opportunities for peace in the Middle East do not begin and end in Lebanon.
As we help Lebanon rebuild, we must also move to resolve the root causes of conflict between Arabs and Israelis.
The war in Lebanon has demonstrated many things, but two consequences are key to the peace process.
First; the military losses of the PLO have not diminished the yearning of the Palestinian people for a just solution of their claims; and, second, while Israel's military successes in Lebanon have demonstrated that its armed forces are second to none in the region, they alone cannot bring just and lasting peace to Israel and her neighbors.
The question now is how to reconcile Israel's legitimate security concerns with the legitimate rights of the Palestinians.
And that answer can only come at the negotiating table.
Each party must recognize that the outcome must be acceptable to all and that true peace will require compromises by all.
So, tonight I am calling for a fresh start.
This is the moment for all those directly concerned to get involved  or lend their support  to a workable basis for peace.
The Camp David agreement remains the foundation of our policy.
Its language provides all parties with the leeway they need for successful negotiations.
I call on Israel to make clear that the security for which she yearns can only be achieved through genuine peace, a peace requiring magnanimity, vision, and courage.
I call on the Palestinian people to recognize that their own political aspirations are inextricably bound to recognition of Israel's right to a secure future.
And I call on the Arab States to accept the reality of Israel  and the reality that peace and justice are to be gained only through hard, fair, direct negotiation.
In making these calls upon others, I recognize that the United States has a special responsibility.
No other nation is in a position to deal with the key parties to the conflict on the basis of trust and reliability.
The time has come for a new realism on the part of all the peoples of the Middle East.
The State of Israel is an accomplished fact; it deserves unchallenged legitimacy within the community of nations.
But Israel's legitimacy has thus far been recognized by too few countries and has been denied by every Arab State except Egypt.
Israel exists; it has a right to exist in peace behind secure and defensible borders; and it has a right to demand of its neighbors that they recognize those facts.
I have personally followed and supported Israel's heroic struggle for survival, ever since the founding of the State of Israel 34 years ago.
In the pre-1967 borders Israel was barely 10 miles wide at its narrowest point.
The bulk of Israel's population lived within artillery range of hostile Arab armies.
I am not about to ask Israel to live that way again.
The war in Lebanon has demonstrated another reality in the region.
The departure of the Palestinians from Beirut dramatizes more than ever the homelessness of the Palestinian people.
Palestinians feel strongly that their cause is more than a question of refugees.
I agree.
The Camp David agreement recognized that fact when it spoke of the legitimate rights of the Palestinian people and their just requirements.
For peace to endure it must involve all those who have been most deeply affected by the conflict.
Only through broader participation in the peace process, most immediately by Jordan and by the Palestinians, will Israel be able to rest confident in the knowledge that its security and integrity will be respected by its neighbors.
Only through the process of negotiation can all the nations of the Middle East achieve a secure peace.
These, then, are our general goals.
What are the specific new American positions, and why are we taking them? In the Camp David talks thus far, both Israel and Egypt have felt free to express openly their views as to what the outcome should be.
Understandably their views have differed on many points.
The United States has thus far sought to play the role of mediator.
We have avoided public comment on the key issues.
We have always recognized and continue to recognize that only the voluntary agreement of those parties most directly involved in the conflict can provide an enduring solution.
But it is become evident to me that some clearer sense of America's position on the key issues is necessary to encourage wider support for the peace process.
First, as outlined in the Camp David accords, there must be a period of time during which the Palestinian inhabitants of the West Bank and Gaza will have full autonomy over their own affairs.
Due consideration must be given to the principle of self-government by the inhabitants of the territories and to the legitimate security concerns of the parties involved.
The purpose of the 5-year period of transition which would begin after free elections for a self-governing Palestinian authority is to prove to the Palestinians that they can run their own affairs and that such Palestinian autonomy poses no threat to Israel's security.
The United States will not support the use of any additional land for the purpose of settlements during the transitional period.
Indeed, the immediate adoption of a settlement freeze by Israel, more than any other action, could create the confidence needed for wider participation in these talks.
Further settlement activity is in no way necessary for the security of Israel and only diminishes the confidence of the Arabs that a final outcome can be freely and fairly negotiated.
I want to make the American position well understood.
The purpose of this transitional period is the peaceful and orderly transfer of authority from Israel to the Palestinian inhabitants of the West Bank and Gaza.
At the same time, such a transfer must not interfere with Israel's security requirements.
Beyond the transition period, as we look to the future of the West Bank and Gaza, it is clear to me that peace cannot be achieved by the formation of an independent Palestinian state in those territories, nor is it achievable on the basis of Israeli sovereignty or permanent control over the West Bank and Gaza.
So, the United States will not support the establishment of an independent Palestinian state in the West Bank and Gaza, and we will not support annexation or permanent control by Israel.
There is, however, another way to peace.
The final status of these lands must, of course, be reached through the give and take of negotiations.
But it is the firm view of the United States that self-government by the Palestinians of the West Bank and Gaza in association with Jordan offers the best chance for a durable, just, and lasting peace.
We base our approach squarely on the principle that the Arab-Israeli conflict should be resolved through negotiations involving an exchange of territory for peace.
This exchange is enshrined in United Nations Security Council Resolution 242, which is, in turn, incorporated in all its parts in the Camp David agreements.
U.
N.
Resolution 242 remains wholly valid as the foundation stone of America's Middle East peace effort.
It is the United States position that, in return for peace, the withdrawal provision of Resolution 242 applies to all fronts, including the West Bank and Gaza.
When the border is negotiated between Jordan and Israel, our view on the extent to which Israel should be asked to give up territory will be heavily affected by the extent of true peace and normalization, and the security arrangements offered in return.
Finally, we remain convinced that Jerusalem must remain undivided, but its final status should be decided through negotiation.
In the course of the negotiations to come, the United States will support positions that seem to us fair and reasonable compromises and likely to promote a sound agreement.
We will also put forward our own detailed proposals when we believe they can be helpful.
And, make no mistake, the United States will oppose any proposal from any party and at any point in the negotiating process that threatens the security of Israel.
America's commitment to the security of Israel is ironclad, and, I might add, so is mine.
During the past few days, our Ambassadors in Israel, Egypt, Jordan, and Saudi Arabia have presented to their host governments the proposals, in full detail, that I have outlined here today.
Now I am convinced that these proposals can bring justice, bring security, and bring durability to an Arab-Israeli peace.
The United States will stand by these principles with total dedication.
They are fully consistent with Israel's security requirements and the aspirations of the Palestinians.
We will work hard to broaden participation at the peace table as envisaged by the Camp David accords.
And I fervently hope that the Palestinians and Jordan, with the support of their Arab colleagues, will accept this opportunity.
Tragic turmoil in the Middle East runs back to the dawn of history.
In our modern day, conflict after conflict has taken its brutal toll there.
In an age of nuclear challenge and economic interdependence, such conflicts are a threat to all the people of the world, not just the Middle East itself.
It's time for us all  in the Middle East and around the world  to call a halt to conflict, hatred, and prejudice.
It's time for us all to launch a common effort for reconstruction, peace, and progress.
It has often been said  and, regrettably, too often been true  that the story of the search for peace and justice in the Middle East is a tragedy of opportunities missed.
In the aftermath of the settlement in Lebanon, we now face an opportunity for a broader peace.
This time we must not let it slip from our grasp.
We must look beyond the difficulties and obstacles of the present and move with a fairness and resolve toward a brighter future.
We owe it to ourselves  and to posterity  to do no less.
For if we miss this chance to make a fresh start, we may look back on this moment from some later vantage point and realize how much that failure cost us all.
These, then, are the principles upon which American policy toward the Arab-Israeli conflict will be based.
I have made a personal commitment to see that they endure and, God willing, that they will come to be seen by all reasonable, compassionate people as fair, achievable, and in the interests of all who wish to see peace in the Middle East.
Tonight, on the eve of what can be a dawning of new hope for the people of the troubled Middle East  and for all the world's people who dream of a just and peaceful future  I ask you, my fellow Americans, for your support and your prayers in this great undertaking.
Thank you, and God bless you.
My fellow Americans:The scenes that the whole world witnessed this past weekend were among the most heart-rending in the long nightmare of Lebanon's agony.
Millions of us have seen pictures of the Palestinian victims of this tragedy.
There is little that words can add, but there are actions we can and must take to bring that nightmare to an end.
It's not enough for us to view this as some remote event in which we, ourselves, are not involved.
For our friends in Lebanon and Israel, for our friends in Europe and elsewhere in the Middle East, and for us as Americans, this tragedy, horrible as it is, reminds us of the absolute imperative of bringing peace to that troubled country and region.
By working for peace in the Middle East, we serve the cause of world peace and the future of mankind.
For the criminals who did this deed, no punishment is enough to remove the blot of their crime.
But for the rest of us, there are things that we can learn and things that we must do.
The people of Lebanon must have learned that the cycle of massacre upon massacre must end.
Children are not avenged by the murder of other children.
Israel must have learned that there is no way it can impose its own solutions on hatreds as deep and bitter as those that produced this tragedy.
If it seeks to do so, it will only sink more deeply into the quagmire that looms before it.
Those outsiders who have fed the flames of civil war in Lebanon for so many years need to learn that the fire will consume them, too, if it is not put out.
And we must all rededicate ourselves to the cause of peace.
I reemphasize my call for early progress to solve the Palestinian issue and repeat the U.
S.
proposals which are now even more urgent.
For now is not the time for talk alone; now is a time for action-to act together to restore peace to Beirut, to help a stable government emerge that can restore peace and independence to all of Lebanon, and to bring a just and lasting resolution to the conflict between Israel and its Arab neighbors, one that satisfies the legitimate rights of the Palestinians, who are all too often its victims.
Our basic objectives in Lebanon have not changed, for they are the objectives of the Government and the people of Lebanon themselves.
First and foremost, we seek the restoration of a strong and stable central government in that country, brought into being by orderly constitutional processes.
Lebanon elected a new President 2 short weeks ago, only to see him murdered even before he could assume his office.
This week a distressed Lebanon will again be electing a new President.
May God grant him safety as well as the wisdom and courage to lead his country into a new and happier era.
The international community has an obligation to assist the Government of Lebanon in reasserting authority over all its territory.
Foreign forces and armed factions have too long obstructed the legitimate role of the Government of Lebanon's security forces.
We must pave the way for withdrawal of foreign forces.
The place to begin this task is in Beirut.
The Lebanese Government must be permitted to restore internal security in its capital.
It cannot do this if foreign forces remain in or near Beirut.
With this goal in mind, I have consulted with our French and Italian allies.
We have agreed to form a new multinational force, similar to the one which served so well last month, with the mission of enabling the Lebanese Government to resume full sovereignty over its capital, the essential precondition for extending its control over the entire country.
The Lebanese Government, with the support of its people, requested this help.
For this multinational force to succeed, it is essential that Israel withdraw from Beirut.
With the expected cooperation of all parties, the multinational force will return to Beirut for a limited period of time.
Its purpose is not to act as a police force, but to make it possible for the lawful authorities of Lebanon to discharge those duties for themselves.
Secretary Shultz, on my behalf, has also reiterated our views to the Government of Israel through its Ambassador in Washington.
Unless Israel moves quickly and courageously to withdraw, it will find itself ever more deeply involved in problems that are not its own and which it cannot solve.
The participation of American forces in Beirut will again be for a limited period.
But I have concluded there is no alternative to their returning to Lebanon if that country is to have a chance to stand on its own feet.
Peace in Beirut is only a first step.
Together with the people of Lebanon, we seek the removal of all foreign military forces from that country.
The departure of all foreign forces at the request of the Lebanese authorities has been widely endorsed by Arab as well as other states.
Israel and Syria have both indicated that they have no territorial ambitions in Lebanon and are prepared to withdraw.
It is now urgent that specific arrangements for withdrawal of all foreign forces be agreed upon.
This must happen very soon.
The legitimate security concerns of neighboring states, including, particularly, the safety of Israel's northern population, must be provided for.
But this is not a difficult task, if the political will is there.
The Lebanese people must be allowed to chart their own future.
They must rely solely on Lebanese Armed Forces who are willing and able to bring security to their country.
They must be allowed to do so, and the sooner the better.
Ambassador Draper, who is been in close consultation with the parties concerned in Lebanon, will remain in the area to work for the full implementation of our proposal.
Ambassador Habib will join him, will represent me at the inauguration of the new President of Lebanon, and will consult with the leaders in the area.
He will return promptly to Washington to report to me.
Early in the summer, our government met its responsibility to help resolve a severe crisis and to relieve the Lebanese people of a crushing burden.
We succeeded.
Recent events have produced new problems, and we must again assume our responsibility.
I am especially anxious to end the agony of Lebanon because it is both right and in our national interest.
But I am also determined to press ahead on the broader effort to achieve peace between Israel and its Arab neighbors.
The events in Beirut of last week have served only to reinforce my conviction that such a peace is desperately needed and that the initiative we undertook on September 1st is the right way to proceed.
We will not be discouraged or deterred in our efforts to seek peace in Lebanon and a just and lasting peace throughout the Middle East.
All of us must learn the appropriate lessons from this tragedy and assume the responsibilities that it imposes upon us.
We owe it to ourselves and to our children.
The whole world will be a safer place when this region which has known so much trouble can begin to know peace instead.
Both our purpose and our actions are peaceful, and we are taking them in a spirit of international cooperation.
So, tonight, I ask for your prayers and your support as our country continues its vital role as a leader for world peace, a role that all of us as Americans can be proud of.
Thank you, and God bless you.
Ladies and gentlemen,  Chairman, reverend clergy, Mickey, I thank you very much for those very kind words, and I thank all of you for certainly a most hearty and warm welcome.
I am grateful to the American Conservative Union, Young Americans for Freedom, National Review, and Human Events for organizing this third annual memorial service for the Democratic platform of 1980.
Someone asked me why I wanted to make it three in a row.
Well, you know how the Irish love wakes.
But I am delighted to be back here with you, at your 10th annual conference.
In my last two addresses, I have talked about our common perceptions and goals, and I thought I might report to you here tonight on where we stand in achieving those goals  a sort of state of the Reagan report, if you will.
Now, I am the first to acknowledge that there is a good deal left unfinished on the conservative agenda.
Our cleanup crew will need more than 2 years to deal with the mess left by others for over half a century.
But I am not disheartened.
In fact, my attitude about that unfinished agenda is not very different from that expressed in an anecdote about one of my favorite Presidents, Calvin Coolidge.
Some of you may know that after Cal Coolidge was introduced to the sport of fishing by his Secret Service detail, it got to be quite a passion with him, if you can use that word about Silent Cal.
Anyway, he was once asked by reporters how many fish were in one of his favorite angling places, the River Brule.
And Coolidge said the waters were estimated to carry 45,000 trout.
And then he said, I have not caught them all yet, but I sure have intimidated them.
Well, it is true we have not brought about every change important to the conscience of a conservative, but we conservatives can take a great deal of honest pride in what we have achieved.
In a few minutes I want to talk about just how far we have come and what we need to do to win further victories.
But right now, I think a word or two on strategy is in order.
You may remember that in the past, I mentioned that it was not our task as conservatives to just point out the mistakes made over all the decades of liberal government, not just to form an able opposition, but to govern, to lead a nation.
And I noted this would make new demands upon our movement, upon all of us.
For the first time in half a century, we have developed a whole new cadre of young conservatives in government.
We've shown that conservatives can do more than criticize; we have shown that we can govern and move our legislation through the Congress.
Now, I know there is concern over attempts to roll back some of the gains that we have made.
And it seems to me that here we ought to give some thought to strategy  to making sure that we stop and think before we act.
For example, some of our critics have been saying recently that they want to take back the people's third-year tax cut and abolish tax indexing.
And some others, including members of my staff, wanted immediately to open up a verbal barrage against them.
Well, I hope you know that sometimes it is better if a President does not say exactly what is on his mind.
There's an old story about a farmer and a lawyer that illustrates my point.
It seems that these two got into a pretty bad collision, a traffic accident.
They both got out of their cars.
The farmer took one look at the lawyer, walked back to his car, got a package, brought it back.
There was a bottle inside, and he said, Here, you look pretty shook up.
I think you ought to take a nip of this, it will steady your nerves.
Well, the lawyer did.
And the farmer said, You still look a little bit pale.
How about another? And the lawyer took another swallow.
And under the urging of the farmer, he took another and another and another.
And then, finally, he said he was feeling pretty good and asked the farmer if he did not think that he ought to have a little nip, too.
And the farmer said, Not me, I am waiting for the State trooper.
I wonder if we cannot learn something from that farmer.
If our liberal friends really want to head into the next election under the banner of taking away from the American people their first real tax cut in nearly 20 years; if, after peering into their heart of hearts, they feel they must tell the American people that over the next 6 years they want to reduce the income of an average family by $3,000; and if they want to voice these deeply held convictions in an election year  well, fellow conservatives, who are we to stifle the voices of conscience?Now, in talking about our legislative agenda, I know that some of you have been disturbed by the notion of standby tax increases in the so-called out-years.
Well, I was not wild about the idea myself.
But the economy is getting better, and I believe these improvements are only the beginning.
And with some luck, and if the American people respond with the kind of energy and initiative they have always shown in the past, well, maybe it is time we started thinking about some standby tax cuts, too.
But you know, the great thing about that standby tax increase is that if it is passed, they cannot put it into effect unless they have first agreed to all our spending cuts.
It does give them something to think about.
But you know, with regard to the economy, I wonder if our political adversaries have not once again proved that they are our best allies.
They spent the last 16 months or so placing all the responsibility for the state of the economy on our shoulders.
And with some help from the media, it is been a pretty impressive campaign.
They've created quite an image  we are responsible for the economy.
Well, I assume that we are responsible then for inflation which, after back-to-back years in double digits before we got here, has now been reduced to 3.
9 percent in 1982.
And for the last 3 months of that year, it ran at only 1.
1 percent.
In 1982 real wages increased for the first time in 3 years.
Interest rates, as you have already been told, have dropped dramatically, with the prime rate shrinking by nearly 50 percent.
And in December, the index of leading indicators was a full 6.
3 percent above last March's low point and has risen in 8 of the last 9 months.
Last month housing starts were up 95 percent and building permits 88 percent over last year at this time.
New home sales are up by 54 percent since April, and inventories of unsold homes are at the lowest levels in more than a decade.
Auto production this quarter is scheduled to increase by 22 percent, and General Motors alone is putting 21,400 of their workers back on the job.
Last month's sharp decline in the unemployment rate was the most heartening sign of all.
It would have taken a $5 billion jobs bill to reduce unemployment by the same amount  and it did not cost us anything.
It's time to admit our guilt, time we admitted that our liberal critics have been right all the time.
And they should go right on telling the American people that the state of the economy is precisely the fault of that wicked creature, Kemp-Roth and its havoc-breaking truth, Reaganomics.
Let's confess, let us admit that we have turned the corner on the economy.
And we are especially proud of one thing: When we hit heavy weather, we did not panic, we did not go for fast bromides and quick fixes, the huge tax increases or wage and price controls recommended by so many.
And our stubbornness, if you want to call it that, will quite literally pay off for every American in the years ahead.
So, let me pledge to you tonight: Carefully, we have set out on the road to recovery.
We will not be deterred.
We will not be turned back.
I reject the policies of the past, the policies of tax and tax, spend and spend, elect and elect.
The lesson of these failed policies is clear; I have said this before: You cannot drink yourself sober or spend yourself rich, and you cannot prime the pump without pumping the prime  as somebody did, like to 21 percent in 1980.
And a word is in order here on the most historic of all the legislative reforms we have achieved in the last 2 years  that of tax indexing.
You can understand the terror that strikes in the heart of those whose principal constituency is big government.
Bracket creep is government's hidden incentive to inflate the currency and bring on inflation, and indexing will end that.
It will end those huge, hidden subsidies for bigger and bigger government.
In the future, if we get indexing planted firmly as a law of the land, the advocates of big government who want money, more money for their social spending, their social engineering schemes, will have to go to the people and say right out loud: We want more money from your weekly paycheck, so we are raising your taxes.
Do that instead of sneaking it out by way of inflation, which they have helped bring on.
So, all the professional Washingtonians, from bureaucrats to lobbyists to the special interest groups, are frightened  plain scared  and they are working overtime to take this one back.
Well, I think I speak for all conservatives when I say: Tax indexing is nonnegotiable.
It's a fight we will take to the people, and we will win.
But I think you can see how even this debate shows things are changing for the better.
It highlights the essential differences between two philosophies now contending for power in American political life.
One is the philosophy of the past  a philosophy that has as its constituents an ill-assorted mix of elitists and special-interest groups who see government as the principal vehicle of social change, who believe that the only thing we have to fear is the people, who must be watched and regulated and superintended from Washington.
On the other hand, our political philosophy is at the heart of the new political consensus that emerged in America at the beginning of this decade, one that I believe all  well, I believe it will dominate American politics for many decades.
The economic disasters brought about by too much government were the catalysts for this consensus.
During the seventies, the American people began to see misdirected, overgrown government as the source of many of our social problems  not the solution.
This new consensus has a view of government that is essentially that of our Founding Fathers  that government is the servant, not the master; that it was meant to maintain order, to protect our nation's safety, but otherwise, in the words of that noted political philosopher, schnozzle Jimmy Durante, Don't put no constrictions on da people.
Leave 'em da heck alone.
The overriding goal during the past 2 years has been to give the government back to the American people, to make it responsive again to their wishes and desires, to do more than bring about a healthy economy or a growing gross national product.
We've truly brought about a quiet revolution in American Government.
For too many years, bureaucratic self-interest and political maneuvering held sway over efficiency and honesty in government.
Federal dollars were treated as the property of bureaucrats, not taxpayers.
Those in the Federal Establishment who pointed to the misuse of those dollars were looked upon as malcontents or troublemakers.
Well, this administration has broken with what was a kind of a buddy system.
There have been dramatic turnabouts in some of the more scandal-ridden and wasteful Federal agencies and programs.
Only a few years ago, the General Services Administration was racked by indictments and report after report of inefficiency and waste.
Today at GSA, Jerry Carmen has not only put the whistle-blowers back in charge, he is promoted them and given them new responsibilities.
Just listen to this little set of figures.
Today, General Services Administration work-in-progress time is down from 30 days to 7, even while the agency has sustained budget cuts of 20 percent, office space reductions of 20 percent, and the attrition of 7,000 employees.
At the Government Printing Office, under Dan Sawyer, losses of millions of dollars have suddenly been ended as the workforce was cut through attrition and a hiring freeze, and overtime pay was cut by $6 million in 1 year alone.
The Government publication program, which ran a cumulative loss of $20 million over a 3-year period, registered a $4.
9 million profit, and the GPO as a whole has experienced a profit of $4.
1 million last year.
It is said by some that this administration has turned a blind eye to waste and fraud at the Pentagon while overzealously concentrating on the social programs.
Well, at the Pentagon, under Cap Weinberger's leadership and our superb service Secretaries, Jack Marsh, John Lehman, and Verne Orr, we have identified more than a billion dollars in savings on waste and fraud and, over the next 7 years, multiyear procurement and other acquisition initiatives will save us almost $30 billion.
Now, these are only three examples of what we are attempting to do to make government more efficient.
The list goes on.
We have wielded our inspectors general as a strike force accounting for nearly $17 billion in savings in 18 months.
With Peter Grace's help, we have called on top management executives and experts from the private sector to suggest modern management techniques for every aspect of government operations.
And with an exciting new project called Reform 88, we are going to streamline and reorganize the processes that control the money, information, personnel, and property of the Federal bureaucracy  the maze through which nearly $2 trillion passes each year and which includes 350 different payroll systems and 1,750 personnel offices.
There is more, much more  from cutting down wasteful travel practices to reducing paperwork, from aggressively pursuing the $40 billion in bad debts owed the Federal Government to reducing publication of more than 70 million copies of wasteful or unnecessary government publications.
But, you know, making government responsive again to the people involves more than eliminating waste and fraud and inefficiency.
During the decades when government was intruding into areas where it is neither competent nor needed, it was also ignoring its legitimate and constitutional duties such as preserving the domestic peace and providing for the common defense.
I will talk about defense in a moment.
I know you have already heard about that today, some of you.
But on the matter of domestic order, a few things need to be said.
First of all, it is abundantly clear that much of our crime problem was provoked by a social philosophy that saw man as primarily a creature of his material environment.
The same liberal philosophy that saw an era of prosperity and virtue ushered in by changing man's environment through massive Federal spending programs also viewed criminals as the unfortunate products of poor socioeconomic conditions or an underprivileged upbringing.
Society, not the individual, they said, was at fault for criminal wrongdoing.
We were to blame.
Well, today, a new political consensus utterly rejects this point of view.
The American people demand that government exercise its legitimate and constitutional duty to punish career criminals  those who consciously choose to make their life by preying on the innocent.
Now, we conservatives have been warning about the crime problem for many years, about that permissive social philosophy that did so much to foster it, about a legal system that seemed to specialize in letting hardened criminals go free.
And now we have the means and the power to do something.
Let's get to work.
Drugpusher after drugpusher, mobster after mobster has escaped justice by taking advantage of our flawed bail and parole system.
Criminals who have committed atrocious acts have cynically utilized the technicalities of the exclusionary rule, a miscarriage of justice unique to our legal system.
Indeed, one National Institute of Justice study showed that of those arrested for drug felonies in Los Angeles County in 1981, 32 percent were back out on the streets because of perceived problems with the exclusionary rule.
Now, the exclusionary rule  that is not a law that was passed by Congress or a State legislature, it is what is called case law, the result of judicial decisions.
If a law enforcement officer obtains evidence as the result of a violation of the laws regarding search and seizure, that evidence cannot be introduced in a trial even if it proves the guilt of the accused.
Now, this is hardly punishment of the officer for his violation of legal procedures, and it is only effect, in many cases, is to free someone patently guilty of a crime.
I do not know, maybe I have told you this before, but I have to give you a glaring example of what I have taken too much time to explain here.
San Bernardino, California, several years ago: Two narcotics agents, based on the evidence that they had, obtained a legal warrant to search a home of a man and woman suspected of peddling heroin.
They searched the home.
They did not find anything.
But as they were leaving, just on a hunch, they turned back to the baby in the crib and took down the diapers, and there was the stash of heroin.
The evidence was thrown out of court and the couple went free because the baby had not given permission for the violation of its constitutional rights.
Well, this administration has proposed vital reforms of our bail and parole systems and criminal forfeiture and sentencing statutes.
These reforms were passed by the Senate 95 to 1 last year.
Our anticrime package never got out of committee in the House of Representatives.
Do you see a target there? The American people want these reforms, and they want them now.
I am asking tonight that you mobilize all the powerful resources of this political movement to get these measures passed by the Congress.
On another front, all of you know how vitally important it is for us to reverse the decline in American education, to take responsibility for the education of our children out of the hands of the bureaucrats and put it back in the hands of parents and teachers.
That's why the Congress must stop dithering.
We need those tuition tax credits.
We need a voucher system for the parents of disadvantaged children.
We need education savings accounts, a sort of IRA for college.
And finally  and do not think for a moment I have given up  we need to eliminate that unnecessary and politically engendered Department of Education.
There are other steps we are taking to restore government to its rightful duties, to restore the political consensus upon which this nation was founded.
Our Founding Fathers prohibited a Federal establishment of religion, but there is no evidence that they intended to set up a wall of separation between the state and religious belief itself.
The evidence of this is all around us.
In the Declaration of Independence, alone, there are no fewer than four mentions of a Supreme Being.
In God We Trust is engraved on our coinage.
The Supreme Court opens its proceedings with a religious invocation.
And the Congress opens each day with prayer from its chaplains.
The schoolchildren of the United States are entitled to the same privileges as Supreme Court Justices and Congressmen.
Join me in persuading the Congress to accede to the overwhelming desire of the American people for a constitutional amendment permitting prayer in our schools.
And finally, on our domestic agenda, there is a subject that weighs heavily on all of us  the tragedy of abortion on demand.
This is a grave moral evil and one that requires the fullest discussion on the floors of the House and Senate.
As we saw in the last century with the issue of slavery, any attempt by the Congress to stifle or compromise away discussion of important moral issues only further inflames emotions on both sides and leads ultimately to even more social disruption and disunity.
So, tonight, I would ask that the Congress discuss the issue of abortion openly and freely on the floors of the House and Senate.
Let those who believe the practice of abortion to be a moral evil join us in taking this case to our fellow Americans.
And let us do so rationally, calmly, and with an honest regard for our fellow Americans.
Speaking for myself, I believe that once the implications of abortion on demand are fully aired and understood by the American people, they will resolutely seek its abolition.
Now, I know there are many who sincerely believe that limiting the right of abortion violates the freedom of choice of the individual.
But if the unborn child is a living entity, then there are two individuals, each with the right to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.
Unless and until someone can prove the unborn is not alive  and all medical evidence indicates it is  then we must concede the benefit of the doubt to the unborn infant.
But whether it is cutting spending and taxing, shrinking the size of the deficit, ending overregulation, inefficiency, fraud, and waste in government, cracking down on career criminals, revitalizing American education, pressing for prayer and abortion legislation, I think you can see that the agenda we have put before America these past 2 years has been a conservative one.
Oh, and there are two other matters that I think you had be interested in.
First, as part of our federalism effort, next week we will be sending to the Congress our proposal for four megablock grants that will return vital prerogatives to the States where they belong.
And second, the Office of Management and Budget will press ahead with new regulations prohibiting the use of Federal tax dollars for purposes of political advocacy.
And these important domestic initiatives have been complemented by the conservative ideas we have brought to the pursuit of foreign policy.
In the struggle now going on for the world, we have not been afraid to characterize our adversaries for what they are.
We have focused world attention on forced labor on the Soviet pipeline and Soviet repression in Poland and all the other nations that make up what is called the fourth world  those living under totalitarian rule who long for freedom.
We publicized the evidence of chemical warfare and other atrocities in Cambodia, which we are now supposed to call Kampuchea, and in Afghanistan.
We pointed out that totalitarian powers hold a radically different view of morality and human dignity than we do.
We must develop a forward strategy for freedom, one based on our hope that someday representative government will be enjoyed by all the people and all the nations of the Earth.
We've been striving to give the world the facts about the international arms race.
Ever since our nearly total demobilization after World War II, we in the West have been playing catchup.
Yes, there is been an international arms race, as some of the declared Democratic candidates for the Presidency tell us.
But let them also tell us, there is only been one side doing the racing.
Those of you in the frontline of the conservative movement can be of special assistance in furthering our strategy for freedom, our fight against totalitarianism.
First of all, there is no more important foreign policy initiative in this administration, and none that frightens our adversaries more, than our attempts through our international radios to build constituencies for peace in nations dominated by totalitarian, militaristic regimes.
We've proposed to the Congress modest but vitally important expenditures for the Voice of America, Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty, and Radio Marti.
These proposals stalled last year, but with your help we can get them through the Congress this year.
And believe me, nothing could mean more to the Poles, Lithuanians, Cubans, and all the millions of others living in that fourth world.
Now, it would be also unconscionable during any discussion of the need for candor in our foreign policy not to mention here the tragic event that last year shocked the world  the attack on His Holiness, Pope John Paul II  an act of unspeakable evil, an assault on man and God.
It was an international outrage and merits the fullest possible investigation.
Tonight, I want to take this opportunity to applaud the courage and resourcefulness of the Government of Italy in bringing this matter to the attention of the world.
And, contrary to what some have suggested, you can depend on it, there is no one on our side that is acting embarrassed or feeling embarrassed because they are going ahead with that investigation.
We mean to help them.
And, now, Cap, you can breathe easy, because here we come.
We must continue to revitalize and strengthen our Armed Forces.
Cap Weinberger's been waging an heroic's battle on this front.
I am asking you, the conservative leaders here tonight, to make support for our defense buildup one of your top priorities.
But besides progress in furthering all of these items on the conservative agenda, something else is occurring  something that someday we conservatives may be very proud happened under our leadership.
Even with all our recent economic hardships, I believe a feeling of optimism is now entering the American consciousness, a belief that the days of division and discord are behind us and that an era of unity and national renewal is upon us.
A vivid reminder of how our nation has learned and grown and transcended the tragedies of the past was given to us here in Washington only a few months ago.
Last November, on the Mall, between the Lincoln Memorial and the Washington Monument, a new memorial was dedicated  one of dark, low-lying walls inscribed with the names of those who gave their lives in the Vietnam conflict.
Soon, there will be added a sculpture of three infantrymen representing different racial and ethnic backgrounds.
During the dedication ceremonies, the rolls of the missing and dead were read for 3 days, morning till night, in a candlelight ceremony at the National Cathedral.
And those veterans of Vietnam who were never welcomed home with speeches and bands, but who were undefeated in battle and were heroes as surely as any who ever fought in a noble cause, staged their own parade on Constitution Avenue.
As America watched them, some in wheelchairs, all of them proud, there was a feeling that as a nation we were coming together, coming together again, and that we had at long last brought the boys home.
A lot of healing.
went on, said Jan Scruggs, the wounded combat veteran who helped organize support for the memorial.
And then there was this newspaper account that appeared after the ceremonies.
I had like to read it to you.
Yesterday, crowds returned to the memorial.
Among them was Herbie Petit, a machinist and former marine from New Orleans.
'Last night,' he said, standing near the wall, 'I went out to dinner with some ex-marines.
There was also a group of college students in the restaurant.
We started talking to each other, and before we left, they stood up and cheered.
'The whole week,' Petit said, his eyes red, 'it was worth it just for that.
'It has been worth it.
We Americans have learned again to listen to each other, to trust each other.
We've learned that government owes the people an explanation and needs their support for its actions at home and abroad.
And we have learned  and I pray this time for good  that we must never again send our young men to fight and die in conflicts that our leaders are not prepared to win.
Thank you very much.
Yet, the most valuable lesson of all, the preciousness of human freedom, has been relearned not just by Americans but all the people of the world.
It is the stark lesson that Truongs Nhu Tang, one of the founders of the National Liberation Front, a former Viet Cong minister and vice-minister of the postwar Vietnamese Communist government, spoke of recently when he explained why he fled Vietnam for freedom.
No previous regime in my country, he wrote about the concentration camps and boat people of Vietnam, brought such numbers of people to such desperation.
Not the military dictators, not the colonialists, not even the ancient Chinese warlords.
It is a lesson that my compatriots and I learned through witnessing and through suffering in our own lives the fate of our countrymen.
It is a lesson that must eventually move the conscience of the world.
This man who had fought on the other side learned the value of freedom only after helping to destroy it and seeing those who had had to give it up.
The task that has fallen to us as Americans is to move the conscience of the world, to keep alive the hope and dream of freedom.
For if we fail or falter, there'll be no place for the world's oppressed to flee to.
This is not a role we sought.
We preach no manifest destiny.
But like the Americans who brought a new nation into the world 200 years ago, history has asked much of us in our time.
Much we have already given; much more we must be prepared to give.
This is not a task we shrink from; it is a task we welcome.
For with the privilege of living in this kindly, pleasant, greening land called America, this land of generous spirit and great ideals, there is also a destiny and a duty, a duty to preserve and hold in sacred trust mankind's age-old aspirations of peace and freedom and a better life for generations to come.
God bless you all, and thank you for what you are doing.
Speaker,  President, distinguished Members of the Congress, honored guests, and fellow citizens:This solemn occasion marks the 196th time that a President of the United States has reported on the State of the Union since George Washington first did so in 1790.
That's a lot of reports, but there is no shortage of new things to say about the State of the Union.
The very key to our success has been our ability, foremost among nations, to preserve our lasting values by making change work for us rather than against us.
I would like to talk with you this evening about what we can do together  not as Republicans and Democrats, but as Americans-to make tomorrow's America happy and prosperous at home, strong and respected abroad, and at peace in the world.
As we gather here tonight, the state of our Union is strong, but our economy is troubled.
For too many of our fellow citizens-farmers, steel and auto workers, lumbermen, black teenagers, working mothers-this is a painful period.
We must all do everything in our power to bring their ordeal to an end.
It has fallen to us, in our time, to undo damage that was a long time in the making, and to begin the hard but necessary task of building a better future for ourselves and our children.
We have a long way to go, but thanks to the courage, patience, and strength of our people, America is on the mend.
But let me give you just one important reason why I believe this  it involves many members of this body.
Just 10 days ago, after months of debate and deadlock, the bipartisan Commission on Social Security accomplished the seemingly impossible.
Social security, as some of us had warned for so long, faced disaster.
I, myself, have been talking about this problem for almost 30 years.
As 1983 began, the system stood on the brink of bankruptcy, a double victim of our economic ills.
First, a decade of rampant inflation drained its reserves as we tried to protect beneficiaries from the spiraling cost of living.
Then the recession and the sudden end of inflation withered the expanding wage base and increasing revenues the system needs to support the 36 million Americans who depend on it.
When the Speaker of the House, the Senate majority leader, and I performed the bipartisan  or formed the bipartisan Commission on Social Security, pundits and experts predicted that party divisions and conflicting interests would prevent the Commission from agreeing on a plan to save social security.
Well, sometimes, even here in Washington, the cynics are wrong.
Through compromise and cooperation, the members of the Commission overcame their differences and achieved a fair, workable plan.
They proved that, when it comes to the national welfare, Americans can still pull together for the common good.
Tonight, I am especially pleased to join with the Speaker and the Senate majority leader in urging the Congress to enact this plan by Easter.
There are elements in it, of course, that none of us prefers, but taken together it performs a package that all of us can support.
It asks for some sacrifice by all  the self-employed, beneficiaries, workers, government employees, and the better-off among the retired  but it imposes an undue burden on none.
And, in supporting it, we keep an important pledge to the American people: The integrity of the social security system will be preserved, and no one's payments will be reduced.
The Commission's plan will do the job; indeed, it must do the job.
We owe it to today's older Americans and today's younger workers.
So, before we go any further, I ask you to join with me in saluting the members of the Commission who are here tonight and Senate Majority Leader Howard Baker and Speaker Tip O'Neill for a job well done.
I hope and pray the bipartisan spirit that guided you in this endeavor will inspire all of us as we face the challenges of the year ahead.
Nearly half a century ago, in this Chamber, another American President, Franklin Delano Roosevelt, in his second State of the Union message, urged America to look to the future, to meet the challenge of change and the need for leadership that looks forward, not backward.
Throughout the world, he said, change is the order of the day.
In every nation economic problems long in the making have brought crises to  many kinds for which the masters of old practice and theory were unprepared.
He also reminded us that the future lies with those wise political leaders who realize that the great public is interested more in Government than in politics.
So, let us, in these next two years  men and women of both parties, every political shade  concentrate on the long-range, bipartisan responsibilities of government, not the short-range or short-term temptations of partisan politics.
The problems we inherited were far worse than most inside and out of government had expected; the recession was deeper than most inside and out of government had predicted.
Curing those problems has taken more time and a higher toll than any of us wanted.
Unemployment is far too high.
Projected Federal spending  if government refuses to tighten its own belt-will also be far too high and could weaken and shorten the economic recovery now underway.
This recovery will bring with it a revival of economic confidence and spending for consumer items and capital goods  the stimulus we need to restart our stalled economic engines.
The American people have already stepped up their rate of saving, assuring that the funds needed to modernize our factories and improve our technology will once again flow to business and industry.
The inflationary expectations that led to a 21 1/2-percent interest prime rate and soaring mortgage rates 2 years ago are now reduced by almost half.
Leaders have started to realize that double-digit inflation is no longer a way of life.
I misspoke there.
I should have said lenders.
So, interest rates have tumbled, paving the way for recovery in vital industries like housing and autos.
The early evidence of that recovery has started coming in.
Housing starts for the fourth quarter of 1982 were up 45 percent from a year ago, and housing permits, a sure indicator of future growth, were up a whopping 60 percent.
We're witnessing an upsurge of productivity and impressive evidence that American industry will once again become competitive in markets at home and abroad, ensuring more jobs and better incomes for the Nation's work force.
But our confidence must also be tempered by realism and patience.
Quick fixes and artificial stimulants repeatedly applied over decades are what brought us the inflationary disorders that we have now paid such a heavy price to cure.
The permanent recovery in employment, production, and investment we seek will not come in a sharp, short spurt.
It'll build carefully and steadily in the months and years ahead.
In the meantime, the challenge of government is to identify the things that we can do now to ease the massive economic transition for the American people.
The federal budget is both a symptom and a cause of our economic problems.
Unless we reduce the dangerous growth rate in government spending, we could face the prospect of sluggish economic growth into the indefinite future.
Failure to cope with this problem now could mean as much as a trillion dollars more in national debt in the next four years alone.
That would average $4,300 in additional debt for every man, woman, child, and baby in our nation.
To assure a sustained recovery, we must continue getting runaway spending under control to bring those deficits down.
If we do not, the recovery will be too short, unemployment will remain too high, and we will leave an unconscionable burden of national debt for our children.
That we must not do.
Let's be clear about where the deficit problem comes from.
Contrary to the drumbeat we have been hearing for the last few months, the deficits we face are not rooted in defense spending.
Taken as a percentage of the gross national product, our defense spending happens to be only about four-fifths of what it was in 1970.
Nor is the deficit, as some would have it, rooted in tax cuts.
Even with our tax cuts, taxes as a fraction of gross national product remain about the same as they were in 1970.
The fact is, our deficits come from the uncontrolled growth of the budget for domestic spending.
During the 1970's, the share of our national income devoted to this domestic spending increased by more than 60 percent, from 10 cents out of every dollar produced by the American people to 16 cents.
In spite of all our economies and efficiencies, and without adding any new programs, basic, necessary domestic spending provided for in this year's budget will grow to almost a trillion dollars over the next 5 years.
The deficit problem is a clear and present danger to the basic health of our Republic.
We need a plan to overcome this danger  a plan based on these principles.
It must be bipartisan.
Conquering the deficits and putting the Government's house in order will require the best effort of all of us.
It must be fair.
Just as all will share in the benefits that will come from recovery, all would share fairly in the burden of transition.
It must be prudent.
The strength of our national defense must be restored so that we can pursue prosperity and peace and freedom while maintaining our commitment to the truly needy.
And finally, it must be realistic.
We cannot rely on hope alone.
With these guiding principles in mind, let me outline a four-part plan to increase economic growth and reduce deficits.
First, in my budget message, I will recommend a Federal spending freeze.
I know this is strong medicine, but so far, we have only cut the rate of increase in Federal spending.
The Government has continued to spend more money each year, though not as much more as it did in the past.
Taken as a whole, the budget I am proposing for the fiscal year will increase no more than the rate of inflation.
In other words, the Federal Government will hold the line on real spending.
Now, that is far less than many American families have had to do in these difficult times.
I will request that the proposed 6-month freeze in cost-of-living adjustments recommended by the bipartisan Social Security Commission be applied to other government-related retirement programs.
I will, also, propose a 1-year freeze on a broad range of domestic spending programs, and for Federal civilian and military pay and pension programs.
And let me say right here, I am sorry, with regard to the military, in asking that of them, because for so many years they have been so far behind and so low in reward for what the men and women in uniform are doing.
But I am sure they will understand that this must be across the board and fair.
Second, I will ask the Congress to adopt specific measures to control the growth of the so-called uncontrollable spending programs.
These are the automatic spending programs, such as food stamps, that cannot be simply frozen and that have grown by over 400 percent since 1970.
They are the largest single cause of the built-in or structural deficit problem.
Our standard here will be fairness, ensuring that the taxpayers' hard-earned dollars go only to the truly needy; that none of them are turned away, but that fraud and waste are stamped out.
And I am sorry to say, there is a lot of it out there.
In the food stamp program alone, last year, we identified almost 1.
1 billion in overpayments.
The taxpayers are not the only victims of this kind of abuse.
The truly needy suffer as funds intended for them are taken not by the needy, but by the greedy.
For everyone's sake, we must put an end to such waste and corruption.
Third, I will adjust our program to restore America's defenses by proposing $55 billion in defense savings over the next 5 years.
These are savings recommended to me by the Secretary of Defense, who has assured me they can be safely achieved and will not diminish our ability to negotiate arms reductions or endanger America's security.
We will not gamble with our national survival.
And fourth, because we must ensure reduction and eventual elimination of deficits over the next several years, I will propose a standby tax, limited to no more than 1 percent of the gross national product, to start in fiscal 1986.
It would last no more than 3 years, and it would start only if the Congress has first approved our spending freeze and budget control program.
And there are several other conditions also that must be met, all of them in order for this program to be triggered.
Now, you could say that this is an insurance policy for the future, a remedy that will be at hand if needed but only resorted to if absolutely necessary.
In the meantime, we will continue to study ways to simplify the tax code and make it more fair for all Americans.
This is a goal that every American who is ever struggled with a tax form can understand.
At the same time, however, I will oppose any efforts to undo the basic tax reforms that we have already enacted, including the 10-percent tax break coming to taxpayers this July and the tax indexing which will protect all Americans from inflationary bracket creep in the years ahead.
Now, I realize that this four-part plan is easier to describe than it will be to enact.
But the looming deficits that hang over us and over America's future must be reduced.
The path I have outlined is fair, balanced, and realistic.
If enacted, it will ensure a steady decline in deficits, aiming toward a balanced budget by the end of the decade.
It's the only path that will lead to a strong, sustained recovery.
Let us follow that path together.
No domestic challenge is more crucial than providing stable, permanent jobs for all Americans who want to work.
The recovery program will provide jobs for most, but others will need special help and training for new skills.
Shortly, I will submit to the Congress the Employment Act of 1983, designed to get at the special problems of the long-term unemployed, as well as young people trying to enter the job market.
I will propose extending unemployment benefits, including special incentives to employers who hire the long-term unemployed, providing programs for displaced workers, and helping federally funded and State-administered unemployment insurance programs provide workers with training and relocation assistance.
Finally, our proposal will include new incentives for summer youth employment to help young people get a start in the job market.
We must offer both short-term help and long-term hope for our unemployed.
I hope we can work together on this.
I hope we can work together as we did last year in enacting the landmark Job Training Partnership Act.
Regulatory reform legislation, a responsible clean air act, and passage of enterprise zone legislation will also create new incentives for jobs and opportunity.
One of out of every five jobs in our country depends on trade.
So, I will propose a broader strategy in the field of international trade  one that increases the openness of our trading system and is fairer to America's farmers and workers in the world marketplace.
We must have adequate export financing to sell American products overseas.
I will ask for new negotiating authority to remove barriers and to get more of our products into foreign markets.
We must strengthen the organization of our trade agencies and make changes in our domestic laws and international trade policy to promote free trade and the increased flow of American goods, services, and investments.
Our trade position can also be improved by making our port system more efficient.
Better, more active harbors translate into stable jobs in our coalfields, railroads, trucking industry, and ports.
After 2 years of debate, it is time for us to get together and enact a port modernization bill.
Education, training, and retraining are fundamental to our success as are research and development and productivity.
Labor, management, and government at all levels can and must participate in improving these tools of growth.
Tax policy, regulatory practices, and government programs all need constant reevaluation in terms of our competitiveness.
Every American has a role and a stake in international trade.
We Americans are still the technological leaders in most fields.
We must keep that edge, and to do so we need to begin renewing the basics  starting with our educational system.
While we grew complacent, others have acted.
Japan, with a population only about half the size of ours, graduates from its universities more engineers than we do.
If a child does not receive adequate math and science teaching by the age of 16, he or she has lost the chance to be a scientist or an engineer.
We must join together-parents, teachers, grass roots groups, organized labor, and the business community-to revitalize American education by setting a standard of excellence.
In 1983 we seek four major education goals: a quality education initiative to encourage a substantial upgrading of math and science instruction through block grants to the States; establishment of education savings accounts that will give middle and lower-income families an incentive to save for their children's college education and, at the same time, encourage a real increase in savings for economic growth; passage of tuition tax credits for parents who want to send their children to private or religiously affiliated schools; a constitutional amendment to permit voluntary school prayer.
God should never have been expelled from America's classrooms in the first place.
Our commitment to fairness means that we must assure legal and economic equity for women, and eliminate, once and for all, all traces of unjust discrimination against women from the United States Code.
We will not tolerate wage discrimination based on sex, and we intend to strengthen enforcement of child support laws to ensure that single parents, most of whom are women, do not suffer unfair financial hardship.
We will also take action to remedy inequities in pensions.
These initiatives will be joined by others to continue our efforts to promote equity for women.
Also in the area of fairness and equity, we will ask for extension of the Civil Rights Commission, which is due to expire this year.
The Commission is an important part of the ongoing struggle for justice in America, and we strongly support its reauthorization.
Effective enforcement of our nation's fair housing laws is also essential to ensuring equal opportunity.
In the year ahead, we will work to strengthen enforcement of fair housing laws for all Americans.
The time has also come for major reform of our criminal justice statutes and acceleration of the drive against organized crime and drug trafficking.
It's high time that we make our cities safe again.
This administration hereby declares an all-out war on big-time organized crime and the drug racketeers who are poisoning our young people.
We will also implement recommendations of our Task Force on Victims of Crime, which will report to me this week.
American agriculture, the envy of the world, has become the victim of its own successes.
With one farmer now producing enough food to feed himself and 77 other people, America is confronted with record surplus crops and commodity prices below the cost of production.
We must strive, through innovations like the payment-in-kind crop swap approach and an aggressive export policy, to restore health and vitality to rural America.
Meanwhile, I have instructed the Department of Agriculture to work individually with farmers with debt problems to help them through these tough times.
Over the past year, our Task Force on Private Sector Initiatives has successfully forged a working partnership involving leaders of business, labor, education, and government to address the training needs of American workers.
Thanks to the Task Force, private sector initiatives are now underway in all 50 States of the Union, and thousands of working people have been helped in making the shift from dead-end jobs and low-demand skills to the growth areas of high technology and the service economy.
Additionally, a major effort will be focused on encouraging the expansion of private community child care.
The new advisory council on private sector initiatives will carry on and extend this vital work of encouraging private initiative in 1983.
In the coming year, we will also act to improve the quality of life for Americans by curbing the skyrocketing cost of health care that is becoming an unbearable financial burden for so many.
And we will submit legislation to provide catastrophic illness insurance coverage for older Americans.
I will also shortly submit a comprehensive federalism proposal that will continue our efforts to restore to States and local governments their roles as dynamic laboratories of change in a creative society.
During the next several weeks, I will send to the Congress a series of detailed proposals on these and other topics and look forward to working with you on the development of these initiatives.
So far, now, I have concentrated mainly on the problems posed by the future.
But in almost every home and workplace in America, we are already witnessing reason for great hope  the first flowering of the manmade miracles of high technology, a field pioneered and still led by our country.
To many of us now, computers, silicon chips, data processing, cybernetics, and all the other innovations of the dawning high technology age are as mystifying as the workings of the combustion engine must have been when that first Model T rattled down Main Street, U.
SA But as surely as America's pioneer spirit made us the industrial giant of the 20th century, the same pioneer spirit today is opening up on another vast front of opportunity, the frontier of high technology.
In conquering the frontier we cannot write off our traditional industries, but we must develop the skills and industries that will make us a pioneer of tomorrow.
This administration is committed to keeping America the technological leader of the world now and into the 21st century.
But let us turn briefly to the international arena.
America's leadership in the world came to us because of our own strength and because of the values which guide us as a society: free elections, a free press, freedom of religious choice, free trade unions, and above all, freedom for the individual and rejection of the arbitrary power of the state.
These values are the bedrock of our strength.
They unite us in a stewardship of peace and freedom with our allies and friends in NATO, in Asia, in Latin America, and elsewhere.
They are also the values which in the recent past some among us had begun to doubt and view with a cynical eye.
Fortunately, we and our allies have rediscovered the strength of our common democratic values, and we are applying them as a cornerstone of a comprehensive strategy for peace with freedom.
In London last year, I announced the commitment of the United States to developing the infrastructure of democracy throughout the world.
We intend to pursue this democratic initiative vigorously.
The future belongs not to governments and ideologies which oppress their peoples, but to democratic systems of self-government which encourage individual initiative and guarantee personal freedom.
But our strategy for peace with freedom must also be based on strength  economic strength and military strength.
A strong American economy is essential to the well-being and security of our friends and allies.
The restoration of a strong, healthy American economy has been and remains one of the central pillars of our foreign policy.
The progress I have been able to report to you tonight will, I know, be as warmly welcomed by the rest of the world as it is by the American people.
We must also recognize that our own economic well-being is inextricably linked to the world economy.
We export over 20 percent of our industrial production, and 40 percent of our farmland produces for export.
We will continue to work closely with the industrialized democracies of Europe and Japan and with the International Monetary Fund to ensure it has adequate resources to help bring the world economy back to strong, noninflationary growth.
As the leader of the West and as a country that has become great and rich because of economic freedom, America must be an unrelenting advocate of free trade.
As some nations are tempted to turn to protectionism, our strategy cannot be to follow them, but to lead the way toward freer trade.
To this end, in May of this year America will host an economic summit meeting in Williamsburg, Virginia.
As we begin our third year, we have put in place a defense program that redeems the neglect of the past decade.
We have developed a realistic military strategy to deter threats to peace and to protect freedom if deterrence fails.
Our Armed Forces are finally properly paid; after years of neglect are well trained and becoming better equipped and supplied.
And the American uniform is once again worn with pride.
Most of the major systems needed for modernizing our defenses are already underway, and we will be addressing one key system, the MX missile, in consultation with the Congress in a few months.
America's foreign policy is once again based on bipartisanship, on realism, strength, full partnership, in consultation with our allies, and constructive negotiation with potential adversaries.
From the Middle East to southern Africa to Geneva, American diplomats are taking the initiative to make peace and lower arms levels.
We should be proud of our role as peacemakers.
In the Middle East last year, the United States played the major role in ending the tragic fighting in Lebanon and negotiated the withdrawal of the PLO from Beirut.
Last September, I outlined principles to carry on the peace process begun so promisingly at Camp David.
All the people of the Middle East should know that in the year ahead we will not flag in our efforts to build on that foundation to bring them the blessings of peace.
In Central America and the Caribbean Basin, we are likewise engaged in a partnership for peace, prosperity, and democracy.
Final passage of the remaining portions of our Caribbean Basin Initiative, which passed the House last year, is one of this administration's top legislative priorities for 1983.
The security and economic assistance policies of this administration in Latin America and elsewhere are based on realism and represent a critical investment in the future of the human race.
This undertaking is a joint responsibility of the executive and legislative branches, and I am counting on the cooperation and statesmanship of the Congress to help us meet this essential foreign policy goal.
At the heart of our strategy for peace is our relationship with the Soviet Union.
The past year saw a change in Soviet leadership.
We're prepared for a positive change in Soviet-American relations.
But the Soviet Union must show by deeds as well as words a sincere commitment to respect the rights and sovereignty of the family of nations.
Responsible members of the world community do not threaten or invade their neighbors.
And they restrain their allies from aggression.
For our part, we are vigorously pursuing arms reduction negotiations with the Soviet Union.
Supported by our allies, we have put forward draft agreements proposing significant weapon reductions to equal and verifiable lower levels.
We insist on an equal balance of forces.
And given the overwhelming evidence of Soviet violations of international treaties concerning chemical and biological weapons, we also insist that any agreement we sign can and will be verifiable.
In the case of intermediate-range nuclear forces, we have proposed the complete elimination of the entire class of land-based missiles.
We're also prepared to carefully explore serious Soviet proposals.
At the same time, let me emphasize that allied steadfastness remains a key to achieving arms reductions.
With firmness and dedication, we will continue to negotiate.
Deep down, the Soviets must know it is in their interest as well as ours to prevent a wasteful arms race.
And once they recognize our unshakable resolve to maintain adequate deterrence, they will have every reason to join us in the search for greater security and major arms reductions.
When that moment comes  and I am confident that it will  we will have taken an important step toward a more peaceful future for all the world's people.
A very wise man, Bernard Baruch, once said that America has never forgotten the nobler things that brought her into being and that light her path.
Our country is a special place, because we Americans have always been sustained, through good times and bad, by a noble vision  a vision not only of what the world around us is today but what we as a free people can make it be tomorrow.
We're realists; we solve our problems instead of ignoring them, no matter how loud the chorus of despair around us.
But we are also idealists, for it was an ideal that brought our ancestors to these shores from every corner of the world.
Right now we need both realism and idealism.
Millions of our neighbors are without work.
It is up to us to see they are not without hope.
This is a task for all of us.
And may I say, Americans have rallied to this cause, proving once again that we are the most generous people on Earth.
We who are in government must take the lead in restoring the economy.
And here all that time, I thought you were reading the paper.
The single thing  the single thing that can start the wheels of industry turning again is further reduction of interest rates.
Just another 1 or 2 points can mean tens of thousands of jobs.
Right now, with inflation as low as it is, 3.
9 percent, there is room for interest rates to come down.
Only fear prevents their reduction.
A lender, as we know, must charge an interest rate that recovers the depreciated value of the dollars loaned.
And that depreciation is, of course, the amount of inflation.
Today, interest rates are based on fear  fear that government will resort to measures, as it has in the past, that will send inflation zooming again.
We who serve here in this Capital must erase that fear by making it absolutely clear that we will not stop fighting inflation; that, together, we will do only those things that will lead to lasting economic growth.
Yes, the problems confronting us are large and forbidding.
And, certainly, no one can or should minimize the plight of millions of our friends and neighbors who are living in the bleak emptiness of unemployment.
But we must and can give them good reason to be hopeful.
Back over the years, citizens like ourselves have gathered within these walls when our nation was threatened; sometimes when its very existence was at stake.
Always with courage and common sense, they met the crises of their time and lived to see a stronger, better, and more prosperous country.
The present situation is no worse and, in fact, is not as bad as some of those they faced.
Time and again, they proved that there is nothing we Americans cannot achieve as free men and women.
Yes, we still have problems  plenty of them.
But it is just plain wrong  unjust to our country and unjust to our people  to let those problems stand in the way of the most important truth of all: America is on the mend.
We owe it to the unfortunate to be aware of their plight and to help them in every way we can.
No one can quarrel with that.
We must and do have compassion for all the victims of this economic crisis.
But the big story about America today is the way that millions of confident, caring people-those extraordinary ordinary Americans who never make the headlines and will never be interviewed  are laying the foundation, not just for recovery from our present problems but for a better tomorrow for all our people.
From coast to coast, on the job and in classrooms and laboratories, at new construction sites and in churches and community groups, neighbors are helping neighbors.
And they have already begun the building, the research, the work, and the giving that will make our country great again.
I believe this, because I believe in them-in the strength of their hearts and minds, in the commitment that each one of them brings to their daily lives, be they high or humble.
The challenge for us in government is to be worthy of them  to make government a help, not a hindrance to our people in the challenging but promising days ahead.
If we do that, if we care what our children and our children's children will say of us, if we want them one day to be thankful for what we did here in these temples of freedom, we will work together to make America better for our having been here-not just in this year or this decade but in the next century and beyond.
Thank you, and God bless you.
Reverend clergy all, Senator Hawkins, distinguished members of the Florida congressional delegation, and all of you: I cannot tell you how you have warmed my heart with your welcome.
I am delighted to be here today.
Those of you in the National Association of Evangelicals are known for your spiritual and humanitarian work.
And I would be especially remiss if I did not discharge right now one personal debt of gratitude.
Thank you for your prayers.
Nancy and I have felt their presence many times in many ways.
And believe me, for us they have made all the difference.
The other day in the East Room of the White House at a meeting there, someone asked me whether I was aware of all the people out there who were praying for the President.
And I had to say, Yes, I am.
I have felt it.
I believe in intercessionary prayer.
But I could not help but say to that questioner after he had asked the question that  or at least say to them that if sometime when he was praying he got a busy signal, it was just me in there ahead of him.
I think I understand how Abraham Lincoln felt when he said, I have been driven many times to my knees by the overwhelming conviction that I had nowhere else to go.
From the joy and the good feeling of this conference, I go to a political reception.
Now, I do not know why, but that bit of scheduling reminds me of a story    which I will share with you.
An evangelical minister and a politician arrived at Heaven's gate one day together.
And  Peter, after doing all the necessary formalities, took them in hand to show them where their quarters would be.
And he took them to a small, single room with a bed, a chair, and a table and said this was for the clergyman.
And the politician was a little worried about what might be in store for him.
And he could not believe it then when  Peter stopped in front of a beautiful mansion with lovely grounds, many servants, and told him that these would be his quarters.
And he could not help but ask, he said, But wait, how  there is something wrong  how do I get this mansion while that good and holy man only gets a single room? And  Peter said, You have to understand how things are up here.
We've got thousands and thousands of clergy.
You're the first politician who ever made it.
But I do not want to contribute to a stereotype.
So, I tell you there are a great many God-fearing, dedicated, noble men and women in public life, present company included.
And, yes, we need your help to keep us ever mindful of the ideas and the principles that brought us into the public arena in the first place.
The basis of those ideals and principles is a commitment to freedom and personal liberty that, itself, is grounded in the much deeper realization that freedom prospers only where the blessings of God are avidly sought and humbly accepted.
The American experiment in democracy rests on this insight.
Its discovery was the great triumph of our Founding Fathers, voiced by William Penn when he said: If we will not be governed by God, we must be governed by tyrants.
Explaining the inalienable rights of men, Jefferson said, The God who gave us life, gave us liberty at the same time.
And it was George Washington who said that of all the dispositions and habits which lead to political prosperity, religion and morality are indispensable supports.
And finally, that shrewdest of all observers of American democracy, Alexis de Tocqueville, put it eloquently after he had gone on a search for the secret of America's greatness and genius  and he said: Not until I went into the churches of America and heard her pulpits aflame with righteousness did I understand the greatness and the genius of America.
America is good.
And if America ever ceases to be good, America will cease to be great.
Well, I am pleased to be here today with you who are keeping America great by keeping her good.
Only through your work and prayers and those of millions of others can we hope to survive this perilous century and keep alive this experiment in liberty, this last, best hope of man.
I want you to know that this administration is motivated by a political philosophy that sees the greatness of America in you, her people, and in your families, churches, neighborhoods, communities  the institutions that foster and nourish values like concern for others and respect for the rule of law under God.
Now, I do not have to tell you that this puts us in opposition to, or at least out of step with, a prevailing attitude of many who have turned to a modern-day secularism, discarding the tried and time-tested values upon which our very civilization is based.
No matter how well intentioned, their value system is radically different from that of most Americans.
And while they proclaim that they are freeing us from superstitions of the past, they have taken upon themselves the job of superintending us by government rule and regulation.
Sometimes their voices are louder than ours, but they are not yet a majority.
An example of that vocal superiority is evident in a controversy now going on in Washington.
And since I am involved, I have been waiting to hear from the parents of young America.
How far are they willing to go in giving to government their prerogatives as parents? Let me state the case as briefly and simply as I can.
An organization of citizens, sincerely motivated and deeply concerned about the increase in illegitimate births and abortions involving girls well below the age of consent, sometime ago established a nationwide network of clinics to offer help to these girls and, hopefully, alleviate this situation.
Now, again, let me say, I do not fault their intent.
However, in their well-intentioned effort, these clinics have decided to provide advice and birth control drugs and devices to underage girls without the knowledge of their parents.
For some years now, the federal government has helped with funds to subsidize these clinics.
In providing for this, the Congress decreed that every effort would be made to maximize parental participation.
Nevertheless, the drugs and devices are prescribed without getting parental consent or giving notification after they have done so.
Girls termed sexually active  and that has replaced the word promiscuous  are given this help in order to prevent illegitimate birth or abortion.
Well, we have ordered clinics receiving federal funds to notify the parents such help has been given.
One of the nation's leading newspapers has created the term squeal rule in editorializing against us for doing this, and we are being criticized for violating the privacy of young people.
A judge has recently granted an injunction against an enforcement of our rule.
I have watched TV panel shows discuss this issue, seen columnists pontificating on our error, but no one seems to mention morality as playing a part in the subject of sex.
Is all of Judeo-Christian tradition wrong? Are we to believe that something so sacred can be looked upon as a purely physical thing with no potential for emotional and psychological harm? And is not it the parents' right to give counsel and advice to keep their children from making mistakes that may affect their entire lives? Many of us in government would like to know what parents think about this intrusion in their family by government.
We're going to fight in the courts.
The right of parents and the rights of family take precedence over those of Washington-based bureaucrats and social engineers.
But the fight against parental notification is really only one example of many attempts to water down traditional values and even abrogate the original terms of American democracy.
Freedom prospers when religion is vibrant and the rule of law under God is acknowledged.
When our Founding Fathers passed the first amendment, they sought to protect churches from government interference.
They never intended to construct a wall of hostility between government and the concept of religious belief itself.
The evidence of this permeates our history and our government.
The Declaration of Independence mentions the Supreme Being no less than four times.
In God We Trust is engraved on our coinage.
The Supreme Court opens its proceedings with a religious invocation.
And the members of Congress open their sessions with a prayer.
I just happen to believe the schoolchildren of the United States are entitled to the same privileges as Supreme Court Justices and Congressmen.
Last year, I sent the Congress a constitutional amendment to restore prayer to public schools.
Already this session, there is growing bipartisan support for the amendment, and I am calling on the Congress to act speedily to pass it and to let our children pray.
Perhaps some of you read recently about the Lubbock school case, where a judge actually ruled that it was unconstitutional for a school district to give equal treatment to religious and nonreligious student groups, even when the group meetings were being held during the students' own time.
The first amendment never intended to require government to discriminate against religious speech.
Senators Denton and Hatfield have proposed legislation in the Congress on the whole question of prohibiting discrimination against religious forms of student speech.
Such legislation could go far to restore freedom of religious speech for public school students.
And I hope the Congress considers these bills quickly.
And with your help, I think it is possible we could also get the constitutional amendment through the Congress this year.
More than a decade ago, a Supreme Court decision literally wiped off the books of 50 states statutes protecting the rights of unborn children.
Abortion on demand now takes the lives of up to one and a half million unborn children a year.
Human life legislation ending this tragedy will some day pass the Congress, and you and I must never rest until it does.
Unless and until it can be proven that the unborn child is not a living entity, then its right to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness must be protected.
You may remember that when abortion on demand began, many, and, indeed, I am sure many of you, warned that the practice would lead to a decline in respect for human life, that the philosophical premises used to justify abortion on demand would ultimately be used to justify other attacks on the sacredness of human life  infanticide or mercy killing.
Tragically enough, those warnings proved all too true.
Only last year a court permitted the death by starvation of a handicapped infant.
I have directed the Health and Human Services Department to make clear to every health care facility in the United States that the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 protects all handicapped persons against discrimination based on handicaps, including infants.
And we have taken the further step of requiring that each and every recipient of federal funds who provides health care services to infants must post and keep posted in a conspicuous place a notice stating that discriminatory failure to feed and care for handicapped infants in this facility is prohibited by federal law.
It also lists a 24-hour, toll-free number so that nurses and others may report violations in time to save the infant's life.
In addition, recent legislation introduced in the Congress by Representative Henry Hyde of Illinois not only increases restrictions on publicly financed abortions, it also addresses this whole problem of infanticide.
I urge the Congress to begin hearings and to adopt legislation that will protect the right of life to all children, including the disabled or handicapped.
Now, I am sure that you must get discouraged at times, but you have done better than you know, perhaps.
There's a great spiritual awakening in America, a renewal of the traditional values that have been the bedrock of America's goodness and greatness.
One recent survey by a Washington-based research council concluded that Americans were far more religious than the people of other nations; 95 percent of those surveyed expressed a belief in God and a huge majority believed the Ten Commandments had real meaning in their lives.
And another study has found that an overwhelming majority of Americans disapprove of adultery, teenage sex, pornography, abortion, and hard drugs.
And this same study showed a deep reverence for the importance of family ties and religious belief.
I think the items that we have discussed here today must be a key part of the nation's political agenda.
For the first time the Congress is openly and seriously debating and dealing with the prayer and abortion issues  and that is enormous progress right there.
I repeat: America is in the midst of a spiritual awakening and a moral renewal.
And with your biblical keynote, I say today, Yes, let justice roll on like a river, righteousness like a never-failing stream.
Now, obviously, much of this new political and social consensus I have talked about is based on a positive view of American history, one that takes pride in our country's accomplishments and record.
But we must never forget that no government schemes are going to perfect man.
We know that living in this world means dealing with what philosophers would call the phenomenology of evil or, as theologians would put it, the doctrine of sin.
There is sin and evil in the world, and we are enjoined by Scripture and the Lord Jesus to oppose it with all our might.
Our nation, too, has a legacy of evil with which it must deal.
The glory of this land has been its capacity for transcending the moral evils of our past.
For example, the long struggle of minority citizens for equal rights, once a source of disunity and civil war, is now a point of pride for all Americans.
We must never go back.
There is no room for racism, anti-Semitism, or other forms of ethnic and racial hatred in this country.
I know that you have been horrified, as have I, by the resurgence of some hate groups preaching bigotry and prejudice.
Use the mighty voice of your pulpits and the powerful standing of your churches to denounce and isolate these hate groups in our midst.
The commandment given us is clear and simple: Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself.
But whatever sad episodes exist in our past, any objective observer must hold a positive view of American history, a history that has been the story of hopes fulfilled and dreams made into reality.
Especially in this century, America has kept alight the torch of freedom, but not just for ourselves but for millions of others around the world.
And this brings me to my final point today.
During my first press conference as President, in answer to a direct question, I pointed out that, as good Marxist-Leninists, the Soviet leaders have openly and publicly declared that the only morality they recognize is that which will further their cause, which is world revolution.
I think I should point out I was only quoting Lenin, their guiding spirit, who said in 1920 that they repudiate all morality that proceeds from supernatural ideas  that is their name for religion  or ideas that are outside class conceptions.
Morality is entirely subordinate to the interests of class war.
And everything is moral that is necessary for the annihilation of the old, exploiting social order and for uniting the proletariat.
Well, I think the refusal of many influential people to accept this elementary fact of Soviet doctrine illustrates an historical reluctance to see totalitarian powers for what they are.
We saw this phenomenon in the 1930s.
We see it too often today.
This does not mean we should isolate ourselves and refuse to seek an understanding with them.
I intend to do everything I can to persuade them of our peaceful intent, to remind them that it was the West that refused to use its nuclear monopoly in the forties and fifties for territorial gain and which now proposes 50-percent cut in strategic ballistic missiles and the elimination of an entire class of land-based, intermediate-range nuclear missiles.
At the same time, however, they must be made to understand we will never compromise our principles and standards.
We will never give away our freedom.
We will never abandon our belief in God.
And we will never stop searching for a genuine peace.
But we can assure none of these things America stands for through the so-called nuclear freeze solutions proposed by some.
The truth is that a freeze now would be a very dangerous fraud, for that is merely the illusion of peace.
The reality is that we must find peace through strength.
I would agree to a freeze if only we could freeze the Soviets' global desires.
A freeze at current levels of weapons would remove any incentive for the Soviets to negotiate seriously in Geneva and virtually end our chances to achieve the major arms reductions which we have proposed.
Instead, they would achieve their objectives through the freeze.
A freeze would reward the Soviet Union for its enormous and unparalleled military buildup.
It would prevent the essential and long overdue modernization of United States and allied defenses and would leave our aging forces increasingly vulnerable.
And an honest freeze would require extensive prior negotiations on the systems and numbers to be limited and on the measures to ensure effective verification and compliance.
And the kind of a freeze that has been suggested would be virtually impossible to verify.
Such a major effort would divert us completely from our current negotiations on achieving substantial reductions.
A number of years ago, I heard a young father, a very prominent young man in the entertainment world, addressing a tremendous gathering in California.
It was during the time of the cold war, and communism and our own way of life were very much on people's minds.
And he was speaking to that subject.
And suddenly, though, I heard him saying, I love my little girls more than anything    And I said to myself, Oh, no, do not.
You cannot  do not say that.
But I had underestimated him.
He went on: I would rather see my little girls die now, still believing in God, than have them grow up under communism and one day die no longer believing in God.
There were thousands of young people in that audience.
They came to their feet with shouts of joy.
They had instantly recognized the profound truth in what he had said, with regard to the physical and the soul and what was truly important.
Yes, let us pray for the salvation of all of those who live in that totalitarian darkness  pray they will discover the joy of knowing God.
But until they do, let us be aware that while they preach the supremacy of the state, declare its omnipotence over individual man, and predict its eventual domination of all peoples on the Earth, they are the focus of evil in the modern world.
It was C.
S.
Lewis who, in his unforgettable Screwtape Letters, wrote: The greatest evil is not done now in those sordid 'dens of crime' that Dickens loved to paint.
It is not even done in concentration camps and labor camps.
In those we see its final result.
But it is conceived and ordered  in clear, carpeted, warmed, and well-lighted offices, by quiet men with white collars and cut fingernails and smooth-shaven cheeks who do not need to raise their voice.
Well, because these quiet men do not raise their voices, because they sometimes speak in soothing tones of brotherhood and peace, because, like other dictators before them, they are always making their final territorial demand, some would have us accept them at their word and accommodate ourselves to their aggressive impulses.
But if history teaches anything, it teaches that simple-minded appeasement or wishful thinking about our adversaries is folly.
It means the betrayal of our past, the squandering of our freedom.
So, I urge you to speak out against those who would place the United States in a position of military and moral inferiority.
You know, I have always believed that old Screwtape reserved his best efforts for those of you in the church.
So, in your discussions of the nuclear freeze proposals, I urge you to beware the temptation of pride  the temptation of blithely declaring yourselves above it all and label both sides equally at fault, to ignore the facts of history and the aggressive impulses of an evil empire, to simply call the arms race a giant misunderstanding and thereby remove yourself from the struggle between right and wrong and good and evil.
I ask you to resist the attempts of those who would have you withhold your support for our efforts, this administration's efforts, to keep America strong and free, while we negotiate real and verifiable reductions in the world's nuclear arsenals and one day, with God's help, their total elimination.
While America's military strength is important, let me add here that I have always maintained that the struggle now going on for the world will never be decided by bombs or rockets, by armies or military might.
The real crisis we face today is a spiritual one; at root, it is a test of moral will and faith.
Whittaker Chambers, the man whose own religious conversion made him a witness to one of the terrible traumas of our time, the Hiss-Chambers case, wrote that the crisis of the Western World exists to the degree in which the West is indifferent to God, the degree to which it collaborates in communism's attempt to make man stand alone without God.
And then he said, for Marxism-Leninism is actually the second oldest faith, first proclaimed in the Garden of Eden with the words of temptation, Ye shall be as gods.
The Western World can answer this challenge, he wrote, but only provided that its faith in God and the freedom He enjoins is as great as communism's faith in Man.
I believe we shall rise to the challenge.
I believe that communism is another sad, bizarre chapter in human history whose last pages even now are being written.
I believe this because the source of our strength in the quest for human freedom is not material, but spiritual.
And because it knows no limitation, it must terrify and ultimately triumph over those who would enslave their fellow man.
For in the words of Isaiah: He giveth power to the faint; and to them that have no might He increased strength.
But they that wait upon the Lord shall renew their strength; they shall mount up with wings as eagles; they shall run, and not be weary.
Yes, change your world.
One of our Founding Fathers, Thomas Paine, said, We have it within our power to begin the world over again.
We can do it, doing together what no one church could do by itself.
God bless you, and thank you very much.
My fellow Americans, thank you for sharing your time with me tonight.
The subject I want to discuss with you, peace and national security, is both timely and important.
Timely, because I have reached a decision which offers a new hope for our children in the 21st century, a decision I will tell you about in a few minutes.
And important because there is a very big decision that you must make for yourselves.
This subject involves the most basic duty that any President and any people share, the duty to protect and strengthen the peace.
At the beginning of this year, I submitted to the Congress a defense budget which reflects my best judgment of the best understanding of the experts and specialists who advise me about what we and our allies must do to protect our people in the years ahead.
That budget is much more than a long list of numbers, for behind all the numbers lies America's ability to prevent the greatest of human tragedies and preserve our free way of life in a sometimes dangerous world.
It is part of a careful, long-term plan to make America strong again after too many years of neglect and mistakes.
Our efforts to rebuild America's defenses and strengthen the peace began 2 years ago when we requested a major increase in the defense program.
Since then, the amount of those increases we first proposed has been reduced by half, through improvements in management and procurement and other savings.
The budget request that is now before the Congress has been trimmed to the limits of safety.
Further deep cuts cannot be made without seriously endangering the security of the Nation.
The choice is up to the men and women you have elected to the Congress, and that means the choice is up to you.
Tonight, I want to explain to you what this defense debate is all about and why I am convinced that the budget now before the Congress is necessary, responsible, and deserving of your support.
And I want to offer hope for the future.
But first, let me say what the defense debate is not about.
It is not about spending arithmetic.
I know that in the last few weeks you have been bombarded with numbers and percentages.
Some say we need only a 5-percent increase in defense spending.
The so-called alternate budget backed by liberals in the House of Representatives would lower the figure to 2 to 3 percent, cutting our defense spending by $163 billion over the next 5 years.
The trouble with all these numbers is that they tell us little about the kind of defense program America needs or the benefits and security and freedom that our defense effort buys for us.
What seems to have been lost in all this debate is the simple truth of how a defense budget is arrived at.
It is not done by deciding to spend a certain number of dollars.
Those loud voices that are occasionally heard charging that the Government is trying to solve a security problem by throwing money at it are nothing more than noise based on ignorance.
We start by considering what must be done to maintain peace and review all the possible threats against our security.
Then a strategy for strengthening peace and defending against those threats must be agreed upon.
And, finally, our defense establishment must be evaluated to see what is necessary to protect against any or all of the potential threats.
The cost of achieving these ends is totaled up, and the result is the budget for national defense.
There is no logical way that you can say, let us spend x billion dollars less.
You can only say, which part of our defense measures do we believe we can do without and still have security against all contingencies? Anyone in the Congress who advocates a percentage or a specific dollar cut in defense spending should be made to say what part of our defenses he would eliminate, and he should be candid enough to acknowledge that his cuts mean cutting our commitments to allies or inviting greater risk or both.
The defense policy of the United States is based on a simple premise: The United States does not start fights.
We will never be an aggressor.
We maintain our strength in order to deter and defend against aggression-to preserve freedom and peace.
Since the dawn of the atomic age, we have sought to reduce the risk of war by maintaining a strong deterrent and by seeking genuine arms control.
Deterrence means simply this: making sure any adversary who thinks about attacking the United States, or our allies, or our vital interests, concludes that the risks to him outweigh any potential gains.
Once he understands that, he will not attack.
We maintain the peace through our strength; weakness only invites aggression.
This strategy of deterrence has not changed.
It still works.
But what it takes to maintain deterrence has changed.
It took one kind of military force to deter an attack when we had far more nuclear weapons than any other power; it takes another kind now that the Soviets, for example, have enough accurate and powerful nuclear weapons to destroy virtually all of our missiles on the ground.
Now, this is not to say that the Soviet Union is planning to make war on us.
Nor do I believe a war is inevitable  quite the contrary.
But what must be recognized is that our security is based on being prepared to meet all threats.
There was a time when we depended on coastal forts and artillery batteries, because, with the weaponry of that day, any attack would have had to come by sea.
Well, this is a different world, and our defenses must be based on recognition and awareness of the weaponry possessed by other nations in the nuclear age.
We cannot afford to believe that we will never be threatened.
There have been two world wars in my lifetime.
We did not start them and, indeed, did everything we could to avoid being drawn into them.
But we were ill-prepared for both.
Had we been better prepared, peace might have been preserved.
For 20 years the Soviet Union has been accumulating enormous military might.
They did not stop when their forces exceeded all requirements of a legitimate defensive capability.
And they have not stopped now.
During the past decade and a half, the Soviets have built up a massive arsenal of new strategic nuclear weapons  weapons that can strike directly at the United States.
As an example, the United States introduced its last new intercontinental ballistic missile, the Minute Man III, in 1969, and we are now dismantling our even older Titan missiles.
But what has the Soviet Union done in these intervening years? Well, since 1969 the Soviet Union has built five new classes of ICBM's, and upgraded these eight times.
As a result, their missiles are much more powerful and accurate than they were several years ago, and they continue to develop more, while ours are increasingly obsolete.
The same thing has happened in other areas.
Over the same period, the Soviet Union built 4 new classes of submarine-launched ballistic missiles and over 60 new missile submarines.
We built 2 new types of submarine missiles and actually withdrew 10 submarines from strategic missions.
The Soviet Union built over 200 new Backfire bombers, and their brand new Blackjack bomber is now under development.
We have not built a new long-range bomber since our B-52's were deployed about a quarter of a century ago, and we have already retired several hundred of those because of old age.
Indeed, despite what many people think, our strategic forces only cost about 15 percent of the defense budget.
Another example of what is happened: In 1978 the Soviets had 600 intermediate-range nuclear missiles based on land and were beginning to add the SS-20  a new, highly accurate, mobile missile with 3 warheads.
We had none.
Since then the Soviets have strengthened their lead.
By the end of 1979, when Soviet leader Brezhnev declared a balance now exists, the Soviets had over 800 warheads.
We still had none.
A year ago this month,  Brezhnev pledged a moratorium, or freeze, on SS-20 deployment.
But by last August, their 800 warheads had become more than 1,200.
We still had none.
Some freeze.
At this time Soviet Defense Minister Ustinov announced approximate parity of forces continues to exist.
But the Soviets are still adding an average of 3 new warheads a week, and now have 1,300.
These warheads can reach their targets in a matter of a few minutes.
We still have none.
So far, it seems that the Soviet definition of parity is a box score of 1,300 to nothing, in their favor.
So, together with our NATO allies, we decided in 1979 to deploy new weapons, beginning this year, as a deterrent to their SS  20's and as an incentive to the Soviet Union to meet us in serious arms control negotiations.
We will begin that deployment late this year.
At the same time, however, we are willing to cancel our program if the Soviets will dismantle theirs.
This is what we have called a zero-zero plan.
The Soviets are now at the negotiating table  and I think it is fair to say that without our planned deployments, they would not be there.
Now, let us consider conventional forces.
Since 1974 the United States has produced 3,050 tactical combat aircraft.
By contrast, the Soviet Union has produced twice as many.
When we look at attack submarines, the United States has produced 27 while the Soviet Union has produced 61.
For armored vehicles, including tanks, we have produced 11,200.
The Soviet Union has produced 54,000  nearly 5 to 1 in their favor.
Finally, with artillery, we have produced 950 artillery and rocket launchers while the Soviets have produced more than 13,000  a staggering 14-to-1 ratio.
There was a time when we were able to offset superior Soviet numbers with higher quality, but today they are building weapons as sophisticated and modern as our own.
As the Soviets have increased their military power, they have been emboldened to extend that power.
They're spreading their military influence in ways that can directly challenge our vital interests and those of our allies.
The following aerial photographs, most of them secret until now, illustrate this point in a crucial area very close to home: Central America and the Caribbean Basin.
They're not dramatic photographs.
But I think they help give you a better understanding of what I am talking about.
This Soviet intelligence collection facility, less than a hundred miles from our coast, is the largest of its kind in the world.
The acres and acres of antennae fields and intelligence monitors are targeted on key U.
S.
military installations and sensitive activities.
The installation in Lourdes, Cuba, is manned by 1,500 Soviet technicians.
And the satellite ground station allows instant communications with Moscow.
This 28-square-mile facility has grown by more than 60 percent in size and capability during the past decade.
In western Cuba, we see this military airfield and it complement of modern, Soviet-built Mig-23 aircraft.
The Soviet Union uses this Cuban airfield for its own long-range reconnaissance missions.
And earlier this month, two modern Soviet antisubmarine warfare aircraft began operating from it.
During the past 2 years, the level of Soviet arms exports to Cuba can only be compared to the levels reached during the Cuban missile crisis 20 years ago.
This third photo, which is the only one in this series that has been previously made public, shows Soviet military hardware that has made its way to Central America.
This airfield with its MI-8 helicopters, anti-aircraft guns, and protected fighter sites is one of a number of military facilities in Nicaragua which has received Soviet equipment funneled through Cuba, and reflects the massive military buildup going on in that country.
On the small island of Grenada, at the southern end of the Caribbean chain, the Cubans, with Soviet financing and backing, are in the process of building an airfield with a 10,000-foot runway.
Grenada does not even have an air force.
Who is it intended for? The Caribbean is a very important passageway for our international commerce and military lines of communication.
More than half of all American oil imports now pass through the Caribbean.
The rapid buildup of Grenada's military potential is unrelated to any conceivable threat to this island country of under 110,000 people and totally at odds with the pattern of other eastern Caribbean States, most of which are unarmed.
The Soviet-Cuban militarization of Grenada, in short, can only be seen as power projection into the region.
And it is in this important economic and strategic area that we are trying to help the Governments of El Salvador, Costa Rica, Honduras, and others in their struggles for democracy against guerrillas supported through Cuba and Nicaragua.
These pictures only tell a small part of the story.
I wish I could show you more without compromising our most sensitive intelligence sources and methods.
But the Soviet Union is also supporting Cuban military forces in Angola and Ethiopia.
They have bases in Ethiopia and South Yemen, near the Persian Gulf oil fields.
They've taken over the port that we built at Cam Ranh Bay in Vietnam.
And now for the first time in history, the Soviet Navy is a force to be reckoned with in the South Pacific.
Some people may still ask: Would the Soviets ever use their formidable military power? Well, again, can we afford to believe they will not? There is Afghanistan.
And in Poland, the Soviets denied the will of the people and in so doing demonstrated to the world how their military power could also be used to intimidate.
The final fact is that the Soviet Union is acquiring what can only be considered an offensive military force.
They have continued to build far more intercontinental ballistic missiles than they could possibly need simply to deter an attack.
Their conventional forces are trained and equipped not so much to defend against an attack as they are to permit sudden, surprise offensives of their own.
Our NATO allies have assumed a great defense burden, including the military draft in most countries.
We're working with them and our other friends around the world to do more.
Our defensive strategy means we need military forces that can move very quickly, forces that are trained and ready to respond to any emergency.
Every item in our defense program  our ships, our tanks, our planes, our funds for training and spare parts  is intended for one all-important purpose: to keep the peace.
Unfortunately, a decade of neglecting our military forces had called into question our ability to do that.
When I took office in January 1981, I was appalled by what I found: American planes that could not fly and American ships that could not sail for lack of spare parts and trained personnel and insufficient fuel and ammunition for essential training.
The inevitable result of all this was poor morale in our Armed Forces, difficulty in recruiting the brightest young Americans to wear the uniform, and difficulty in convincing our most experienced military personnel to stay on.
There was a real question then about how well we could meet a crisis.
And it was obvious that we had to begin a major modernization program to ensure we could deter aggression and preserve the peace in the years ahead.
We had to move immediately to improve the basic readiness and staying power of our conventional forces, so they could meet  and therefore help deter  a crisis.
We had to make up for lost years of investment by moving forward with a long-term plan to prepare our forces to counter the military capabilities our adversaries were developing for the future.
I know that all of you want peace, and so do I.
I know too that many of you seriously believe that a nuclear freeze would further the cause of peace.
But a freeze now would make us less, not more, secure and would raise, not reduce, the risks of war.
It would be largely unverifiable and would seriously undercut our negotiations on arms reduction.
It would reward the Soviets for their massive military buildup while preventing us from modernizing our aging and increasingly vulnerable forces.
With their present margin of superiority, why should they agree to arms reductions knowing that we were prohibited from catching up?Believe me, it was not pleasant for someone who had come to Washington determined to reduce government spending, but we had to move forward with the task of repairing our defenses or we would lose our ability to deter conflict now and in the future.
We had to demonstrate to any adversary that aggression could not succeed, and that the only real solution was substantial, equitable, and effectively verifiable arms reduction  the kind we are working for right now in Geneva.
Thanks to your strong support, and bipartisan support from the Congress, we began to turn things around.
Already, we are seeing some very encouraging results.
Quality recruitment and retention are up dramatically-more high school graduates are choosing military careers, and more experienced career personnel are choosing to stay.
Our men and women in uniform at last are getting the tools and training they need to do their jobs.
Ask around today, especially among our young people, and I think you will find a whole new attitude toward serving their country.
This reflects more than just better pay, equipment, and leadership.
You the American people have sent a signal to these young people that it is once again an honor to wear the uniform.
That's not something you measure in a budget, but it is a very real part of our nation's strength.
It'll take us longer to build the kind of equipment we need to keep peace in the future, but we have made a good start.
We have not built a new long-range bomber for 21 years.
Now we are building the B-1.
We had not launched one new strategic submarine for 17 years.
Now we are building one Trident submarine a year.
Our land-based missiles are increasingly threatened by the many huge, new Soviet ICBM's.
We're determining how to solve that problem.
At the same time, we are working in the START and INF negotiations with the goal of achieving deep reductions in the strategic and intermediate nuclear arsenals of both sides.
We have also begun the long-needed modernization of our conventional forces.
The Army is getting its first new tank in 20 years.
The Air Force is modernizing.
We're rebuilding our Navy, which shrank from about a thousand ships in the late 1960's to 453 during the 1970's.
Our nation needs a superior navy to support our military forces and vital interests overseas.
We're now on the road to achieving a 600-ship navy and increasing the amphibious capabilities of our marines, who are now serving the cause of peace in Lebanon.
And we are building a real capability to assist our friends in the vitally important Indian Ocean and Persian Gulf region.
This adds up to a major effort, and it is not cheap.
It comes at a time when there are many other pressures on our budget and when the American people have already had to make major sacrifices during the recession.
But we must not be misled by those who would make defense once again the scapegoat of the Federal budget.
The fact is that in the past few decades we have seen a dramatic shift in how we spend the taxpayer's dollar.
Back in 1955, payments to individuals took up only about 20 percent of the Federal budget.
For nearly three decades, these payments steadily increased and, this year, will account for 49 percent of the budget.
By contrast, in 1955 defense took up more than half of the Federal budget.
By 1980 this spending had fallen to a low of 23 percent.
Even with the increase that I am requesting this year, defense will still amount to only 28 percent of the budget.
The calls for cutting back the defense budget come in nice, simple arithmetic.
They're the same kind of talk that led the democracies to neglect their defenses in the 1930's and invited the tragedy of World War II We must not let that grim chapter of history repeat itself through apathy or neglect.
This is why I am speaking to you tonight-to urge you to tell your Senators and Congressmen that you know we must continue to restore our military strength.
If we stop in midstream, we will send a signal of decline, of lessened will, to friends and adversaries alike.
Free people must voluntarily, through open debate and democratic means, meet the challenge that totalitarians pose by compulsion.
It's up to us, in our time, to choose and choose wisely between the hard but necessary task of preserving peace and freedom and the temptation to ignore our duty and blindly hope for the best while the enemies of freedom grow stronger day by day.
The solution is well within our grasp.
But to reach it, there is simply no alternative but to continue this year, in this budget, to provide the resources we need to preserve the peace and guarantee our freedom.
Now, thus far tonight I have shared with you my thoughts on the problems of national security we must face together.
My predecessors in the Oval Office have appeared before you on other occasions to describe the threat posed by Soviet power and have proposed steps to address that threat.
But since the advent of nuclear weapons, those steps have been increasingly directed toward deterrence of aggression through the promise of retaliation.
This approach to stability through offensive threat has worked.
We and our allies have succeeded in preventing nuclear war for more than three decades.
In recent months, however, my advisers, including in particular the Joint Chiefs of Staff, have underscored the necessity to break out of a future that relies solely on offensive retaliation for our security.
Over the course of these discussions, I have become more and more deeply convinced that the human spirit must be capable of rising above dealing with other nations and human beings by threatening their existence.
Feeling this way, I believe we must thoroughly examine every opportunity for reducing tensions and for introducing greater stability into the strategic calculus on both sides.
One of the most important contributions we can make is, of course, to lower the level of all arms, and particularly nuclear arms.
We're engaged right now in several negotiations with the Soviet Union to bring about a mutual reduction of weapons.
I will report to you a week from tomorrow my thoughts on that score.
But let me just say, I am totally committed to this course.
If the Soviet Union will join with us in our effort to achieve major arms reduction, we will have succeeded in stabilizing the nuclear balance.
Nevertheless, it will still be necessary to rely on the specter of retaliation, on mutual threat.
And that is a sad commentary on the human condition.
Wouldn't it be better to save lives than to avenge them? Are we not capable of demonstrating our peaceful intentions by applying all our abilities and our ingenuity to achieving a truly lasting stability? I think we are.
Indeed, we must.
After careful consultation with my advisers, including the Joint Chiefs of Staff, I believe there is a way.
Let me share with you a vision of the future which offers hope.
It is that we embark on a program to counter the awesome Soviet missile threat with measures that are defensive.
Let us turn to the very strengths in technology that spawned our great industrial base and that have given us the quality of life we enjoy today.
What if free people could live secure in the knowledge that their security did not rest upon the threat of instant U.
S.
retaliation to deter a Soviet attack, that we could intercept and destroy strategic ballistic missiles before they reached our own soil or that of our allies?I know this is a formidable, technical task, one that may not be accomplished before the end of this century.
Yet, current technology has attained a level of sophistication where it is reasonable for us to begin this effort.
It will take years, probably decades of effort on many fronts.
There will be failures and setbacks, just as there will be successes and breakthroughs.
And as we proceed, we must remain constant in preserving the nuclear deterrent and maintaining a solid capability for flexible response.
But is not it worth every investment necessary to free the world from the threat of nuclear war? We know it is.
In the meantime, we will continue to pursue real reductions in nuclear arms, negotiating from a position of strength that can be ensured only by modernizing our strategic forces.
At the same time, we must take steps to reduce the risk of a conventional military conflict escalating to nuclear war by improving our nonnuclear capabilities.
America does possess  now  the technologies to attain very significant improvements in the effectiveness of our conventional, nonnuclear forces.
Proceeding boldly with these new technologies, we can significantly reduce any incentive that the Soviet Union may have to threaten attack against the United States or its allies.
As we pursue our goal of defensive technologies, we recognize that our allies rely upon our strategic offensive power to deter attacks against them.
Their vital interests and ours are inextricably linked.
Their safety and ours are one.
And no change in technology can or will alter that reality.
We must and shall continue to honor our commitments.
I clearly recognize that defensive systems have limitations and raise certain problems and ambiguities.
If paired with offensive systems, they can be viewed as fostering an aggressive policy, and no one wants that.
But with these considerations firmly in mind, I call upon the scientific community in our country, those who gave us nuclear weapons, to turn their great talents now to the cause of mankind and world peace, to give us the means of rendering these nuclear weapons impotent and obsolete.
Tonight, consistent with our obligations of the ABM treaty and recognizing the need for closer consultation with our allies, I am taking an important first step.
I am directing a comprehensive and intensive effort to define a long-term research and development program to begin to achieve our ultimate goal of eliminating the threat posed by strategic nuclear missiles.
This could pave the way for arms control measures to eliminate the weapons themselves.
We seek neither military superiority nor political advantage.
Our only purpose  one all people share  is to search for ways to reduce the danger of nuclear war.
My fellow Americans, tonight we are launching an effort which holds the promise of changing the course of human history.
There will be risks, and results take time.
But I believe we can do it.
As we cross this threshold, I ask for your prayers and your support.
Thank you, good night, and God bless you.
My fellow Americans:I am coming before you tonight about the Korean airline massacre, the attack by the Soviet Union against 269 innocent men, women, and children aboard an unarmed Korean passenger plane.
This crime against humanity must never be forgotten, here or throughout the world.
Our prayers tonight are with the victims and their families in their time of terrible grief.
Our hearts go out to them  to brave people like Kathryn McDonald, the wife of a Congressman whose composure and eloquence on the day of her husband's death moved us all.
He will be sorely missed by all of us here in government.
The parents of one slain couple wired me: Our daughter.
and her husband.
died on Korean Airline Flight 007.
Their deaths were the result of the Soviet Union violating every concept of human rights.
The emotions of these parents  grief, shock, anger  are shared by civilized people everywhere.
From around the world press accounts reflect an explosion of condemnation by people everywhere.
Let me state as plainly as I can: There was absolutely no justification, either legal or moral, for what the Soviets did.
One newspaper in India said, If every passenger plane.
is fair game for home air forces.
it will be the end to civil aviation as we know it.
This is not the first time the Soviet Union has shot at and hit a civilian airliner when it overflew its territory.
In another tragic incident in 1978, the Soviets also shot down an unarmed civilian airliner after having positively identified it as such.
In that instance, the Soviet interceptor pilot clearly identified the civilian markings on the side of the aircraft, repeatedly questioned the order to fire on a civilian airliner, and was ordered to shoot it down anyway.
The aircraft was hit with a missile and made a crash landing.
Several innocent people lost their lives in this attack, killed by shrapnel from the blast of a Soviet missile.
Is this a practice of other countries in the world? The answer is no.
Commercial aircraft from the Soviet Union and Cuba on a number of occasions have overflown sensitive United States military facilities.
They were not shot down.
We and other civilized countries believe in the tradition of offering help to mariners and pilots who are lost or in distress on the sea or in the air.
We believe in following procedures to prevent a tragedy, not to provoke one.
But despite the savagery of their crime, the universal reaction against it, and the evidence of their complicity, the Soviets still refuse to tell the truth.
They have persistently refused to admit that their pilot fired on the Korean aircraft.
Indeed, they have not even told their own people that a plane was shot down.
They have spun a confused tale of tracking the plane by radar until it just mysteriously disappeared from their radar screens, but no one fired a shot of any kind.
But then they coupled this with charges that it was a spy plane sent by us and that their planes fired tracer bullets past the plane as a warning that it was in Soviet airspace.
Let me recap for a moment and present the incontrovertible evidence that we have.
The Korean airliner, a Boeing 747, left Anchorage, Alaska, bound for Seoul, Korea, on a course south and west which would take it across Japan.
Out over the Pacific, in international waters, it was for a brief time in the vicinity of one of our reconnaissance planes, an RC-135, on a routine mission.
At no time was the RC-135 in Soviet airspace.
The Korean airliner flew on, and the two planes were soon widely separated.
The 747 is equipped with the most modern computerized navigation facilities, but a computer must respond to input provided by human hands.
No one will ever know whether a mistake was made in giving the computer the course or whether there was a malfunction.
Whichever, the 747 was flying a course further to the west than it was supposed to fly  a course which took it into Soviet airspace.
The Soviets tracked this plane for 2 1/2 hours while it flew a straight-line course at 30 to 35,000 feet.
Only civilian airliners fly in such a manner.
At one point, the Korean pilot gave Japanese air control his position as east of Hokkaido, Japan, showing that he was unaware they were off course by as much or more than a hundred miles.
The Soviets scrambled jet interceptors from a base in Sakhalin Island.
Japanese ground sites recorded the interceptor planes' radio transmissions  their conversations with their own ground control.
We only have the voices from the pilots; the Soviet ground-to-air transmissions were not recorded.
It's plain, however, from the pilot's words that he is responding to orders and queries from his own ground control.
Here is a brief segment of the tape which we are going to play in its entirety for the United Nations Security Council tomorrow.
Those were the voices of the Soviet pilots.
In this tape, the pilot who fired the missile describes his search for what he calls the target.
He reports he has it in sight; indeed, he pulls up to within about a mile of the Korean plane, mentions its flashing strobe light and that its navigation lights are on.
He then reports he is reducing speed to get behind the airliner, gives his distance from the plane at various points in this maneuver, and finally announces what can only be called the Korean Airline Massacre.
He says he has locked on the radar, which aims his missiles, has launched those missiles, the target has been destroyed, and he is breaking off the attack.
Let me point out something here having to do with his close-up view of the airliner on what we know was a clear night with a half moon.
The 747 has a unique and distinctive silhouette, unlike any other plane in the world.
There is no way a pilot could mistake this for anything other than a civilian airliner.
And if that is not enough, let me point out our RC-135 that I mentioned earlier had been back at its base in Alaska, on the ground for an hour, when the murderous attack took place over the Sea of Japan.
And make no mistake about it, this attack was not just against ourselves or the Republic of Korea.
This was the Soviet Union against the world and the moral precepts which guide human relations among people everywhere.
It was an act of barbarism, born of a society which wantonly disregards individual rights and the value of human life and seeks constantly to expand and dominate other nations.
They deny the deed, but in their conflicting and misleading protestations, the Soviets reveal that, yes, shooting down a plane  even one with hundreds of innocent men, women, children, and babies  is a part of their normal procedure if that plane is in what they claim as their airspace.
They owe the world an apology and an offer to join the rest of the world in working out a system to protect against this ever happening again.
Among the rest of us there is one protective measure: an international radio wavelength on which pilots can communicate with planes of other nations if they are in trouble or lost.
Soviet military planes are not so equipped, because that would make it easier for pilots who might want to defect.
Our request to send vessels into Soviet waters to search for wreckage and bodies has received no satisfactory answer.
Bereaved families of the Japanese victims were harassed by Soviet patrol boats when they tried to get near where the plane is believed to have gone down in order to hold a ceremony for their dead.
But we should not be surprised by such inhuman brutality.
Memories come back of Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, the gassing of villages in Afghanistan.
If the massacre and their subsequent conduct is intended to intimidate, they have failed in their purpose.
From every corner of the globe the word is defiance in the face of this unspeakable act and defiance of the system which excuses it and tries to cover it up.
With our horror and our sorrow, there is a righteous and terrible anger.
It would be easy to think in terms of vengeance, but that is not a proper answer.
We want justice and action to see that this never happens again.
Our immediate challenge to this atrocity is to ensure that we make the skies safer and that we seek just compensation for the families of those who were killed.
Since my return to Washington, we have held long meetings, the most recent yesterday with the congressional leadership.
There was a feeling of unity in the room, and I received a number of constructive suggestions.
We will continue to work with the Congress regarding our response to this massacre.
As you know, we immediately made known to the world the shocking facts as honestly and completely as they came to us.
We have notified the Soviets that we will not renew our bilateral agreement for cooperation in the field of transportation so long as they threaten the security of civil aviation.
Since 1981 the Soviet airline Aeroflot has been denied the right to fly to the United States.
We have reaffirmed that order and are examining additional steps we can take with regard to Aeroflot facilities in this country.
We're cooperating with other countries to find better means to ensure the safety of civil aviation and to join us in not accepting Aeroflot as a normal member of the international civil air community unless and until the Soviets satisfy the cries of humanity for justice.
I am pleased to report that Canada today suspended Aeroflot's landing and refueling privileges for 60 days.
We have joined with other countries to press the International Civil Aviation Organization to investigate this crime at an urgent special session of the Council.
At the same time, we are listening most carefully to private groups, both American and international, airline pilots, passenger associations, and others, who have a special interest in civil air safety.
I am asking the Congress to pass a joint resolution of condemnation of this Soviet crime.
We have informed the Soviets that we are suspending negotiations on several bilateral arrangements we had under consideration.
Along with Korea and Japan, we called an emergency meeting of the U.
N.
Security Council which began on Friday.
On that first day, Korea, Japan, Canada, Australia, the Netherlands, Pakistan, France, China, the United Kingdom, Zaire, New Zealand, and West Germany all joined us in denouncing the Soviet action and expressing our horror.
We expect to hear from additional countries as debate resumes tomorrow.
We intend to work with the 13 countries who had citizens aboard the Korean airliner to seek reparations for the families of all those who were killed.
The United States will be making a claim against the Soviet Union within the next week to obtain compensation for the benefit of the victims' survivors.
Such compensation is an absolute moral duty which the Soviets must assume.
In the economic area in general, we are redoubling our efforts with our allies to end the flow of military and strategic items to the Soviet Union.
Secretary Shultz is going to Madrid to meet with representatives of 35 countries who, for 3 years, have been negotiating an agreement having to do with, among other things, human rights.
Foreign Minister Gromyko of the Soviet Union is scheduled to attend that meeting.
If he does come to the meeting, Secretary Shultz is going to present him with our demands for disclosure of the facts, corrective action, and concrete assurances that such a thing will not happen again and that restitution be made.
As we work with other countries to see that justice is done, the real test of our resolve is whether we have the will to remain strong, steady, and united.
I believe more than ever  as evidenced by your thousands and thousands of wires and phone calls in these last few days  that we do.
I have outlined some of the steps we are taking in response to the tragic massacre.
There is something I have always believed in, but which now seems more important than ever.
The Congress will be facing key national security issues when it returns from recess.
There has been legitimate difference of opinion on this subject, I know, but I urge the Members of that distinguished body to ponder long and hard the Soviets' aggression as they consider the security and safety of our people  indeed, all people who believe in freedom.
Senator Henry Jackson, a wise and revered statesman and one who probably understood the Soviets as well as any American in history, warned us, the greatest threat the United States now faces is posed by the Soviet Union.
But Senator Jackson said, If America maintains a strong deterrent  and only if it does  this nation will continue to be a leader in the crucial quest for enduring peace among nations.
The late Senator made those statements in July on the Senate floor, speaking in behalf of the MX missile program he considered vital to restore America's strategic parity with the Soviets.
When John F.
Kennedy was President, defense spending as a share of the Federal budget was 70 percent greater than it is today.
Since then, the Soviet Union has carried on the most massive military buildup the world has ever seen.
Until they are willing to join the rest of the world community, we must maintain the strength to deter their aggression.
But while we do so, we must not give up our effort to bring them into the world community of nations.
Peace through strength as long as necessary, but never giving up our effort to bring peace closer through mutual, verifiable reduction in the weapons of war.
I have told you of negotiations we have suspended as a result of the Korean airline massacre, but we cannot, we must not give up our effort to reduce the arsenals of destructive weapons threatening the world.
Ambassador Nitze has returned to Geneva to resume the negotiations on intermediate-range nuclear weapons in Europe.
Equally, we will continue to press for arms reductions in the START talks that resume in October.
We are more determined than ever to reduce and, if possible, eliminate the threat hanging over mankind.
We know it will be hard to make a nation that rules its own people through force to cease using force against the rest of the world.
But we must try.
This is not a role we sought.
We preach no manifest destiny.
But like Americans who began this country and brought forth this last, best hope of mankind, history has asked much of the Americans of our own time.
Much we have already given; much more we must be prepared to give.
Let us have faith, in Abraham Lincoln's words, that right makes might, and in that faith let us, to the end dare to do our duty as we understand it.
If we do, if we stand together and move forward with courage, then history will record that some good did come from this monstrous wrong that we will carry with us and remember for the rest of our lives.
Thank you.
God bless you, and good night.
My fellow Americans:Some 2 months ago we were shocked by the brutal massacre of 269 men, women, and children, more than 60 of them Americans, in the shooting down of a Korean airliner.
Now, in these past several days, violence has erupted again, in Lebanon and Grenada.
In Lebanon, we have some 1,600 marines, part of a multinational force that is trying to help the people of Lebanon restore order and stability to that troubled land.
Our marines are assigned to the south of the city of Beirut, near the only airport operating in Lebanon.
Just a mile or so to the north is the Italian contingent and not far from them, the French and a company of British soldiers.
This past Sunday, at 22 minutes after 6 Beirut time, with dawn just breaking, a truck, looking like a lot of other vehicles in the city, approached the airport on a busy, main road.
There was nothing in its appearance to suggest it was any different than the trucks or cars that were normally seen on and around the airport.
But this one was different.
At the wheel was a young man on a suicide mission.
The truck carried some 2,000 pounds of explosives, but there was no way our marine guards could know this.
Their first warning that something was wrong came when the truck crashed through a series of barriers, including a chain-link fence and barbed wire entanglements.
The guards opened fire, but it was too late.
The truck smashed through the doors of the headquarters building in which our marines were sleeping and instantly exploded.
The four-story concrete building collapsed in a pile of rubble.
More than 200 of the sleeping men were killed in that one hideous, insane attack.
Many others suffered injury and are hospitalized here or in Europe.
This was not the end of the horror.
At almost the same instant, another vehicle on a suicide and murder mission crashed into the headquarters of the French peacekeeping force, an eight-story building, destroying it and killing more than 50 French soldiers.
Prior to this day of horror, there had been several tragedies for our men in the multinational force.
Attacks by snipers and mortar fire had taken their toll.
I called bereaved parents and/or widows of the victims to express on behalf of all of us our sorrow and sympathy.
Sometimes there were questions.
And now many of you are asking: Why should our young men be dying in Lebanon? Why is Lebanon important to us?Well, it is true, Lebanon is a small country, more than five-and-a-half thousand miles from our shores on the edge of what we call the Middle East.
But every President who has occupied this office in recent years has recognized that peace in the Middle East is of vital concern to our nation and, indeed, to our allies in Western Europe and Japan.
We've been concerned because the Middle East is a powderkeg; four times in the last 30 years, the Arabs and Israelis have gone to war.
And each time, the world has teetered near the edge of catastrophe.
The area is key to the economic and political life of the West.
Its strategic importance, its energy resources, the Suez Canal, and the well-being of the nearly 200 million people living there  all are vital to us and to world peace.
If that key should fall into the hands of a power or powers hostile to the free world, there would be a direct threat to the United States and to our allies.
We have another reason to be involved.
Since 1948 our Nation has recognized and accepted a moral obligation to assure the continued existence of Israel as a nation.
Israel shares our democratic values and is a formidable force an invader of the Middle East would have to reckon with.
For several years, Lebanon has been torn by internal strife.
Once a prosperous, peaceful nation, its government had become ineffective in controlling the militias that warred on each other.
Sixteen months ago, we were watching on our TV screens the shelling and bombing of Beirut which was being used as a fortress by PLO bands.
Hundreds and hundreds of civilians were being killed and wounded in the daily battles.
Syria, which makes no secret of its claim that Lebanon should be a part of a Greater Syria, was occupying a large part of Lebanon.
Today, Syria has become a home for 7,000 Soviet advisers and technicians who man a massive amount of Soviet weaponry, including SS-21 ground-to-ground missiles capable of reaching vital areas of Israel.
A little over a year ago, hoping to build on the Camp David accords, which had led to peace between Israel and Egypt, I proposed a peace plan for the Middle East to end the wars between the Arab States and Israel.
It was based on U.
N.
resolutions 242 and 338 and called for a fair and just solution to the Palestinian problem, as well as a fair and just settlement of issues between the Arab States and Israel.
Before the necessary negotiations could begin, it was essential to get all foreign forces out of Lebanon and to end the fighting there.
So, why are we there? Well, the answer is straightforward: to help bring peace to Lebanon and stability to the vital Middle East.
To that end, the multinational force was created to help stabilize the situation in Lebanon until a government could be established and a Lebanese army mobilized to restore Lebanese sovereignty over its own soil as the foreign forces withdrew.
Israel agreed to withdraw as did Syria, but Syria then reneged on its promise.
Over 10,000 Palestinians who had been bringing ruin down on Beirut, however, did leave the country.
Lebanon has formed a government under the leadership of President Gemayal, and that government, with our assistance and training, has set up its own army.
In only a year's time, that army has been rebuilt.
It's a good army, composed of Lebanese of all factions.
A few weeks ago, the Israeli army pulled back to the Awali River in southern Lebanon.
Despite fierce resistance by Syrian-backed forces, the Lebanese army was able to hold the line and maintain the defensive perimeter around Beirut.
In the year that our marines have been there, Lebanon has made important steps toward stability and order.
The physical presence of the marines lends support to both the Lebanese Government and its army.
It allows the hard work of diplomacy to go forward.
Indeed, without the peacekeepers from the U.
S.
, France, Italy, and Britain, the efforts to find a peaceful solution in Lebanon would collapse.
As to that narrower question  what exactly is the operational mission of the marines-the answer is, to secure a piece of Beirut, to keep order in their sector, and to prevent the area from becoming a battlefield.
Our marines are not just sitting in an airport.
Part of their task is to guard that airport.
Because of their presence, the airport has remained operational.
In addition, they patrol the surrounding area.
This is their part  a limited, but essential part  in the larger effort that I have described.
If our marines must be there, I am asked, why cannot we make them safer? Who committed this latest atrocity against them and why?Well, we will do everything we can to ensure that our men are as safe as possible.
We ordered the battleship New Jersey to join our naval forces offshore.
Without even firing them, the threat of its 16-inch guns silenced those who once fired down on our marines from the hills, and they are a good part of the reason we suddenly had a ceasefire.
We're doing our best to make our forces less vulnerable to those who want to snipe at them or send in future suicide missions.
Secretary Shultz called me today from Europe, where he was meeting with the Foreign Ministers of our allies in the multinational force.
They remain committed to our task.
And plans were made to share information as to how we can improve security for all our men.
We have strong circumstantial evidence that the attack on the marines was directed by terrorists who used the same method to destroy our Embassy in Beirut.
Those who directed this atrocity must be dealt justice, and they will be.
The obvious purpose behind the sniping and, now, this attack was to weaken American will and force the withdrawal of U.
S.
and French forces from Lebanon.
The clear intent of the terrorists was to eliminate our support of the Lebanese Government and to destroy the ability of the Lebanese people to determine their own destiny.
To answer those who ask if we are serving any purpose in being there, let me answer a question with a question.
Would the terrorists have launched their suicide attacks against the multinational force if it were not doing its job? The multinational force was attacked precisely because it is doing the job it was sent to do in Beirut.
It is accomplishing its mission.
Now then, where do we go from here? What can we do now to help Lebanon gain greater stability so that our marines can come home? Well, I believe we can take three steps now that will make a difference.
First, we will accelerate the search for peace and stability in that region.
Little attention has been paid to the fact that we have had special envoys there working, literally, around the clock to bring the warring factions together.
This coming Monday in Geneva, President Gemayel of Lebanon will sit down with other factions from his country to see if national reconciliation can be achieved.
He has our firm support.
I will soon be announcing a replacement for Bud McFarlane, who was preceded by Phil Habib.
Both worked tirelessly and must be credited for much if not most of the progress we have made.
Second, we will work even more closely with our allies in providing support for the Government of Lebanon and for the rebuilding of a national consensus.
Third, we will ensure that the multinational peace-keeping forces, our marines, are given the greatest possible protection.
Our Commandant of the Marine Corps, General Kelley, returned from Lebanon today and will be advising us on steps we can take to improve security.
Vice President Bush returned just last night from Beirut and gave me a full report of his brief visit.
Beyond our progress in Lebanon, let us remember that our main goal and purpose is to achieve a broader peace in all of the Middle East.
The factions and bitterness that we see in Lebanon are just a microcosm of the difficulties that are spread across much of that region.
A peace initiative for the entire Middle East, consistent with the Camp David accords and U.
N.
resolutions 242 and 338, still offers the best hope for bringing peace to the region.
Let me ask those who say we should get out of Lebanon: If we were to leave Lebanon now, what message would that send to those who foment instability and terrorism? If America were to walk away from Lebanon, what chance would there be for a negotiated settlement, producing a unified democratic Lebanon?If we turned our backs on Lebanon now, what would be the future of Israel? At stake is the fate of only the second Arab country to negotiate a major agreement with Israel.
That's another accomplishment of this past year, the May 17th accord signed by Lebanon and Israel.
If terrorism and intimidation succeed, it will be a devastating blow to the peace process and to Israel's search for genuine security.
It will not just be Lebanon sentenced to a future of chaos.
Can the United States, or the free world, for that matter, stand by and see the Middle East incorporated into the Soviet bloc? What of Western Europe and Japan's dependence on Middle East oil for the energy to fuel their industries? The Middle East is, as I have said, vital to our national security and economic well-being.
Brave young men have been taken from us.
Many others have been grievously wounded.
Are we to tell them their sacrifice was wasted? They gave their lives in defense of our national security every bit as much as any man who ever died fighting in a war.
We must not strip every ounce of meaning and purpose from their courageous sacrifice.
We're a nation with global responsibilities.
We're not somewhere else in the world protecting someone else's interests; we are there protecting our own.
I received a message from the father of a marine in Lebanon.
He told me, In a world where we speak of human rights, there is a sad lack of acceptance of responsibility.
My son has chosen the acceptance of responsibility for the privilege of living in this country.
Certainly in this country one does not inherently have rights unless the responsibility for these rights is accepted.
Kenneth Morrison said that while he was waiting to learn if his son was one of the dead.
I was thrilled for him to learn today that his son Ross is alive and well and carrying on his duties in Lebanon.
Let us meet our responsibilities.
For longer than any of us can remember, the people of the Middle East have lived from war to war with no prospect for any other future.
That dreadful cycle must be broken.
Why are we there? Well, a Lebanese mother told one of our Ambassadors that her little girl had only attended school 2 of the last 8 years.
Now, because of our presence there, she said her daughter could live a normal life.
With patience and firmness, we can help bring peace to that strife-torn region  and make our own lives more secure.
Our role is to help the Lebanese put their country together, not to do it for them.
Now, I know another part of the world is very much on our minds, a place much closer to our shores: Grenada.
The island is only twice the size of the District of Columbia, with a total population of about 110,000 people.
Grenada and a half dozen other Caribbean islands here were, until recently, British colonies.
They're now independent states and members of the British Commonwealth.
While they respect each other's independence, they also feel a kinship with each other and think of themselves as one people.
In 1979 trouble came to Grenada.
Maurice Bishop, a protege of Fidel Castro, staged a military coup and overthrew the government which had been elected under the constitution left to the people by the British.
He sought the help of Cuba in building an airport, which he claimed was for tourist trade, but which looked suspiciously suitable for military aircraft, including Soviet-built long-range bombers.
The six sovereign countries and one remaining colony are joined together in what they call the Organization of Eastern Caribbean States.
The six became increasingly alarmed as Bishop built an army greater than all of theirs combined.
Obviously, it was not purely for defense.
In this last year or so, Prime Minister Bishop gave indications that he might like better relations with the United States.
He even made a trip to our country and met with senior officials of the White House and the State Department.
Whether he was serious or not, we will never know.
On October 12th, a small group in his militia seized him and put him under arrest.
They were, if anything, more radical and more devoted to Castro's Cuba than he had been.
Several days later, a crowd of citizens appeared before Bishop's home, freed him, and escorted him toward the headquarters of the military council.
They were fired upon.
A number, including some children, were killed, and Bishop was seized.
He and several members of his cabinet were subsequently executed, and a 24-hour shoot-to-kill curfew was put in effect.
Grenada was without a government, its only authority exercised by a self-proclaimed band of military men.
There were then about 1,000 of our citizens on Grenada, 800 of them students in  George's University Medical School.
Concerned that they had be harmed or held as hostages, I ordered a flotilla of ships, then on its way to Lebanon with marines, part of our regular rotation program, to circle south on a course that would put them somewhere in the vicinity of Grenada in case there should be a need to evacuate our people.
Last weekend, I was awakened in the early morning hours and told that six members of the Organization of Eastern Caribbean States, joined by Jamaica and Barbados, had sent an urgent request that we join them in a military operation to restore order and democracy to Grenada.
They were proposing this action under the terms of a treaty, a mutual assistance pact that existed among them.
These small, peaceful nations needed our help.
Three of them do not have armies at all, and the others have very limited forces.
The legitimacy of their request, plus my own concern for our citizens, dictated my decision.
I believe our government has a responsibility to go to the aid of its citizens, if their right to life and liberty is threatened.
The nightmare of our hostages in Iran must never be repeated.
We knew we had little time and that complete secrecy was vital to ensure both the safety of the young men who would undertake this mission and the Americans they were about to rescue.
The Joint Chiefs worked around the clock to come up with a plan.
They had little intelligence information about conditions on the island.
We had to assume that several hundred Cubans working on the airport could be military reserves.
Well, as it turned out, the number was much larger, and they were a military force.
Six hundred of them have been taken prisoner, and we have discovered a complete base with weapons and communications equipment, which makes it clear a Cuban occupation of the island had been planned.
Two hours ago we released the first photos from Grenada.
They included pictures of a warehouse of military equipment-one of three we have uncovered so far.
This warehouse contained weapons and ammunition stacked almost to the ceiling, enough to supply thousands of terrorists.
Grenada, we were told, was a friendly island paradise for tourism.
Well, it was not.
It was a Soviet-Cuban colony, being readied as a major military bastion to export terror and undermine democracy.
We got there just in time.
I cannot say enough in praise of our military-Army rangers and paratroopers, Navy, Marine, and Air Force personnel-those who planned a brilliant campaign and those who carried it out.
Almost instantly, our military seized the two airports, secured the campus where most of our students were, and are now in the mopping-up phase.
It should be noted that in all the planning, a top priority was to minimize risk, to avoid casualties to our own men and also the Grenadian forces as much as humanly possible.
But there were casualties, and we all owe a debt to those who lost their lives or were wounded.
They were few in number, but even one is a tragic price to pay.
It's our intention to get our men out as soon as possible.
Prime Minister Eugenia Charles of Dominica  I called that wrong; she pronounces it Dominica  she is Chairman of OECS She is calling for help from Commonwealth nations in giving the people their right to establish a constitutional government on Grenada.
We anticipate that the Governor General, a Grenadian, will participate in setting up a provisional government in the interim.
The events in Lebanon and Grenada, though oceans apart, are closely related.
Not only has Moscow assisted and encouraged the violence in both countries, but it provides direct support through a network of surrogates and terrorists.
It is no coincidence that when the thugs tried to wrest control over Grenada, there were 30 Soviet advisers and hundreds of Cuban military and paramilitary forces on the island.
At the moment of our landing, we communicated with the Governments of Cuba and the Soviet Union and told them we would offer shelter and security to their people on Grenada.
Regrettably, Castro ordered his men to fight to the death, and some did.
The others will be sent to their homelands.
You know, there was a time when our national security was based on a standing army here within our own borders and shore batteries of artillery along our coasts, and, of course, a navy to keep the sealanes open for the shipping of things necessary to our well-being.
The-world has changed.
Today, our national security can be threatened in faraway places.
It's up to all of us to be aware of the strategic importance of such places and to be able to identify them.
Sam Rayburn once said that freedom is not something a nation can work for once and win forever.
He said it is like an insurance policy; its premiums must be kept up to date.
In order to keep it, we have to keep working for it and sacrificing for it just as long as we live.
If we do not, our children may not know the pleasure of working to keep it, for it may not be theirs to keep.
In these last few days, I have been more sure than I have ever been that we Americans of today will keep freedom and maintain peace.
I have been made to feel that by the magnificent spirit of our young men and women in uniform and by something here in our Nation's Capital.
In this city, where political strife is so much a part of our lives, I have seen Democratic leaders in the Congress join their Republican colleagues, send a message to the world that we are all Americans before we are anything else, and when our country is threatened, we stand shoulder to shoulder in support of our men and women in the Armed Forces.
May I share something with you I think you had like to know? It's something that happened to the Commandant of our Marine Corps, General Paul Kelley, while he was visiting our critically injured marines in an Air Force hospital.
It says more than any of us could ever hope to say about the gallantry and heroism of these young men, young men who serve so willingly so that others might have a chance at peace and freedom in their own lives and in the life of their country.
I will let General Kelley's words describe the incident.
He spoke of a young marine with more tubes going in and out of his body than I have ever seen in one body.
He could not see very well.
He reached up and grabbed my four stars, just to make sure I was who I said I was.
He held my hand with a firm grip.
He was making signals, and we realized he wanted to tell me something.
We put a pad of paper in his hand  and he wrote 'Semper Fi.
'Well, if you have been a marine or if, like myself, you are an admirer of the marines, you know those words are a battle-cry, a greeting, and a legend in the Marine Corps.
They're marine shorthand for the motto of the Corps  Semper Fidelis  always faithful.
General Kelley has a reputation for being a very sophisticated general and a very tough marine.
But he cried when he saw those words, and who can blame him?That marine and all those others like him, living and dead, have been faithful to their ideals.
They've given willingly of themselves so that a nearly defenseless people in a region of great strategic importance to the free world will have a chance someday to live lives free of murder and mayhem and terrorism.
I think that young marine and all of his comrades have given every one of us something to live up to.
They were not afraid to stand up for their country or, no matter how difficult and slow the journey might be, to give to others that last, best hope of a better future.
We cannot and will not dishonor them now and the sacrifices they have made by failing to remain as faithful to the cause of freedom and the pursuit of peace as they have been.
I will not ask you to pray for the dead, because they are safe in God's loving arms and beyond need of our prayers.
I would like to ask you all  wherever you may be in this blessed land  to pray for these wounded young men and to pray for the bereaved families of those who gave their lives for our freedom.
God bless you, and God bless America.
My fellow Americans:Some two months ago we were shocked by the brutal massacre of 269 men, women, and children, more than 60 of them Americans, in the shooting down of a Korean airliner.
Now, in these past several days, violence has erupted again, in Lebanon and Grenada.
In Lebanon, we have some 1,600 marines, part of a multinational force that is trying to help the people of Lebanon restore order and stability to that troubled land.
Our marines are assigned to the south of the city of Beirut, near the only airport operating in Lebanon.
Just a mile or so to the north is the Italian contingent and not far from them, the French and a company of British soldiers.
This past Sunday, at 22 minutes after 6 Beirut time, with dawn just breaking, a truck, looking like a lot of other vehicles in the city, approached the airport on a busy, main road.
There was nothing in its appearance to suggest it was any different than the trucks or cars that were normally seen on and around the airport.
But this one was different.
At the wheel was a young man on a suicide mission.
The truck carried some 2,000 pounds of explosives, but there was no way our marine guards could know this.
Their first warning that something was wrong came when the truck crashed through a series of barriers, including a chain-link fence and barbed wire entanglements.
The guards opened fire, but it was too late.
The truck smashed through the doors of the headquarters building in which our marines were sleeping and instantly exploded.
The four-story concrete building collapsed in a pile of rubble.
More than 200 of the sleeping men were killed in that one hideous, insane attack.
Many others suffered injury and are hospitalized here or in Europe.
This was not the end of the horror.
At almost the same instant, another vehicle on a suicide and murder mission crashed into the headquarters of the French peacekeeping force, an eight-story building, destroying it and killing more than 50 French soldiers.
Prior to this day of horror, there had been several tragedies for our men in the multinational force.
Attacks by snipers and mortar fire had taken their toll.
I called bereaved parents and/or widows of the victims to express on behalf of all of us our sorrow and sympathy.
Sometimes there were questions.
And now many of you are asking: Why should our young men be dying in Lebanon? Why is Lebanon important to us?Well, it is true, Lebanon is a small country, more than five-and-a-half thousand miles from our shores on the edge of what we call the Middle East.
But every President who has occupied this office in recent years has recognized that peace in the Middle East is of vital concern to our nation and, indeed, to our allies in Western Europe and Japan.
We've been concerned because the Middle East is a powderkeg; four times in the last 30 years, the Arabs and Israelis have gone to war.
And each time, the world has teetered near the edge of catastrophe.
The area is key to the economic and political life of the West.
Its strategic importance, its energy resources, the Suez Canal, and the well-being of the nearly 200 million people living there  all are vital to us and to world peace.
If that key should fall into the hands of a power or powers hostile to the free world, there would be a direct threat to the United States and to our allies.
We have another reason to be involved.
Since 1948 our Nation has recognized and accepted a moral obligation to assure the continued existence of Israel as a nation.
Israel shares our democratic values and is a formidable force an invader of the Middle East would have to reckon with.
For several years, Lebanon has been torn by internal strife.
Once a prosperous, peaceful nation, its government had become ineffective in controlling the militias that warred on each other.
Sixteen months ago, we were watching on our TV screens the shelling and bombing of Beirut which was being used as a fortress by PLO bands.
Hundreds and hundreds of civilians were being killed and wounded in the daily battles.
Syria, which makes no secret of its claim that Lebanon should be a part of a Greater Syria, was occupying a large part of Lebanon.
Today, Syria has become a home for 7,000 Soviet advisers and technicians who man a massive amount of Soviet weaponry, including SS-21 ground-to-ground missiles capable of reaching vital areas of Israel.
A little over a year ago, hoping to build on the Camp David accords, which had led to peace between Israel and Egypt, I proposed a peace plan for the Middle East to end the wars between the Arab States and Israel.
It was based on U.
N.
resolutions 242 and 338 and called for a fair and just solution to the Palestinian problem, as well as a fair and just settlement of issues between the Arab States and Israel.
Before the necessary negotiations could begin, it was essential to get all foreign forces out of Lebanon and to end the fighting there.
So, why are we there? Well, the answer is straightforward: to help bring peace to Lebanon and stability to the vital Middle East.
To that end, the multinational force was created to help stabilize the situation in Lebanon until a government could be established and a Lebanese army mobilized to restore Lebanese sovereignty over its own soil as the foreign forces withdrew.
Israel agreed to withdraw as did Syria, but Syria then reneged on its promise.
Over 10,000 Palestinians who had been bringing ruin down on Beirut, however, did leave the country.
Lebanon has formed a government under the leadership of President Gemayal, and that government, with our assistance and training, has set up its own army.
In only a year's time, that army has been rebuilt.
It's a good army, composed of Lebanese of all factions.
A few weeks ago, the Israeli army pulled back to the Awali River in southern Lebanon.
Despite fierce resistance by Syrian-backed forces, the Lebanese army was able to hold the line and maintain the defensive perimeter around Beirut.
In the year that our marines have been there, Lebanon has made important steps toward stability and order.
The physical presence of the marines lends support to both the Lebanese Government and its army.
It allows the hard work of diplomacy to go forward.
Indeed, without the peacekeepers from the U.
S.
, France, Italy, and Britain, the efforts to find a peaceful solution in Lebanon would collapse.
As to that narrower question  what exactly is the operational mission of the marines  the answer is, to secure a piece of Beirut, to keep order in their sector, and to prevent the area from becoming a battlefield.
Our marines are not just sitting in an airport.
Part of their task is to guard that airport.
Because of their presence, the airport has remained operational.
In addition, they patrol the surrounding area.
This is their part  a limited, but essential part  in the larger effort that I have described.
If our marines must be there, I am asked, why cannot we make them safer? Who committed this latest atrocity against them and why?Well, we will do everything we can to ensure that our men are as safe as possible.
We ordered the battleship New Jersey to join our naval forces offshore.
Without even firing them, the threat of its 16-inch guns silenced those who once fired down on our marines from the hills, and they are a good part of the reason we suddenly had a ceasefire.
We're doing our best to make our forces less vulnerable to those who want to snipe at them or send in future suicide missions.
Secretary Shultz called me today from Europe, where he was meeting with the Foreign Ministers of our allies in the multinational force.
They remain committed to our task.
And plans were made to share information as to how we can improve security for all our men.
We have strong circumstantial evidence that the attack on the marines was directed by terrorists who used the same method to destroy our Embassy in Beirut.
Those who directed this atrocity must be dealt justice, and they will be.
The obvious purpose behind the sniping and, now, this attack was to weaken American will and force the withdrawal of U.
S.
and French forces from Lebanon.
The clear intent of the terrorists was to eliminate our support of the Lebanese Government and to destroy the ability of the Lebanese people to determine their own destiny.
To answer those who ask if we are serving any purpose in being there, let me answer a question with a question.
Would the terrorists have launched their suicide attacks against the multinational force if it were not doing its job? The multinational force was attacked precisely because it is doing the job it was sent to do in Beirut.
It is accomplishing its mission.
Now then, where do we go from here? What can we do now to help Lebanon gain greater stability so that our marines can come home? Well, I believe we can take three steps now that will make a difference.
First, we will accelerate the search for peace and stability in that region.
Little attention has been paid to the fact that we have had special envoys there working, literally, around the clock to bring the warring factions together.
This coming Monday in Geneva, President Gemayel of Lebanon will sit down with other factions from his country to see if national reconciliation can be achieved.
He has our firm support.
I will soon be announcing a replacement for Bud McFarlane, who was preceded by Phil Habib.
Both worked tirelessly and must be credited for much if not most of the progress we have made.
Second, we will work even more closely with our allies in providing support for the Government of Lebanon and for the rebuilding of a national consensus.
Third, we will ensure that the multinational peace-keeping forces, our marines, are given the greatest possible protection.
Our Commandant of the Marine Corps, General Kelley, returned from Lebanon today and will be advising us on steps we can take to improve security.
Vice President Bush returned just last night from Beirut and gave me a full report of his brief visit.
Beyond our progress in Lebanon, let us remember that our main goal and purpose is to achieve a broader peace in all of the Middle East.
The factions and bitterness that we see in Lebanon are just a microcosm of the difficulties that are spread across much of that region.
A peace initiative for the entire Middle East, consistent with the Camp David accords and U.
N.
resolutions 242 and 338, still offers the best hope for bringing peace to the region.
Let me ask those who say we should get out of Lebanon: If we were to leave Lebanon now, what message would that send to those who foment instability and terrorism? If America were to walk away from Lebanon, what chance would there be for a negotiated settlement, producing a unified democratic Lebanon?If we turned our backs on Lebanon now, what would be the future of Israel? At stake is the fate of only the second Arab country to negotiate a major agreement with Israel.
That's another accomplishment of this past year, the May 17th accord signed by Lebanon and Israel.
If terrorism and intimidation succeed, it will be a devastating blow to the peace process and to Israel's search for genuine security.
It will not just be Lebanon sentenced to a future of chaos.
Can the United States, or the free world, for that matter, stand by and see the Middle East incorporated into the Soviet bloc? What of Western Europe and Japan's dependence on Middle East oil for the energy to fuel their industries? The Middle East is, as I have said, vital to our national security and economic well-being.
Brave young men have been taken from us.
Many others have been grievously wounded.
Are we to tell them their sacrifice was wasted? They gave their lives in defense of our national security every bit as much as any man who ever died fighting in a war.
We must not strip every ounce of meaning and purpose from their courageous sacrifice.
We're a nation with global responsibilities.
We're not somewhere else in the world protecting someone else's interests; we are there protecting our own.
I received a message from the father of a marine in Lebanon.
He told me, In a world where we speak of human rights, there is a sad lack of acceptance of responsibility.
My son has chosen the acceptance of responsibility for the privilege of living in this country.
Certainly in this country one does not inherently have rights unless the responsibility for these rights is accepted.
Kenneth Morrison said that while he was waiting to learn if his son was one of the dead.
I was thrilled for him to learn today that his son Ross is alive and well and carrying on his duties in Lebanon.
Let us meet our responsibilities.
For longer than any of us can remember, the people of the Middle East have lived from war to war with no prospect for any other future.
That dreadful cycle must be broken.
Why are we there? Well, a Lebanese mother told one of our Ambassadors that her little girl had only attended school 2 of the last 8 years.
Now, because of our presence there, she said her daughter could live a normal life.
With patience and firmness, we can help bring peace to that strife-torn region  and make our own lives more secure.
Our role is to help the Lebanese put their country together, not to do it for them.
Now, I know another part of the world is very much on our minds, a place much closer to our shores: Grenada.
The island is only twice the size of the District of Columbia, with a total population of about 110,000 people.
Grenada and a half dozen other Caribbean islands here were, until recently, British colonies.
They're now independent states and members of the British Commonwealth.
While they respect each other's independence, they also feel a kinship with each other and think of themselves as one people.
In 1979 trouble came to Grenada.
Maurice Bishop, a protege of Fidel Castro, staged a military coup and overthrew the government which had been elected under the constitution left to the people by the British.
He sought the help of Cuba in building an airport, which he claimed was for tourist trade, but which looked suspiciously suitable for military aircraft, including Soviet-built long-range bombers.
The six sovereign countries and one remaining colony are joined together in what they call the Organization of Eastern Caribbean States.
The six became increasingly alarmed as Bishop built an army greater than all of theirs combined.
Obviously, it was not purely for defense.
In this last year or so, Prime Minister Bishop gave indications that he might like better relations with the United States.
He even made a trip to our country and met with senior officials of the White House and the State Department.
Whether he was serious or not, we will never know.
On October 12th, a small group in his militia seized him and put him under arrest.
They were, if anything, more radical and more devoted to Castro's Cuba than he had been.
Several days later, a crowd of citizens appeared before Bishop's home, freed him, and escorted him toward the headquarters of the military council.
They were fired upon.
A number, including some children, were killed, and Bishop was seized.
He and several members of his cabinet were subsequently executed, and a 24-hour shoot-to-kill curfew was put in effect.
Grenada was without a government, its only authority exercised by a self-proclaimed band of military men.
There were then about 1,000 of our citizens on Grenada, 800 of them students in  George's University Medical School.
Concerned that they had be harmed or held as hostages, I ordered a flotilla of ships, then on its way to Lebanon with marines, part of our regular rotation program, to circle south on a course that would put them somewhere in the vicinity of Grenada in case there should be a need to evacuate our people.
Last weekend, I was awakened in the early morning hours and told that six members of the Organization of Eastern Caribbean States, joined by Jamaica and Barbados, had sent an urgent request that we join them in a military operation to restore order and democracy to Grenada.
They were proposing this action under the terms of a treaty, a mutual assistance pact that existed among them.
These small, peaceful nations needed our help.
Three of them do not have armies at all, and the others have very limited forces.
The legitimacy of their request, plus my own concern for our citizens, dictated my decision.
I believe our government has a responsibility to go to the aid of its citizens, if their right to life and liberty is threatened.
The nightmare of our hostages in Iran must never be repeated.
We knew we had little time and that complete secrecy was vital to ensure both the safety of the young men who would undertake this mission and the Americans they were about to rescue.
The Joint Chiefs worked around the clock to come up with a plan.
They had little intelligence information about conditions on the island.
We had to assume that several hundred Cubans working on the airport could be military reserves.
Well, as it turned out, the number was much larger, and they were a military force.
Six hundred of them have been taken prisoner, and we have discovered a complete base with weapons and communications equipment, which makes it clear a Cuban occupation of the island had been planned.
Two hours ago we released the first photos from Grenada.
They included pictures of a warehouse of military equipment-one of three we have uncovered so far.
This warehouse contained weapons and ammunition stacked almost to the ceiling, enough to supply thousands of terrorists.
Grenada, we were told, was a friendly island paradise for tourism.
Well, it was not.
It was a Soviet-Cuban colony, being readied as a major military bastion to export terror and undermine democracy.
We got there just in time.
I cannot say enough in praise of our military  Army rangers and paratroopers, Navy, Marine, and Air Force personnel  those who planned a brilliant campaign and those who carried it out.
Almost instantly, our military seized the two airports, secured the campus where most of our students were, and are now in the mopping-up phase.
It should be noted that in all the planning, a top priority was to minimize risk, to avoid casualties to our own men and also the Grenadian forces as much as humanly possible.
But there were casualties, and we all owe a debt to those who lost their lives or were wounded.
They were few in number, but even one is a tragic price to pay.
It's our intention to get our men out as soon as possible.
Prime Minister Eugenia Charles of Dominica  I called that wrong; she pronounces it Dominica  she is Chairman of OECS She is calling for help from Commonwealth nations in giving the people their right to establish a constitutional government on Grenada.
We anticipate that the Governor General, a Grenadian, will participate in setting up a provisional government in the interim.
The events in Lebanon and Grenada, though oceans apart, are closely related.
Not only has Moscow assisted and encouraged the violence in both countries, but it provides direct support through a network of surrogates and terrorists.
It is no coincidence that when the thugs tried to wrest control over Grenada, there were 30 Soviet advisers and hundreds of Cuban military and paramilitary forces on the island.
At the moment of our landing, we communicated with the Governments of Cuba and the Soviet Union and told them we would offer shelter and security to their people on Grenada.
Regrettably, Castro ordered his men to fight to the death, and some did.
The others will be sent to their homelands.
You know, there was a time when our national security was based on a standing army here within our own borders and shore batteries of artillery along our coasts, and, of course, a navy to keep the sealanes open for the shipping of things necessary to our well-being.
The-world has changed.
Today, our national security can be threatened in faraway places.
It's up to all of us to be aware of the strategic importance of such places and to be able to identify them.
Sam Rayburn once said that freedom is not something a nation can work for once and win forever.
He said it is like an insurance policy; its premiums must be kept up to date.
In order to keep it, we have to keep working for it and sacrificing for it just as long as we live.
If we do not, our children may not know the pleasure of working to keep it, for it may not be theirs to keep.
In these last few days, I have been more sure than I have ever been that we Americans of today will keep freedom and maintain peace.
I have been made to feel that by the magnificent spirit of our young men and women in uniform and by something here in our Nation's Capital.
In this city, where political strife is so much a part of our lives, I have seen Democratic leaders in the Congress join their Republican colleagues, send a message to the world that we are all Americans before we are anything else, and when our country is threatened, we stand shoulder to shoulder in support of our men and women in the Armed Forces.
May I share something with you I think you had like to know? It's something that happened to the Commandant of our Marine Corps, General Paul Kelley, while he was visiting our critically injured marines in an Air Force hospital.
It says more than any of us could ever hope to say about the gallantry and heroism of these young men, young men who serve so willingly so that others might have a chance at peace and freedom in their own lives and in the life of their country.
I will let General Kelley's words describe the incident.
He spoke of a young marine with more tubes going in and out of his body than I have ever seen in one body.
He could not see very well.
He reached up and grabbed my four stars, just to make sure I was who I said I was.
He held my hand with a firm grip.
He was making signals, and we realized he wanted to tell me something.
We put a pad of paper in his hand  and he wrote 'Semper Fi.
'Well, if you have been a marine or if, like myself, you are an admirer of the marines, you know those words are a battle-cry, a greeting, and a legend in the Marine Corps.
They're marine shorthand for the motto of the Corps  Semper Fidelis  always faithful.
General Kelley has a reputation for being a very sophisticated general and a very tough marine.
But he cried when he saw those words, and who can blame him?That marine and all those others like him, living and dead, have been faithful to their ideals.
They've given willingly of themselves so that a nearly defenseless people in a region of great strategic importance to the free world will have a chance someday to live lives free of murder and mayhem and terrorism.
I think that young marine and all of his comrades have given every one of us something to live up to.
They were not afraid to stand up for their country or, no matter how difficult and slow the journey might be, to give to others that last, best hope of a better future.
We cannot and will not dishonor them now and the sacrifices they have made by failing to remain as faithful to the cause of freedom and the pursuit of peace as they have been.
I will not ask you to pray for the dead, because they are safe in God's loving arms and beyond need of our prayers.
I would like to ask you all  wherever you may be in this blessed land  to pray for these wounded young men and to pray for the bereaved families of those who gave their lives for our freedom.
God bless you, and God bless America.
Speaker,  President, distinguished Members of the Congress, honored guests, and my fellow Americans:A number of times in past years, Members of Congress and a President have come together in meetings like this to resolve a crisis.
I have asked for this meeting in the hope that we can prevent one.
It would be hard to find many Americans who are not aware of our stake in the Middle East, the Persian Gulf, or the NATO line dividing the free world from the Communist bloc.
And the same could be said for Asia.
But in spite of, or maybe because of, a flurry of stories about places like Nicaragua and El Salvador and, yes, some concerted propaganda, many of us find it hard to believe we have a stake in problems involving those countries.
Too many have thought of Central America as just that place way down below Mexico that cannot possibly constitute a threat to our well-being.
And that is why I have asked for this session.
Central America's problems do directly affect the security and the well-being of our own people.
And Central America is much closer to the United States than many of the world troublespots that concern us.
So, we work to restore our own economy; we cannot afford to lose sight of our neighbors to the south.
El Salvador is nearer to Texas than Texas is to Massachusetts.
Nicaragua is just as close to Miami, San Antonio, San Diego, and Tucson as those cities are to Washington, where we are gathered tonight.
But nearness on the map does not even begin to tell the strategic importance of Central America, bordering as it does on the Caribbean  our lifeline to the outside world.
Two-thirds of all our foreign trade and petroleum pass through the Panama Canal and the Caribbean.
In a European crisis at least half of our supplies for NATO would go through these areas by sea.
It's well to remember that in early 1942, a handful of Hitler's submarines sank more tonnage there than in all of the Atlantic Ocean.
And they did this without a single naval base anywhere in the area.
And today, the situation is different.
Cuba is host to a Soviet combat brigade, a submarine base capable of servicing Soviet submarines, and military air bases visited regularly by Soviet military aircraft.
Because of its importance, the Caribbean Basin is a magnet for adventurism.
We're all aware of the Libyan cargo planes refueling in Brazil a few days ago on their way to deliver medical supplies to Nicaragua.
Brazilian authorities discovered the so-called medical supplies were actually munitions and prevented their delivery.
You may remember that last month, speaking on national television, I showed an aerial photo of an airfield being built on the island of Grenada.
Well, if that airfield had been completed, those planes could have refueled there and completed their journey.
If the Nazis during World War II and the Soviets today could recognize the Caribbean and Central America as vital to our interests, should not we, also? For several years now, under two administrations, the United States has been increasing its defense of freedom in the Caribbean Basin.
And I can tell you tonight, democracy is beginning to take root in El Salvador, which, until a short time ago, knew only dictatorship.
The new government is now delivering on its promises of democracy, reforms, and free elections.
It was not easy, and there was resistance to many of the attempted reforms, with assassinations of some of the reformers.
Guerrilla bands and urban terrorists were portrayed in a worldwide propaganda campaign as freedom fighters, representative of the people.
Ten days before I came into office, the guerrillas launched what they called a final offensive to overthrow the government.
And their radio boasted that our new administration would be too late to prevent their victory.
Well, they learned that democracy cannot be so easily defeated.
President Carter did not hesitate.
He authorized arms and munitions to El Salvador.
The guerrilla offensive failed, but not America's will.
Every President since this country assumed global responsibilities has known that those responsibilities could only be met if we pursued a bipartisan foreign policy.
As I said a moment ago, the Government of El Salvador has been keeping its promises, like the land reform program which is making thousands of farm tenants, farm owners.
In a little over 3 years, 20 percent of the arable land in El Salvador has been redistributed to more than 450,000 people.
That's one in ten Salvadorans who have benefited directly from this program.
El Salvador has continued to strive toward an orderly and democratic society.
The government promised free elections.
On March 28th, a little more than a year ago, after months of campaigning by a variety of candidates, the suffering people of El Salvador were offered a chance to vote, to choose the kind of government they wanted.
And suddenly, the so-called freedom fighters in the hills were exposed for what they really are  a small minority who want power for themselves and their backers, not democracy for the people.
The guerrillas threatened death to anyone who voted.
They destroyed hundreds of buses and trucks to keep the people from getting to the polling places.
Their slogan was brutal: Vote today, die tonight.
But on election day, an unprecedented 80 percent of the electorate braved ambush and gunfire and trudged for miles, many of them, to vote for freedom.
Now, that is truly fighting for freedom.
We can never turn our backs on that.
Members of this Congress who went there as observers told me of a woman who was wounded by rifle fire on the way to the polls, who refused to leave the line to have her wound treated until after she had voted.
Another woman had been told by the guerrillas that she would be killed when she returned from the polls, and she told the guerrillas, You can kill me, you can kill my family, you can kill my neighbors.
You cannot kill us all.
The real freedom fighters of El Salvador turned out to be the people of that country  the young, the old, the in-between  more than a million of them out of a population of less than 5 million.
The world should respect this courage and not allow it to be belittled or forgotten.
And again I say, in good conscience, we can never turn our backs on that.
The democratic political parties and factions in El Salvador are coming together around the common goal of seeking a political solution to their country's problems.
New national elections will be held this year, and they will be open to all political parties.
The government has invited the guerrillas to participate in the election and is preparing an amnesty law.
The people of El Salvador are earning their freedom, and they deserve our moral and material support to protect it.
Yes, there are still major problems regarding human rights, the criminal justice system, and violence against noncombatants.
And, like the rest of Central America, El Salvador also faces severe economic problems.
But in addition to recession-depressed prices for major agricultural exports, El Salvador's economy is being deliberately sabotaged.
Tonight in El Salvador  because of ruthless guerrilla attacks  much of the fertile land cannot be cultivated; less than half the rolling stock of the railways remains operational; bridges, water facilities, telephone and electric systems have been destroyed and damaged.
In one 22-month period, there were 5,000 interruptions of electrical power.
One region was without electricity for a third of the year.
I think Secretary of State Shultz put it very well the other day: Unable to win the free loyalty of El Salvador's people, the guerrillas, he said, are deliberately and systematically depriving them of food, water, transportation, light, sanitation, and jobs.
And these are the people who claim they want to help the common people.
They do not want elections because they know they had be defeated.
But, as the previous election showed, the Salvadoran people's desire for democracy will not be defeated.
The guerrillas are not embattled peasants, armed with muskets.
They're professionals, sometimes with better training and weaponry than the government's soldiers.
The Salvadoran battalions that have received U.
S.
training have been conducting themselves well on the battlefield and with the civilian population.
But so far, we have only provided enough money to train one Salvadoran soldier out of ten, fewer than the number of guerrillas that are trained by Nicaragua and Cuba.
And let me set the record straight on Nicaragua, a country next to El Salvador.
In 1979 when the new government took over in Nicaragua, after a revolution which overthrew the authoritarian rule of Somoza, everyone hoped for the growth of democracy.
We in the United States did, too.
By January of 1981, our emergency relief and recovery aid to Nicaragua totalled $118 million-more than provided by any other developed country.
In fact, in the first 2 years of Sandinista rule, the United States directly or indirectly sent five times more aid to Nicaragua than it had in the 2 years prior to the revolution.
Can anyone doubt the generosity and the good faith of the American people?These were hardly the actions of a nation implacably hostile to Nicaragua.
Yet, the Government of Nicaragua has treated us as an enemy.
It has rejected our repeated peace efforts.
It has broken its promises to us, to the Organization of American States and, most important of all, to the people of Nicaragua.
No sooner was victory achieved than a small clique ousted others who had been part of the revolution from having any voice in the government.
Humberto Ortega, the Minister of Defense, declared Marxism-Leninism would be their guide, and so it is.
The Government of Nicaragua has imposed a new dictatorship.
It has refused to hold the elections it promised.
It has seized control of most media and subjects all media to heavy prior censorship.
It denied the bishops and priests of the Roman Catholic Church the right to say Mass on radio during Holy Week.
It insulted and mocked the Pope.
It has driven the Miskito Indians from their homelands, burning their villages, destroying their crops, and forcing them into involuntary internment camps far from home.
It has moved against the private sector and free labor unions.
It condoned mob action against Nicaragua's independent human rights commission and drove the director of that commission into exile.
In short, after all these acts of repression by the government, is it any wonder that opposition has formed? Contrary to propaganda, the opponents of the Sandinistas are not diehard supporters of the previous Somoza regime.
In fact, many are anti-Somoza heroes and fought beside the Sandinistas to bring down the Somoza government.
Now they have been denied any part in the new government because they truly wanted democracy for Nicaragua and they still do.
Others are Miskito Indians fighting for their homes, their lands, and their lives.
The Sandinista revolution in Nicaragua turned out to be just an exchange of one set of autocratic rulers for another, and the people still have no freedom, no democratic rights, and more poverty.
Even worse than its predecessor, it is helping Cuba and the Soviets to destabilize our hemisphere.
Meanwhile, the Government of El Salvador, making every effort to guarantee democracy, free labor unions, freedom of religion, and a free press, is under attack by guerrillas dedicated to the same philosophy that prevails in Nicaragua, Cuba, and, yes, the Soviet Union.
Violence has been Nicaragua's most important export to the world.
It is the ultimate in hypocrisy for the unelected Nicaraguan Government to charge that we seek their overthrow, when they are doing everything they can to bring down the elected Government of El Salvador.
Thank you.
The guerrilla attacks are directed from a headquarters in Managua, the capital of Nicaragua.
But let us be clear as to the American attitude toward the Government of Nicaragua.
We do not seek its overthrow.
Our interest is to ensure that it does not infect its neighbors through the export of subversion and violence.
Our purpose, in conformity with American and international law, is to prevent the flow of arms to El Salvador, Honduras, Guatemala, and Costa Rica.
We have attempted to have a dialog with the Government of Nicaragua, but it persists in its efforts to spread violence.
We should not, and we will not, protect the Nicaraguan Government from the anger of its own people.
But we should, through diplomacy, offer an alternative.
And as Nicaragua ponders its options, we can and will  with all the resources of diplomacy-protect each country of Central America from the danger of war.
Even Costa Rica, Central America's oldest and strongest democracy  a government so peaceful it does not even have an army  is the object of bullying and threats from Nicaragua's dictators.
Nicaragua's neighbors know that Sandinista promises of peace, nonalliance, and nonintervention have not been kept.
Some 36 new military bases have been built.
There were only 13 during the Somoza years.
Nicaragua's new army numbers 25,000 men, supported by a militia of 50,000.
It is the largest army in Central America, supplemented by 2,000 Cuban military and security advisers.
It is equipped with the most modern weapons-dozens of Soviet-made tanks, 800 Sovietbloc trucks, Soviet 152-millimeter howitzers, 100 anti-aircraft guns, plus planes and helicopters.
There are additional thousands of civilian advisers from Cuba, the Soviet Union, East Germany, Libya, and the PLO And we are attacked because we have 55 military trainers in El Salvador.
The goal of the professional guerrilla movements in Central America is as simple as it is sinister: to destabilize the entire region from the Panama Canal to Mexico.
And if you doubt beyond this point, just consider what Cayetano Carpio, the now-deceased Salvadoran guerrilla leader, said earlier this month.
Carpio said that after El Salvador falls, El Salvador and Nicaragua would be arm-in-arm and struggling for the total liberation of Central America.
Nicaragua's dictatorial junta, who themselves made war and won power operating from bases in Honduras and Costa Rica, like to pretend that they are today being attacked by forces based in Honduras.
The fact is, it is Nicaragua's government that threatens Honduras, not the reverse.
It is Nicaragua who has moved heavy tanks close to the border, and Nicaragua who speaks of war.
It was Nicaraguan radio that announced on April 8th the creation of a new, unified, revolutionary coordinating board to push forward the Marxist struggle in Honduras.
Nicaragua, supported by weapons and military resources provided by the Communist bloc, represses its own people, refuses to make peace, and sponsors a guerrilla war against El Salvador.
President Truman's words are as apt today as they were in 1947 when he, too, spoke before a joint session of the Congress:At the present moment in world history, nearly every nation must choose between alternate ways of life.
The choice is not too often a free one.
One way of life is based upon the will of the majority and is distinguished by free institutions, representative government, free elections, guarantees of individual liberty, freedom of speech and religion, and freedom from political oppression.
The second way of life is based upon the will of a minority forcibly imposed upon the majority.
It relies upon terror and oppression, a controlled press and radio, fixed elections, and the suppression of personal freedoms.
I believe that it must be the policy of the United States to support free peoples who are resisting attempted subjugation by armed minorities or by outside pressures.
I believe that we must assist free peoples to work out their own destinies in their own way.
I believe that our help should be primarily through economic and financial aid which is essential to economic stability and orderly political processes.
Collapse of free institutions and loss of independence would be disastrous not only for them but for the world.
Discouragement and possibly failure would quickly be the lot of neighboring peoples striving to maintain their freedom and independence.
The countries of Central America are smaller than the nations that prompted President Truman's message.
But the political and strategic stakes are the same.
Will our response  economic, social, military  be as appropriate and successful as  Truman's bold solutions to the problems of postwar Europe?Some people have forgotten the successes of those years and the decades of peace, prosperity, and freedom they secured.
Some people talk as though the United States were incapable of acting effectively in international affairs without risking war or damaging those we seek to help.
Are democracies required to remain passive while threats to their security and prosperity accumulate? Must we just accept the destabilization of an entire region from the Panama Canal to Mexico on our southern border? Must we sit by while independent nations of this hemisphere are integrated into the most aggressive empire the modern world has seen? Must we wait while Central Americans are driven from their homes like the more than a million who have sought refuge out of Afghanistan, or the 1 1/2 million who have fled Indochina, or the more than a million Cubans who have fled Castro's Caribbean utopia? Must we, by default, leave the people of El Salvador no choice but to flee their homes, creating another tragic human exodus?I do not believe there is a majority in the Congress or the country that counsels passivity, resignation, defeatism, in the face of this challenge to freedom and security in our own hemisphere.
Thank you.
Thank you.
I do not believe that a majority of the Congress or the country is prepared to stand by passively while the people of Central America are delivered to totalitarianism and we ourselves are left vulnerable to new dangers.
Only last week, an official of the Soviet Union reiterated Brezhnev's threat to station nuclear missiles in this hemisphere, 5 minutes from the United States.
Like an echo, Nicaragua's Commandante Daniel Ortega confirmed that, if asked, his country would consider accepting those missiles.
I understand that today they may be having second thoughts.
Now, before I go any further, let me say to those who invoke the memory of Vietnam, there is no thought of sending American combat troops to Central America.
They are not needed  Thank you.
And, as I say, they are not needed and, indeed, they have not been requested there.
All our neighbors ask of us is assistance in training and arms to protect themselves while they build a better, freer life.
We must continue to encourage peace among the nations of Central America.
We must support the regional efforts now underway to promote solutions to regional problems.
We cannot be certain that the Marxist-Leninist bands who believe war is an instrument of politics will be readily discouraged.
It's crucial that we not become discouraged before they do.
Otherwise, the region's freedom will be lost and our security damaged in ways that can hardly be calculated.
If Central America were to fall, what would the consequences be for our position in Asia, Europe, and for alliances such as NATO? If the United States cannot respond to a threat near our own borders, why should Europeans or Asians believe that we are seriously concerned about threats to them? If the Soviets can assume that nothing short of an actual attack on the United States will provoke an American response, which ally, which friend will trust us then?The Congress shares both the power and the responsibility for our foreign policy.
Tonight, I ask you, the Congress, to join me in a bold, generous approach to the problems of peace and poverty, democracy and dictatorship in the region.
Join me in a program that prevents Communist victory in the short run, but goes beyond, to produce for the deprived people of the area the reality of present progress and the promise of more to come.
Let us lay the foundation for a bipartisan approach to sustain the independence and freedom of the countries of Central America.
We in the administration reach out to you in this spirit.
We will pursue four basic goals in Central America:First, in response to decades of inequity and indifference, we will support democracy, reform, and human freedom.
This means using our assistance, our powers of persuasion, and our legitimate leverage to bolster humane democratic systems where they already exist and to help countries on their way to that goal complete the process as quickly as human institutions can be changed.
Elections in El Salvador and also in Nicaragua must be open to all, fair and safe.
The international community must help.
We will work at human rights problems, not walk away from them.
Second, in response to the challenge of world recession and, in the case of El Salvador, to the unrelenting campaign of economic sabotage by the guerrillas, we will support economic development.
And by a margin of 2 to 1 our aid is economic now, not military.
Seventy-seven cents out of every dollar we will spend in the area this year goes for food, fertilizers, and other essentials for economic growth and development.
And our economic program goes beyond traditional aid.
The Caribbean Initiative introduced in the House earlier today will provide powerful trade and investment incentives to help these countries achieve self-sustaining economic growth without exporting U.
S.
jobs.
Our goal must be to focus our immense and growing technology to enhance health care, agriculture, industry, and to ensure that we who inhabit this interdependent region come to know and understand each other better, retaining our diverse identities, respecting our diverse traditions and institutions.
And, third, in response to the military challenge from Cuba and Nicaragua  to their deliberate use of force to spread tyranny  we will support the security of the region's threatened nations.
We do not view security assistance as an end in itself, but as a shield for democratization, economic development, and diplomacy.
No amount of reform will bring peace so long as guerrillas believe they will win by force.
No amount of economic help will suffice if guerrilla units can destroy roads and bridges and power stations and crops, again and again, with impunity.
But with better training and material help, our neighbors can hold off the guerrillas and give democratic reform time to take root.
And, fourth, we will support dialog and negotiations both among the countries of the region and within each country.
The terms and conditions of participation in elections are negotiable.
Costa Rica is a shining example of democracy.
Honduras has made the move from military rule to democratic government.
Guatemala is pledged to the same course.
The United States will work toward a political solution in Central America which will serve the interests of the democratic process.
To support these diplomatic goals, I offer these assurances: The United States will support any agreement among Central American countries for the withdrawal, under fully verifiable and reciprocal conditions, of all foreign military and security advisers and troops.
We want to help opposition groups join the political process in all countries and compete by ballots instead of bullets.
We will support any verifiable, reciprocal agreement among Central American countries on the renunciation of support for insurgencies on neighbors' territory.
And, finally, we desire to help Central America end its costly arms race and will support any verifiable, reciprocal agreements on the nonimportation of offensive weapons.
To move us toward these goals more rapidly, I am tonight announcing my intention to name an Ambassador at Large as my special envoy to Central America.
He or she will report to me through the Secretary of State.
The Ambassador's responsibilities will be to lend U.
S.
support to the efforts of regional governments to bring peace to this troubled area and to work closely with the Congress to assure the fullest possible, bipartisan coordination of our policies toward the region.
What I am asking for is prompt congressional approval for the full reprogramming of funds for key current economic and security programs so that the people of Central America can hold the line against externally supported aggression.
In addition, I am asking for prompt action on the supplemental request in these same areas to carry us through the current fiscal year and for early and favorable congressional action on my requests for fiscal year 1984.
And finally, I am asking that the bipartisan consensus, which last year acted on the trade and tax provisions of the Caribbean Basin Initiative in the House, again take the lead to move this vital proposal to the floor of both Chambers.
And, as I said before, the greatest share of these requests is targeted toward economic and humanitarian aid, not military.
What the administration is asking for on behalf of freedom in Central America is so small, so minimal, considering what is at stake.
The total amount requested for aid to all of Central America in 1984 is about $600 million.
That's less than one-tenth of what Americans will spend this year on coin-operated video games.
In summation, I say to you that tonight there can be no question: The national security of all the Americas is at stake in Central America.
If we cannot defend ourselves there, we cannot expect to prevail elsewhere.
Our credibility would collapse, our alliances would crumble, and the safety of our homeland would be put in jeopardy.
We have a vital interest, a moral duty, and a solemn responsibility.
This is not a partisan issue.
It is a question of our meeting our moral responsibility to ourselves, our friends, and our posterity.
It is a duty that falls on all of us  the President, the Congress, and the people.
We must perform it together.
Who among us would wish to bear responsibility for failing to meet our shared obligation?Thank you, God bless you, and good night.
King, members of the King family, distinguished Members of the Congress, ladies and gentlemen, honored guests, I am very pleased to welcome you to the White House, the home that belongs to all of us, the American people.
When I was thinking of the contributions to our country of the man that we are honoring today, a passage attributed to the American poet John Greenleaf Whittier comes to mind.
Each crisis brings its word and deed.
In America, in the fifties and sixties, one of the important crises we faced was racial discrimination.
The man whose words and deeds in that crisis stirred our nation to the very depths of its soul was  Martin Luther King, Martin Luther King was born in 1929 in an America where, because of the color of their skin, nearly 1 in 10 lived lives that were separate and unequal.
Most black Americans were taught in segregated schools.
Across the country, too many could find only poor jobs, toiling for low wages.
They were refused entry into hotels and restaurants, made to use separate facilities.
In a nation that proclaimed liberty and justice for all, too many black Americans were living with neither.
In one city, a rule required all blacks to sit in the rear of public buses.
But in 1955, when a brave woman named Rosa Parks was told to move to the back of the bus, she said, No.
A young minister in a local Baptist church, Martin Luther King, then organized a boycott of the bus company  a boycott that stunned the country.
Within 6 months the courts had ruled the segregation of public transportation unconstitutional.
King had awakened something strong and true, a sense that true justice must be colorblind, and that among white and black Americans, as he put it, Their destiny is tied up with our destiny, and their freedom is inextricably bound to our freedom; we cannot walk alone.
In the years after the bus boycott,  King made equality of rights his life's work.
Across the country, he organized boycotts, rallies, and marches.
Often he was beaten, imprisoned, but he never stopped teaching nonviolence.
Work with the faith, he told his followers, that unearned suffering is redemptive.
In 1964  King became the youngest man in history to win the Nobel Peace Prize.
King's work brought him to this city often.
And in one sweltering August day in 1963, he addressed a quarter of a million people at the Lincoln Memorial.
If American history grows from two centuries to twenty, his words that day will never be forgotten.
I have a dream that one day on the red hills of Georgia, the sons of former slaves and the sons of former slave owners will be able to sit down together at the table of brotherhood.
In 1968 Martin Luther King was gunned down by a brutal assassin, his life cut short at the age of 39.
But those 39 short years had changed America forever.
The Civil Rights Act of 1964 had guaranteed all Americans equal use of public accommodations, equal access to programs financed by Federal funds, and the right to compete for employment on the sole basis of individual merit.
The Voting Rights Act of 1965 had made certain that from then on black Americans would get to vote.
But most important, there was not just a change of law; there was a change of heart.
The conscience of America had been touched.
Across the land, people had begun to treat each other not as blacks and whites, but as fellow Americans.
And since  King's death, his father, the Reverend Martin Luther King, , and his wife, Coretta King, have eloquently and forcefully carried on his work.
Also his family have joined in that cause.
Now our nation has decided to honor  Martin Luther King, , by setting aside a day each year to remember him and the just cause he stood for.
We've made historic strides since Rosa Parks refused to go to the back of the bus.
As a democratic people, we can take pride in the knowledge that we Americans recognized a grave injustice and took action to correct it.
And we should remember that in far too many countries, people like  King never have the opportunity to speak out at all.
But traces of bigotry still mar America.
So, each year on Martin Luther King Day, let us not only recall  King, but rededicate ourselves to the Commandments he believed in and sought to live every day: Thou shall love thy God with all thy heart, and thou shall love thy neighbor as thyself.
And I just have to believe that all of us  if all of us, young and old, Republicans and Democrats, do all we can to live up to those Commandments, then we will see the day when  King's dream comes true, and in his words, All of God's children will be able to sing with new meaning, '.
land where my fathers died, land of the pilgrim's pride, from every mountainside, let freedom ring.
'Thank you, God bless you, and I will sign it.
Officers and men and women of the corps, ladies and gentlemen, I came here today to pay homage to the heroes of Lebanon and Grenada.
We grieve along with the families of these brave, proud Americans who have given their lives for their country and for the preservation of peace.
I have just met with the families of many of those who were killed.
I think all Americans would cradle them in our arms if we could.
We share their sorrow.
I want all of you who lost loved ones and friends to know that the thoughts and prayers of this nation are with you.
If this country is to remain a force for good in the world, we will face times like these, times of sadness and loss.
Your fellow citizens know and appreciate that marines and their families are carrying a heavy burden.
America seeks no new territory, nor do we wish to dominate others.
We commit our resources and risk the lives of those in our Armed Forces to rescue others from bloodshed and turmoil and to prevent humankind from drowning in a sea of tyranny.
In Lebanon, along with our allies, we are working hard to help bring peace to that war-torn country and stability to the vital Middle East.
In seeking to stabilize the situation in Lebanon, you marines and sailors-and our French, Italian, and English companions  are peacekeepers in the truest sense of the word.
The world looks to America for leadership.
And America looks to the men in its Armed Forces  to the Corps of Marines, to the Navy, the Army.
Freedom is being tested throughout the world.
In Burma, that government has announced conclusive evidence of North Korean responsibility for the atrocity taking the lives of many members of the Korean Government.
We stand with South Korea, and I will be going there next week to carry our message to them, a message of revulsion of this atrocity, determination to stand with our friends in support of freedom.
In the Middle East this morning, we have learned of yet another terrorist assault similar to the attack against our marines, this time against an Israeli site in Tyre, Lebanon.
In spite of the complexity and special hardships of the Lebanese crisis, we have stood firm.
As ever, leathernecks are willing to accept their mission and do their duty.
This honest patriotism and dedication to duty overwhelms the rest of us.
In Grenada, our military forces moved quickly and professionally to protect American lives and respond to an urgent request from the Organization of Eastern Caribbean States.
We joined in an effort to restore order and democracy to that strife-torn island.
Only days before our actions, Prime Minister Maurice Bishop had been brutally murdered, along with several members of his Cabinet and unarmed civilians.
With a thousand Americans, including some 800 students, on that island, we were not about to wait for the Iran crisis to repeat itself, only this time, in our own neighborhood-the Caribbean.
In a free society there is bound to be disagreement about any decisive course of action.
Some of those so quick to criticize our operation in Grenada, I invite them to read the letters I have received from those students and their families.
They know this was no invasion; they know it was a rescue mission.
Marines have a saying  We take care of our own.
Well, America, with the help of marines, will take care of our own.
And our brave marines, soldiers, and special forces  including the truly gallant Navy Seals  were not just coming to the aid of our students.
I hope every American will be able to hear the stories of the political prisoners who have been freed.
The citizens of Grenada, who watched helplessly as their country was being stolen from them and turned into a staging area for totalitarian aggression  these same Grenadians are hailing us as liberators, and they are doing everything they can now to help.
Every American can be proud of the professional and gallant job that our Armed Forces have done.
And all of us can rejoice that they are coming home.
I came here today to honor so many who did their duty and gave that last, full measure of their devotion.
They kept faith with us and our way of life.
We would not be free long, but for the dedication of such individuals.
They were heroes.
We're grateful to have had them with us.
The motto of the United States Marine Corps: Semper Fidelis  always faithful.
Well, the rest of us must remain always faithful to those ideals which so many have given their lives to protect.
Our heritage of liberty must be preserved and passed on.
Let no terrorist question our will or no tyrant doubt our resolve.
Americans have courage and determination, and we must not and will not be intimidated by anyone, anywhere.
Since 1775, marines, just like many of you, have shaped the strength and resolve of the United States.
Your role is as important today as at any time in our history.
Our hearts go out to the families of the brave men that we honor today.
Let us close ranks with them in tribute to our fallen heroes, their loved ones, who gave more than can ever be repaid.
They're now part of the soul of this great country and will live as long as out liberty shines as a beacon of hope to all those who long for freedom and a better world.
One of the men in the early days of our nation, John Stuart Mill, said, War is an ugly thing, but not the ugliest of things.
The ugliest is that man who thinks nothing is worth fighting or dying for and lets men better and braver than himself protect him.
You are doing that for all of us.
God bless you, and thank you for what you are doing.
My fellow Americans:It's been nearly three years since I first spoke to you from this room.
Together we have faced many difficult problems, and I have come to feel a special bond of kinship with each one of you.
Tonight I am here for a different reason.
I have come to a difficult personal decision as to whether or not I should seek reelection.
When I first addressed you from here, our national defenses were dangerously weak, we had suffered humiliation in Iran, and at home we were adrift, possibly because of a failure here in Washington to trust the courage and character of you, the people.
But worst of all, we were on the brink of economic collapse from years of government overindulgence and abusive overtaxation.
Thus, I had to report that we were in the worst economic mess since the Great Depression.
Inflation had risen to over 13 percent in 1979 and to 19 percent in March of 1980.
Those back-to-back years of price explosions were the highest in more than 60 years.
In the five years before I came here, taxes had actually doubled.
Your cost-of-living pay raises just bumped you into higher tax brackets.
Interest rates over 21 percent, the highest in 120 years; productivity, down 2 consecutive years; industrial production down; actual wages and earnings down  the only things going up were prices, unemployment, taxes, and the size of government.
While you tightened your belt, the federal government tightened its grip.
Well, things have changed.
This past year inflation dropped down to 3.
2 percent.
Interest rates, cut nearly in half.
Retail sales are surging.
Homes are being built and sold.
Auto assembly lines are opening up.
And in just the last year, 4 million people have found jobs  the greatest employment gain in 33 years.
By beginning to rebuild our defenses, we have restored credible deterrence and can confidently seek a secure and lasting peace, as well as a reduction in arms.
As I said Wednesday night, America is back and standing tall.
We've begun to restore great American values  the dignity of work, the warmth of family, the strength of neighborhood, and the nourishment of human freedom.
But our work is not finished.
We have more to do in creating jobs, achieving control over government spending, returning more autonomy to the States, keeping peace in a more settled world, and seeing if we cannot find room in our schools for God.
At my inaugural, I quoted words that had been spoken over 200 years ago by  Joseph Warren, president of the Massachusetts Congress.
On you depend the fortunes of America, he told his fellow Americans.
You are to decide the important question on which rests the happiness and liberty of millions yet unborn.
And he added, Act worthy of yourselves.
Over these last three years, Nancy and I have been sustained by the way you, the real heroes of American democracy, have met  Warren's challenge.
You were magnificent as we pulled the Nation through the long night of our national calamity.
You have, indeed, acted worthy of yourselves.
Your high standards make us remember the central question of public service: Why are we here? Well, we are here to see that government continues to serve you, not the other way around.
We're here to lift the weak and to build the peace, and most important, we are here, as  Warren said, to act today for the happiness and liberty of millions yet unborn, to seize the future so that every new child of this beloved Republic can dream heroic dreams.
If we do less, we betray the memory of those who have given so much.
This historic room and the Presidency belong to you.
It is your right and responsibility every four years to give someone temporary custody of this office and of the institution of the Presidency.
You so honored me, and I am grateful  grateful and proud of what, together, we have accomplished.
We have made a new beginning.
Vice President Bush and I would like to have your continued support and cooperation in completing what we began three years ago.
I am, therefore, announcing that I am a candidate and will seek reelection to the office I presently hold.
Thank you for the trust you have placed in me.
God bless you, and good night.
My fellow Americans, Memorial Day is a day of ceremonies and speeches.
Throughout America today, we honor the dead of our wars.
We recall their valor and their sacrifices.
We remember they gave their lives so that others might live.
We're also gathered here for a special event  the national funeral for an unknown soldier who will today join the heroes of three other wars.
When he spoke at a ceremony at Gettysburg in 1863, President Lincoln reminded us that through their deeds, the dead had spoken more eloquently for themselves than any of the living ever could, and that we living could only honor them by rededicating ourselves to the cause for which they so willingly gave a last full measure of devotion.
Well, this is especially so today, for in our minds and hearts is the memory of Vietnam and all that that conflict meant for those who sacrificed on the field of battle and for their loved ones who suffered here at home.
Not long ago, when a memorial was dedicated here in Washington to our Vietnam veterans, the events surrounding that dedication were a stirring reminder of America's resilience, of how our nation could learn and grow and transcend the tragedies of the past.
During the dedication ceremonies, the rolls of those who died and are still missing were read for 3 days in a candlelight ceremony at the National Cathedral.
And the veterans of Vietnam who were never welcomed home with speeches and bands, but who were never defeated in battle and were heroes as surely as any who have ever fought in a noble cause, staged their own parade on Constitution Avenue.
As America watched them  some in wheelchairs, all of them proud  there was a feeling that this nation  that as a nation we were coming together again and that we had, at long last, welcomed the boys home.
A lot of healing went on, said one combat veteran who helped organize support for the memorial.
And then there was this newspaper account that appeared after the ceremonies.
I had like to read it to you.
Yesterday, crowds returned to the Memorial.
Among them was Herbie Petit, a machinist and former marine from New Orleans.
'Last night,' he said, standing near the wall, 'I went out to dinner with some other ex-marines.
There was also a group of college students in the restaurant.
We started talking to each other.
And before we left, they stood up and cheered us.
The whole week,' Petit said, his eyes red, 'it was worth it just for that.
'It has been worth it.
We Americans have learned to listen to each other and to trust each other again.
We've learned that government owes the people an explanation and needs their support for its actions at home and abroad.
And we have learned, and I pray this time for good, the most valuable lesson of all  the preciousness of human freedom.
It has been a lesson relearned not just by Americans but by all the people of the world.
Yet, while the experience of Vietnam has given us a stark lesson that ultimately must move the conscience of the world, we must remember that we cannot today, as much as some might want to, close this chapter in our history, for the war in Southeast Asia still haunts a small but brave group of Americans  the families of those still missing in the Vietnam conflict.
They live day and night with uncertainty, with an emptiness, with a void that we cannot fathom.
Today some sit among you.
Their feelings are a mixture of pride and fear.
They're proud of their sons or husbands, fathers or brothers who bravely and nobly answered the call of their country.
But some of them fear that this ceremony writes a final chapter, leaving those they love forgotten.
Well, today then, one way to honor those who served or may still be serving in Vietnam is to gather here and rededicate ourselves to securing the answers for the families of those missing in action.
I ask the Members of Congress, the leaders of veterans groups, and the citizens of an entire nation present or listening, to give these families your help and your support, for they still sacrifice and suffer.
Vietnam is not over for them.
They cannot rest until they know the fate of those they loved and watched march off to serve their country.
Our dedication to their cause must be strengthened with these events today.
We write no last chapters.
We close no books.
We put away no final memories.
An end to America's involvement in Vietnam cannot come before we have achieved the fullest possible accounting of those missing in action.
This can only happen when their families know with certainty that this nation discharged her duty to those who served nobly and well.
Today a united people call upon Hanoi with one voice: Heal the sorest wound of this conflict.
Return our sons to America.
End the grief of those who are innocent and undeserving of any retribution.
The Unknown Soldier who is returned to us today and whom we lay to rest is symbolic of all our missing sons, and we will present him with the Congressional Medal of Honor, the highest military decoration that we can bestow.
About him we may well wonder, as others have: As a child, did he play on some street in a great American city? Or did he work beside his father on a farm out in America's heartland? Did he marry? Did he have children? Did he look expectantly to return to a bride?We'll never know the answers to these questions about his life.
We do know, though, why he died.
He saw the horrors of war but bravely faced them, certain his own cause and his country's cause was a noble one; that he was fighting for human dignity, for free men everywhere.
Today we pause to embrace him and all who served us so well in a war whose end offered no parades, no flags, and so little thanks.
We can be worthy of the values and ideals for which our sons sacrificed  worthy of their courage in the face of a fear that few of us will ever experience  by honoring their commitment and devotion to duty and country.
Many veterans of Vietnam still serve in the Armed Forces, work in our offices, on our farms, and in our factories.
Most have kept their experiences private, but most have been strengthened by their call to duty.
A grateful nation opens her heart today in gratitude for their sacrifice, for their courage, and for their noble service.
Let us, if we must, debate the lessons learned at some other time.
Today, we simply say with pride, Thank you, dear son.
May God cradle you in His loving arms.
We present to you our nation's highest award, the Congressional Medal of Honor, for service above and beyond the call of duty in action with the enemy during the Vietnam era.
Thank you.
My fellow Americans, Memorial Day is a day of ceremonies and speeches.
Throughout America today, we honor the dead of our wars.
We recall their valor and their sacrifices.
We remember they gave their lives so that others might live.
We're also gathered here for a special event  the national funeral for an unknown soldier who will today join the heroes of three other wars.
When he spoke at a ceremony at Gettysburg in 1863, President Lincoln reminded us that through their deeds, the dead had spoken more eloquently for themselves than any of the living ever could, and that we living could only honor them by rededicating ourselves to the cause for which they so willingly gave a last full measure of devotion.
Well, this is especially so today, for in our minds and hearts is the memory of Vietnam and all that that conflict meant for those who sacrificed on the field of battle and for their loved ones who suffered here at home.
Not long ago, when a memorial was dedicated here in Washington to our Vietnam veterans, the events surrounding that dedication were a stirring reminder of America's resilience, of how our nation could learn and grow and transcend the tragedies of the past.
During the dedication ceremonies, the rolls of those who died and are still missing were read for three days in a candlelight ceremony at the National Cathedral.
And the veterans of Vietnam who were never welcomed home with speeches and bands, but who were never defeated in battle and were heroes as surely as any who have ever fought in a noble cause, staged their own parade on Constitution Avenue.
As America watched them  some in wheelchairs, all of them proud  there was a feeling that this nation  that as a nation we were coming together again and that we had, at long last, welcomed the boys home.
A lot of healing went on, said one combat veteran who helped organize support for the memorial.
And then there was this newspaper account that appeared after the ceremonies.
I had like to read it to you.
Yesterday, crowds returned to the Memorial.
Among them was Herbie Petit, a machinist and former marine from New Orleans.
'Last night,' he said, standing near the wall, 'I went out to dinner with some other ex-marines.
There was also a group of college students in the restaurant.
We started talking to each other.
And before we left, they stood up and cheered us.
The whole week,' Petit said, his eyes red, 'it was worth it just for that.
'It has been worth it.
We Americans have learned to listen to each other and to trust each other again.
We've learned that government owes the people an explanation and needs their support for its actions at home and abroad.
And we have learned, and I pray this time for good, the most valuable lesson of all  the preciousness of human freedom.
It has been a lesson relearned not just by Americans but by all the people of the world.
Yet, while the experience of Vietnam has given us a stark lesson that ultimately must move the conscience of the world, we must remember that we cannot today, as much as some might want to, close this chapter in our history, for the war in Southeast Asia still haunts a small but brave group of Americans  the families of those still missing in the Vietnam conflict.
They live day and night with uncertainty, with an emptiness, with a void that we cannot fathom.
Today some sit among you.
Their feelings are a mixture of pride and fear.
They're proud of their sons or husbands, fathers or brothers who bravely and nobly answered the call of their country.
But some of them fear that this ceremony writes a final chapter, leaving those they love forgotten.
Well, today then, one way to honor those who served or may still be serving in Vietnam is to gather here and rededicate ourselves to securing the answers for the families of those missing in action.
I ask the Members of Congress, the leaders of veterans groups, and the citizens of an entire nation present or listening, to give these families your help and your support, for they still sacrifice and suffer.
Vietnam is not over for them.
They cannot rest until they know the fate of those they loved and watched march off to serve their country.
Our dedication to their cause must be strengthened with these events today.
We write no last chapters.
We close no books.
We put away no final memories.
An end to America's involvement in Vietnam cannot come before we have achieved the fullest possible accounting of those missing in action.
This can only happen when their families know with certainty that this nation discharged her duty to those who served nobly and well.
Today a united people call upon Hanoi with one voice: Heal the sorest wound of this conflict.
Return our sons to America.
End the grief of those who are innocent and undeserving of any retribution.
The Unknown Soldier who is returned to us today and whom we lay to rest is symbolic of all our missing sons, and we will present him with the Congressional Medal of Honor, the highest military decoration that we can bestow.
About him we may well wonder, as others have: As a child, did he play on some street in a great American city? Or did he work beside his father on a farm out in America's heartland? Did he marry? Did he have children? Did he look expectantly to return to a bride?We'll never know the answers to these questions about his life.
We do know, though, why he died.
He saw the horrors of war but bravely faced them, certain his own cause and his country's cause was a noble one; that he was fighting for human dignity, for free men everywhere.
Today we pause to embrace him and all who served us so well in a war whose end offered no parades, no flags, and so little thanks.
We can be worthy of the values and ideals for which our sons sacrificed  worthy of their courage in the face of a fear that few of us will ever experience  by honoring their commitment and devotion to duty and country.
Many veterans of Vietnam still serve in the Armed Forces, work in our offices, on our farms, and in our factories.
Most have kept their experiences private, but most have been strengthened by their call to duty.
A grateful nation opens her heart today in gratitude for their sacrifice, for their courage, and for their noble service.
Let us, if we must, debate the lessons learned at some other time.
Today, we simply say with pride, Thank you, dear son.
May God cradle you in His loving arms.
We present to you our nation's highest award, the Congressional Medal of Honor, for service above and beyond the call of duty in action with the enemy during the Vietnam era.
Thank you.
Speaker,  President, distinguished members of the Congress, honored guests, and fellow citizens:Once again, in keeping with time-honored tradition, I have come to report to you on the state of the Union, and I am pleased to report that America is much improved, and there is good reason to believe that improvement will continue through the days to come.
You and I have had some honest and open differences in the year past.
But they did not keep us from joining hands in bipartisan cooperation to stop a long decline that had drained this nation's spirit and eroded its health.
There is renewed energy and optimism throughout the land.
America is back, standing tall, looking to the '80s with courage, confidence, and hope.
The problems we are overcoming are not the heritage of one person, party, or even one generation.
It's just the tendency of government to grow, for practices and programs to become the nearest thing to eternal life we will ever see on this Earth.
And there is always that well-intentioned chorus of voices saying, With a little more power and a little more money, we could do so much for the people.
For a time we forgot the American dream is not one of making government bigger; it is keeping faith with the mighty spirit of free people under God.
As we came to the decade of the '80s, we faced the worst crisis in our postwar history.
In the '70s were years of rising problems and falling confidence.
There was a feeling government had grown beyond the consent of the governed.
Families felt helpless in the face of mounting inflation and the indignity of taxes that reduced reward for hard work, thrift, and risktaking.
All this was overlaid by an evergrowing web of rules and regulations.
On the international scene, we had an uncomfortable feeling that we had lost the respect of friend and foe.
Some questioned whether we had the will to defend peace and freedom.
But America is too great for small dreams.
There was a hunger in the land for a spiritual revival; if you will, a crusade for renewal.
The American people said: Let us look to the future with confidence, both at home and abroad.
Let us give freedom a chance.
Americans were ready to make a new beginning, and together we have done it.
We're confronting our problems one by one.
Hope is alive tonight for millions of young families and senior citizens set free from unfair tax increases and crushing inflation.
Inflation has been beaten down from 12.
4 to 3.
2 percent, and that is a great victory for all the people.
The prime rate has been cut almost in half, and we must work together to bring it down even more.
Together, we passed the first across-the-board tax reduction for everyone since the Kennedy tax cuts.
Next year, tax rates will be indexed so inflation cannot push people into higher brackets when they get cost-of-living pay raises.
Government must never again use inflation to profit at the people's expense.
Today a working family earning $25,000 has $1,100 more in purchasing power than if tax and inflation rates were still at the 1980 levels.
Real after-tax income increased 5 percent last year.
And economic deregulation of key industries like transportation has offered more chances  or choices, I should say, to consumers and new changes  or chances for entrepreneurs and protecting safety.
Tonight, we can report and be proud of one of the best recoveries in decades.
Send away the handwringers and the doubting Thomases.
Hope is reborn for couples dreaming of owning homes and for risktakers with vision to create tomorrow's opportunities.
The spirit of enterprise is sparked by the sunrise industries of high-tech and by small business people with big ideas  people like Barbara Proctor, who rose from a ghetto to build a multimillion-dollar advertising agency in Chicago; Carlos Perez, a Cuban refugee, who turned $27 and a dream into a successful importing business in Coral Gables, Florida.
People like these are heroes for the '80s.
They helped four million Americans find jobs in 1983.
More people are drawing paychecks tonight than ever before.
And Congress helps  or progress helps everyone  well, Congress does too    everyone.
In 1983 women filled 73 percent of all the new jobs in managerial, professional, and technical fields.
But we know that many of our fellow countrymen are still out of work, wondering what will come of their hopes and dreams.
Can we love America and not reach out to tell them: You are not forgotten; we will not rest until each of you can reach as high as your God-given talents will take you.
The heart of America is strong; it is good and true.
The cynics were wrong; America never was a sick society.
We're seeing rededication to bedrock values of faith, family, work, neighborhood, peace, and freedom  values that help bring us together as one people, from the youngest child to the most senior citizen.
The Congress deserves America's thanks for helping us restore pride and credibility to our military.
And I hope that you are as proud as I am of the young men and women in uniform who have volunteered to man the ramparts in defense of freedom and whose dedication, valor, and skill increases so much our chance of living in a world at peace.
People everywhere hunger for peace and a better life.
The tide of the future is a freedom tide, and our struggle for democracy cannot and will not be denied.
This nation champions peace that enshrines liberty, democratic rights, and dignity for every individual.
America's new strength, confidence, and purpose are carrying hope and opportunity far from our shores.
A world economic recovery is underway.
It began here.
We've journeyed far, but we have much farther to go.
Franklin Roosevelt told us 50 years ago this month: Civilization can not go back; civilization must not stand still.
We have undertaken new methods.
It is our task to perfect, to improve, to alter when necessary, but in all cases to go forward.
It's time to move forward again, time for America to take freedom's next step.
Let us unite tonight behind four great goals to keep America free, secure, and at peace in the '80s together.
We can ensure steady economic growth.
We can develop America's next frontier.
We can strengthen our traditional values.
And we can build a meaningful peace to protect our loved ones and this shining star of faith that has guided millions from tyranny to the safe harbor of freedom, progress, and hope.
Doing these things will open wider the gates of opportunity, provide greater security for all, with no barriers of bigotry or discrimination.
The key to a dynamic decade is vigorous economic growth, our first great goal.
We might well begin with common sense in federal budgeting: government spending no more than government takes in.
We must bring federal deficits down.
But how we do that makes all the difference.
We can begin by limiting the size and scope of government.
Under the leadership of Vice President Bush, we have reduced the growth of federal regulations by more than 25 percent and cut well over 300 million hours of government-required paperwork each year.
This will save the public more than $150 billion over the next 10 years.
The Grace Commission has given us some 2,500 recommendations for reducing wasteful spending, and they are being examined throughout the administration.
Federal spending growth has been cut from 17.
4 percent in 1980 to less than half of that today, and we have already achieved over $300 billion in budget savings for the period of 1982 to '86.
But that is only a little more than half of what we sought.
Government is still spending too large a percentage of the total economy.
Now, some insist that any further budget savings must be obtained by reducing the portion spent on defense.
This ignores the fact that national defense is solely the responsibility of the federal government; indeed, it is its prime responsibility.
And yet defense spending is less than a third of the total budget.
During the years of President Kennedy and of the years before that, defense was almost half the total budget.
And then came several years in which our military capability was allowed to deteriorate to a very dangerous degree.
We are just now restoring, through the essential modernization of our conventional and strategic forces, our capability to meet our present and future security needs.
We dare not shirk our responsibility to keep America free, secure, and at peace.
The last decade saw domestic spending surge literally out of control.
But the basis for such spending had been laid in previous years.
A pattern of overspending has been in place for half a century.
As the national debt grew, we were told not to worry, that we owed it to ourselves.
Now we know that deficits are a cause for worry.
But there is a difference of opinion as to whether taxes should be increased, spending cut, or some of both.
Fear is expressed that government borrowing to fund the deficit could inhibit the economic recovery by taking capital needed for business and industrial expansion.
Well, I think that debate is missing an important point.
Whether government borrows or increases taxes, it will be taking the same amount of money from the private sector, and, either way, that is too much.
Simple fairness dictates that government must not raise taxes on families struggling to pay their bills.
The root of the problem is that government's share is more than we can afford if we are to have a sound economy.
We must bring down the deficits to ensure continued economic growth.
In the budget that I will submit on February 1, I will recommend measures that will reduce the deficit over the next five years.
Many of these will be unfinished business from last year's budget.
Some could be enacted quickly if we could join in a serious effort to address this problem.
I spoke today with Speaker of the House O'Neill, Senate Majority Leader Baker, Senate Minority Leader Byrd, and House Minority Leader Michel.
I asked them if they would designate congressional representatives to meet with representatives of the administration to try to reach prompt agreement on a bipartisan deficit reduction plan.
I know it would take a long, hard struggle to agree on a full-scale plan.
So, what I have proposed is that we first see if we can agree on a down payment.
Now, I believe there is basis for such an agreement, one that could reduce the deficits by about $100 billion over the next three years.
We could focus on some of the less contentious spending cuts that are still pending before the Congress.
These could be combined with measures to close certain tax loopholes, measures that the Treasury Department has previously said to be worthy of support.
In addition, we could examine the possibility of achieving further outlay savings based on the work of the Grace Commission.
If the congressional leadership is willing, my representatives will be prepared to meet with theirs at the earliest possible time.
I would hope the leadership might agree on an expedited timetable in which to develop and enact that down payment.
But a down payment alone is not enough to break us out of the deficit problem.
It could help us start on the right path.
Yet, we must do more.
So, I propose that we begin exploring how together we can make structural reforms to curb the built-in growth of spending.
I also propose improvements in the budgeting process.
Some 43 of our 50 states grant their Governors the right to veto individual items in appropriation bills without having to veto the entire bill.
California is one of those 43 states.
As Governor, I found this line-item veto was a powerful tool against wasteful or extravagant spending.
It works in 43 states.
Let's put it to work in Washington for all the people.
It would be most effective if done by constitutional amendment.
The majority of Americans approve of such an amendment, just as they and I approve of an amendment mandating a balanced federal budget.
Many states also have this protection in their constitutions.
To talk of meeting the present situation by increasing taxes is a Band-Aid solution which does nothing to cure an illness that is been coming on for half a century  to say nothing of the fact that it poses a real threat to economic recovery.
Let's remember that a substantial amount of income tax is presently owed and not paid by people in the underground economy.
It would be immoral to make those who are paying taxes pay more to compensate for those who are not paying their share.
There's a better way.
Let us go forward with an historic reform for fairness, simplicity, and incentives for growth.
I am asking Secretary Don Regan for a plan for action to simplify the entire tax code, so all taxpayers, big and small, are treated more fairly.
And I believe such a plan could result in that underground economy being brought into the sunlight of honest tax compliance.
And it could make the tax base broader, so personal tax rates could come down, not go up.
I have asked that specific recommendations, consistent with those objectives, be presented to me by December 1984.
Our second great goal is to build on America's pioneer spirit    I said something funny?  I said America's next frontier  and that is to develop that frontier.
A sparkling economy spurs initiatives, sunrise industries, and makes older ones more competitive.
Nowhere is this more important than our next frontier: space.
Nowhere do we so effectively demonstrate our technological leadership and ability to make life better on Earth.
The Space Age is barely a quarter of a century old.
But already we have pushed civilization forward with our advances in science and technology.
Opportunities and jobs will multiply as we cross new thresholds of knowledge and reach deeper into the unknown.
Our progress in space  taking giant steps for all mankind  is a tribute to American teamwork and excellence.
Our finest minds in government, industry, and academia have all pulled together.
And we can be proud to say: We are first; we are the best; and we are so because we are free.
America has always been greatest when we dared to be great.
We can reach for greatness again.
We can follow our dreams to distant stars, living and working in space for peaceful, economic, and scientific gain.
Tonight, I am directing NASA to develop a permanently manned space station and to do it within a decade.
A space station will permit quantum leaps in our research in science, communications, in metals, and in lifesaving medicines which could be manufactured only in space.
We want our friends to help us meet these challenges and share in their benefits.
NASA will invite other countries to participate so we can strengthen peace, build prosperity, and expand freedom for all who share our goals.
Just as the oceans opened up a new world for clipper ships and Yankee traders, space holds enormous potential for commerce today.
The market for space transportation could surpass our capacity to develop it.
Companies interested in putting payloads into space must have ready access to private sector launch services.
The Department of Transportation will help an expendable launch services industry to get off the ground.
We'll soon implement a number of executive initiatives, develop proposals to ease regulatory constraints, and, with NASA's help, promote private sector investment in space.
And as we develop the frontier of space, let us remember our responsibility to preserve our older resources here on Earth.
Preservation of our environment is not a liberal or conservative challenge, it is common sense.
Though this is a time of budget constraints, I have requested for EPA one of the largest percentage budget increases of any agency.
We will begin the long, necessary effort to clean up a productive recreational area and a special national resource  the Chesapeake Bay.
To reduce the threat posed by abandoned hazardous waste dumps, EPA will spend $410 million.
And I will request a supplemental increase of $50 million.
And because the Superfund law expires in 1985, I have asked Bill Ruckelshaus to develop a proposal for its extension so there'll be additional time to complete this important task.
On the question of acid rain, which concerns people in many areas of the United States and Canada, I am proposing a research program that doubles our current funding.
And we will take additional action to restore our lakes and develop new technology to reduce pollution that causes acid rain.
We have greatly improved the conditions of our natural resources.
We'll ask the Congress for $157 million beginning in 1985 to acquire new park and conservation lands.
The Department of the Interior will encourage careful, selective exploration and production on our vital resources in an Exclusive Economic Zone within the 200-mile limit off our coasts  but with strict adherence to environmental laws and with fuller state and public participation.
But our most precious resources, our greatest hope for the future, are the minds and hearts of our people, especially our children.
We can help them build tomorrow by strengthening our community of shared values.
This must be our third great goal.
For us, faith, work, family, neighborhood, freedom, and peace are not just words; they are expressions of what America means, definitions of what makes us a good and loving people.
Families stand at the center of our society.
And every family has a personal stake in promoting excellence in education.
Excellence does not begin in Washington.
A 600-percent increase in federal spending on education between 1960 and 1980 was accompanied by a steady decline in Scholastic Aptitude Test scores.
Excellence must begin in our homes and neighborhood schools, where it is the responsibility of every parent and teacher and the right of every child.
Our children come first, and that is why I established a bipartisan National Commission on Excellence in Education, to help us chart a commonsense course for better education.
And already, communities are implementing the Commission's recommendations.
Schools are reporting progress in math and reading skills.
But we must do more to restore discipline to schools; and we must encourage the teaching of new basics, reward teachers of merit, enforce tougher standards, and put our parents back in charge.
I will continue to press for tuition tax credits to expand opportunities for families and to soften the double payment for those paying public school taxes and private school tuition.
Our proposal would target assistance to low- and middle-income families.
Just as more incentives are needed within our schools, greater competition is needed among our schools.
Without standards and competition, there can be no champions, no records broken, no excellence in education or any other walk of life.
And while I am on this subject, each day your members observe a 200-year-old tradition meant to signify America is one nation under God.
I must ask: If you can begin your day with a member of the clergy standing right here leading you in prayer, then why cannot freedom to acknowledge God be enjoyed again by children in every schoolroom across this land?America was founded by people who believed that God was their rock of safety.
He is ours.
I recognize we must be cautious in claiming that God is on our side, but I think it is all right to keep asking if we are on His side.
During our first three years, we have joined bipartisan efforts to restore protection of the law to unborn children.
Now, I know this issue is very controversial.
But unless and until it can be proven that an unborn child is not a living human being, can we justify assuming without proof that it is not? No one has yet offered such proof; indeed, all the evidence is to the contrary.
We should rise above bitterness and reproach, and if Americans could come together in a spirit of understanding and helping, then we could find positive solutions to the tragedy of abortion.
Economic recovery, better education, rededication to values, all show the spirit of renewal gaining the upper hand.
And all will improve family life in the '80s.
But families need more.
They need assurance that they and their loved ones can walk the streets of America without being afraid.
Parents need to know their children will not be victims of child pornography and abduction.
This year we will intensify our drive against these and other horrible crimes like sexual abuse and family violence.
Already our efforts to crack down on career criminals, organized crime, drugpushers, and to enforce tougher sentences and paroles are having effect.
In 1982 the crime rate dropped by 4.
3 percent, the biggest decline since 1972.
Protecting victims is just as important as safeguarding the rights of defendants.
Opportunities for all Americans will increase if we move forward in fair housing and work to ensure women's rights, provide for equitable treatment in pension benefits and Individual Retirement Accounts, facilitate child care, and enforce delinquent parent support payments.
It's not just the home but the workplace and community that sustain our values and shape our future.
So, I ask your help in assisting more communities to break the bondage of dependency.
Help us to free enterprise by permitting debate and voting yes on our proposal for enterprise zones in America.
This has been before you for two years.
Its passage can help high-unemployment areas by creating jobs and restoring neighborhoods.
A society bursting with opportunities, reaching for its future with confidence, sustained by faith, fair play, and a conviction that good and courageous people will flourish when they are free  these are the secrets of a strong and prosperous America at peace with itself and the world.
A lasting and meaningful peace is our fourth great goal.
It is our highest aspiration.
And our record is clear: Americans resort to force only when we must.
We have never been aggressors.
We have always struggled to defend freedom and democracy.
We have no territorial ambitions.
We occupy no countries.
We build no walls to lock people in.
Americans build the future.
And our vision of a better life for farmers, merchants, and working people, from the Americas to Asia, begins with a simple premise: The future is best decided by ballots, not bullets.
Governments which rest upon the consent of the governed do not wage war on their neighbors.
Only when people are given a personal stake in deciding their own destiny, benefiting from their own risks, do they create societies that are prosperous, progressive, and free.
Tonight, it is democracies that offer hope by feeding the hungry, prolonging life, and eliminating drudgery.
When it comes to keeping America strong, free, and at peace, there should be no Republicans or Democrats, just patriotic Americans.
We can decide the tough issues not by who is right, but by what is right.
Together, we can continue to advance our agenda for peace.
We can establish a more stable basis for peaceful relations with the Soviet Union; strengthen allied relations across the board; achieve real and equitable reductions in the levels of nuclear arms; reinforce our peacemaking efforts in the Middle East, Central America, and southern Africa; or assist developing countries, particularly our neighbors in the Western Hemisphere; and assist in the development of democratic institutions throughout the world.
The wisdom of our bipartisan cooperation was seen in the work of the Scowcroft Commission, which strengthened our ability to deter war and protect peace.
In that same spirit, I urge you to move forward with the Henry Jackson plan to implement the recommendations of the Bipartisan Commission on Central America.
Your joint resolution on the multinational peacekeeping force in Lebanon is also serving the cause of peace.
We are making progress in Lebanon.
For nearly 10 years, the Lebanese have lived from tragedy to tragedy with no hope for their future.
Now the multinational peacekeeping force and our marines are helping them break their cycle of despair.
There is hope for a free, independent, and sovereign Lebanon.
We must have the courage to give peace a chance.
And we must not be driven from our objectives for peace in Lebanon by state-sponsored terrorism.
We have seen this ugly specter in Beirut, Kuwait, and Rangoon.
It demands international attention.
I will forward shortly legislative proposals to help combat terrorism.
And I will be seeking support from our allies for concerted action.
Our NATO alliance is strong.
1983 was a banner year for political courage.
And we have strengthened our partnerships and our friendships in the Far East.
We're committed to dialog, deterrence, and promoting prosperity.
We'll work with our trading partners for a new round of negotiations in support of freer world trade, greater competition, and more open markets.
A rebirth of bipartisan cooperation, of economic growth, and military deterrence, and a growing spirit of unity among our people at home and our allies abroad underline a fundamental and far-reaching change: The United States is safer, stronger, and more secure in 1984 than before.
We can now move with confidence to seize the opportunities for peace, and we will.
Tonight, I want to speak to the people of the Soviet Union, to tell them it is true that our governments have had serious differences, but our sons and daughters have never fought each other in war.
And if we Americans have our way, they never will.
People of the Soviet Union, there is only one sane policy, for your country and mine, to preserve our civilization in this modern age: A nuclear war cannot be won and must never be fought.
The only value in our two nations possessing nuclear weapons is to make sure they will never be used.
But then would it not be better to do away with them entirely?People of the Soviet, President Dwight Eisenhower, who fought by your side in World War II, said the essential struggle is not merely man against man or nation against nation.
It is man against war.
Americans are people of peace.
If your government wants peace, there will be peace.
We can come together in faith and friendship to build a safer and far better world for our children and our children's children.
And the whole world will rejoice.
That is my message to you.
Some days when life seems hard and we reach out for values to sustain us or a friend to help us, we find a person who reminds us what it means to be Americans.
Sergeant Stephen Trujillo, a medic in the 2nd Ranger Battalion, 75th Infantry, was in the first helicopter to land at the compound held by Cuban forces in Grenada.
He saw three other helicopters crash.
Despite the imminent explosion of the burning aircraft, he never hesitated.
He ran across 25 yards of open terrain through enemy fire to rescue wounded soldiers.
He directed two other medics, administered first aid, and returned again and again to the crash site to carry his wounded friends to safety.
Sergeant Trujillo, you and your fellow service men and women not only saved innocent lives; you set a nation free.
You inspire us as a force for freedom, not for despotism; and, yes, for peace, not conquest.
God bless you.
And then there are unsung heroes: single parents, couples, church and civic volunteers.
Their hearts carry without complaint the pains of family and community problems.
They soothe our sorrow, heal our wounds, calm our fears, and share our joy.
A person like Father Ritter is always there.
His Covenant House programs in New York and Houston provide shelter and help to thousands of frightened and abused children each year.
The same is true of  Charles Carson.
Paralyzed in a plane crash, he still believed nothing is impossible.
Today in Minnesota, he works 80 hours a week without pay, helping pioneer the field of computer-controlled walking.
He has given hope to 500,000 paralyzed Americans that some day they may walk again.
How can we not believe in the greatness of America? How can we not do what is right and needed to preserve this last best hope of man on Earth? After all our struggles to restore America, to revive confidence in our country, hope for our future, after all our hard-won victories earned through the patience and courage of every citizen, we cannot, must not, and will not turn back.
We will finish our job.
How could we do less? We're Americans.
Carl Sandburg said, I see America not in the setting sun of a black night of despair.
I see America in the crimson light of a rising sun fresh from the burning, creative hand of God.
I see great days ahead for men and women of will and vision.
I have never felt more strongly that America's best days and democracy's best days lie ahead.
We're a powerful force for good.
With faith and courage, we can perform great deeds and take freedom's next step.
And we will.
We will carry on the tradition of a good and worthy people who have brought light where there was darkness, warmth where there was cold, medicine where there was disease, food where there was hunger, and peace where there was only bloodshed.
Let us be sure that those who come after will say of us in our time, that in our time we did everything that could be done.
We finished the race; we kept them free; we kept the faith.
Thank you very much.
God bless you, and God bless America.
Thank you very much.
In the business that I formerly was in, I would have to say this is a very difficult spot  to be introduced to you who have waited so patiently  following this wonderful talent that we have seen here.
And I should have gone on first, and then you should have followed    to close the show.
But thank you very much.
Nancy and I are most grateful to be with you here today, and I will take a chance and say, muintir na hEireann.
Did I get it right?  All right.
Well, it is difficult to express my appreciation to all of you.
I feel like I am about to drown everyone in a bath of nostalgia.
Of all the honors and gifts that have been afforded me as President, this visit is the one that I will cherish dearly.
You see, I did not know much about my family background-not because of a lack of interest, but because my father was orphaned before he was 6 years old.
And now thanks to you and the efforts of good people who have dug into the history of a poor immigrant family, I know at last whence I came.
And this has given my soul a new contentment.
And it is a joyous feeling.
It is like coming home after a long journey.
You see, my father, having been orphaned so young, he knew nothing of his roots also.
And, God rest his soul, I told the Father, I think he is here, too, today, and very pleased and happy to know that this is whence he came.
Robert Frost, a renowned American poet, once said, Home is the place where, when you have to go there, they have to take you in.
Well, it is been so long since my great-grandfather set out that you do not have to take me in.
So, I am certainly thankful for this wonderful homecoming today.
I cannot think of a place on the planet I would rather claim as my roots more than Ballyporeen, County Tipperary.
My great-grandfather left here in a time of stress, seeking to better himself and his family.
From what I am told, we were a poor family.
But my ancestors took with them a treasure, an indomitable spirit that was cultivated in the rich soil of this county.
And today I come back to you as a descendant of people who are buried here in paupers' graves.
Perhaps this is God's way of reminding us that we must always treat every individual, no matter what his or her station in life, with dignity and respect.
And who knows? Someday that person's child or grandchild might grow up to become the Prime Minister of Ireland or President of the United States.
Looking around town today, I was struck by the similarity between Ballyporeen and the small town in Illinois where I was born, Tampico.
Of course, there is one thing you have that we did not have in Tampico.
We did not have a Ronald Reagan Lounge in town.
Well, the spirit is the same, this spirit of warmth, friendliness, and openness in Tampico and Ballyporeen, and you make me feel very much at home.
What unites us is our shared heritage and the common values of our two peoples.
So many Irish men and women from every walk of life played a role in creating the dream of America.
One was Charles Thompson, Secretary of the Continental Congress, and who designed the first Great Seal of the United States.
I am certainly proud to be part of that great Irish American tradition.
From the time of our revolution when Irishmen filled the ranks of the Continental Army, to the building of the railroads, to the cultural contributions of individuals like the magnificent tenor John McCormack and the athletic achievements of the great heavyweight boxing champion John L.
Sullivan  all of them are part of a great legacy.
Speaking of sports, I had like to take this opportunity to congratulate an organization of which all Irish men and women can be proud, an organization that this year is celebrating its 100th anniversary: the Gaelic Athletic Association.
I understand it was formed a hundred years ago in Tipperary to foster the culture and games of traditional Ireland.
Some of you may be aware that I began my career as a sports announcer  a sports broadcaster, so I had an early appreciation for sporting competition.
Well, congratulations to all of you during this GAA centennial celebration.
I also understand that not too far from here is the home of the great Irish novelist Charles Joseph Kickham.
The Irish identity flourished in the United States.
Irish men and women proud of their heritage can be found in every walk of life.
I even have some of them in my Cabinet.
One of them traces his maternal roots to Mitchellstown, just down the road from Ballyporeen.
And he and I have almost the same name.
I am talking about Secretary of the Treasury Don Regan.
He spells it R-e-g-a-n.
We're all of the same clan, we are all cousins.
I tried to tell the Secretary one day that his branch of the family spelled it that way because they just could not handle as many letters as ours could.
And then I received a paper from Ireland that told me that the clan to which we belong, that in it those who said Regan and spelled it that way were the professional people and the educators, and only the common laborers called it Reagan.
So, meet a common laborer.
The first job I ever got  I was 14 years old, and they put a pick and a shovel in my hand and my father told me that that was fitting and becoming to one of our name.
The bond between our two countries runs deep and strong, and I am proud to be here in recognition and celebration of our ties that bind.
My roots in Ballyporeen, County Tipperary, are little different than millions of other Americans who find their roots in towns and counties all over the Isle of Erin.
I just feel exceptionally lucky to have this chance to visit you.
Last year a member of my staff came through town and recorded some messages from you.
It was quite a tape, and I was moved deeply by the sentiments that you expressed.
One of your townsmen sang me a bit of a tune about Scan Tracy, and a few lines stuck in my mind.
They went like this  not that I will sing  And I will never more roam, from my own native home, in Tipperary so far away.
Well, the Reagans roamed to America, but now we are back.
And Nancy and I thank you from the bottom of our hearts for coming out to welcome us, for the warmth of your welcome.
God bless you all.
In the business that I formerly was in, I would have to say this is a very difficult spot  to be introduced to you who have waited so patiently  following this wonderful talent that we have seen here.
And I should have gone on first, and then you should have followed  to close the show.
But thank you very much.
Nancy and I are most grateful to be with you here today, and I will take a chance and say, muintir na hEireann.
Did I get it right? All right.
Well, it is difficult to express my appreciation to all of you.
I feel like I am about to drown everyone in a bath of nostalgia.
Of all the honors and gifts that have been afforded me as President, this visit is the one that I will cherish dearly.
You see, I did not know much about my family background  not because of a lack of interest, but because my father was orphaned before he was 6 years old.
And now thanks to you and the efforts of good people who have dug into the history of a poor immigrant family, I know at last whence I came.
And this has given my soul a new contentment.
And it is a joyous feeling.
It is like coming home after a long journey.
You see, my father, having been orphaned so young, he knew nothing of his roots also.
And, God rest his soul, I told the Father, I think he is here, too, today, and very pleased and happy to know that this is whence he came.
Robert Frost, a renowned American poet, once said, Home is the place where, when you have to go there, they have to take you in.
Well, it is been so long since my great-grandfather set out that you do not have to take me in.
So, I am certainly thankful for this wonderful homecoming today.
I cannot think of a place on the planet I would rather claim as my roots more than Ballyporeen, County Tipperary.
My great-grandfather left here in a time of stress, seeking to better himself and his family.
From what I am told, we were a poor family.
But my ancestors took with them a treasure, an indomitable spirit that was cultivated in the rich soil of this county.
And today I come back to you as a descendant of people who are buried here in paupers' graves.
Perhaps this is God's way of reminding us that we must always treat every individual, no matter what his or her station in life, with dignity and respect.
And who knows? Someday that person's child or grandchild might grow up to become the Prime Minister of Ireland or President of the United States.
Looking around town today, I was struck by the similarity between Ballyporeen and the small town in Illinois where I was born, Tampico.
Of course, there is one thing you have that we did not have in Tampico.
We did not have a Ronald Reagan Lounge in town.
Well, the spirit is the same, this spirit of warmth, friendliness, and openness in Tampico and Ballyporeen, and you make me feel very much at home.
What unites us is our shared heritage and the common values of our two peoples.
So many Irish men and women from every walk of life played a role in creating the dream of America.
One was Charles Thompson, Secretary of the Continental Congress, and who designed the first Great Seal of the United States.
I am certainly proud to be part of that great Irish American tradition.
From the time of our revolution when Irishmen filled the ranks of the Continental Army, to the building of the railroads, to the cultural contributions of individuals like the magnificent tenor John McCormack and the athletic achievements of the great heavyweight boxing champion John L.
Sullivan  all of them are part of a great legacy.
Speaking of sports, I had like to take this opportunity to congratulate an organization of which all Irish men and women can be proud, an organization that this year is celebrating its 100th anniversary: the Gaelic Athletic Association.
I understand it was formed a hundred years ago in Tipperary to foster the culture and games of traditional Ireland.
Some of you may be aware that I began my career as a sports announcer  a sports broadcaster, so I had an early appreciation for sporting competition.
Well, congratulations to all of you during this GAA centennial celebration.
I also understand that not too far from here is the home of the great Irish novelist Charles Joseph Kickham.
The Irish identity flourished in the United States.
Irish men and women proud of their heritage can be found in every walk of life.
I even have some of them in my Cabinet.
One of them traces his maternal roots to Mitchellstown, just down the road from Ballyporeen.
And he and I have almost the same name.
I am talking about Secretary of the Treasury Don Regan.
He spells it R-e-g-a-n.
We're all of the same clan, we are all cousins.
I tried to tell the Secretary one day that his branch of the family spelled it that way because they just could not handle as many letters as ours could.
And then I received a paper from Ireland that told me that the clan to which we belong, that in it those who said Regan and spelled it that way were the professional people and the educators, and only the common laborers called it Reagan.
So, meet a common laborer.
The first job I ever got  I was 14 years old, and they put a pick and a shovel in my hand and my father told me that that was fitting and becoming to one of our name.
The bond between our two countries runs deep and strong, and I am proud to be here in recognition and celebration of our ties that bind.
My roots in Ballyporeen, County Tipperary, are little different than millions of other Americans who find their roots in towns and counties all over the Isle of Erin.
I just feel exceptionally lucky to have this chance to visit you.
Last year a member of my staff came through town and recorded some messages from you.
It was quite a tape, and I was moved deeply by the sentiments that you expressed.
One of your townsmen sang me a bit of a tune about Scan Tracy, and a few lines stuck in my mind.
They went like this  not that I will sing  And I will never more roam, from my own native home, in Tipperary so far away.
Well, the Reagans roamed to America, but now we are back.
And Nancy and I thank you from the bottom of our hearts for coming out to welcome us, for the warmth of your welcome.
God bless you all.
We're here to mark that day in history when the Allied armies joined in battle to reclaim this continent to liberty.
For 4 long years, much of Europe had been under a terrible shadow.
Free nations had fallen, Jews cried out in the camps, millions cried out for liberation.
Europe was enslaved, and the world prayed for its rescue.
Here in Normandy the rescue began.
Here the Allies stood and fought against tyranny in a giant undertaking unparalleled in human history.
We stand on a lonely, windswept point on the northern shore of France.
The air is soft, but 40 years ago at this moment, the air was dense with smoke and the cries of men, and the air was filled with the crack of rifle fire and the roar of cannon.
At dawn, on the morning of the 6th of June, 1944, 225 Rangers jumped off the British landing craft and ran to the bottom of these cliffs.
Their mission was one of the most difficult and daring of the invasion: to climb these sheer and desolate cliffs and take out the enemy guns.
The Allies had been told that some of the mightiest of these guns were here and they would be trained on the beaches to stop the Allied advance.
The Rangers looked up and saw the enemy soldiers  the edge of the cliffs shooting down at them with machineguns and throwing grenades.
And the American Rangers began to climb.
They shot rope ladders over the face of these cliffs and began to pull themselves up.
When one Ranger fell, another would take his place.
When one rope was cut, a Ranger would grab another and begin his climb again.
They climbed, shot back, and held their footing.
Soon, one by one, the Rangers pulled themselves over the top, and in seizing the firm land at the top of these cliffs, they began to seize back the continent of Europe.
Two hundred and twenty-five came here.
After 2 days of fighting, only 90 could still bear arms.
Behind me is a memorial that symbolizes the Ranger daggers that were thrust into the top of these cliffs.
And before me are the men who put them there.
These are the boys of Pointe du Hoc.
These are the men who took the cliffs.
These are the champions who helped free a continent.
These are the heroes who helped end a war.
Gentlemen, I look at you and I think of the words of Stephen Spender's poem.
You are men who in your lives fought for life.
and left the vivid air signed with your honor.
I think I know what you may be thinking right now  thinking we were just part of a bigger effort; everyone was brave that day.
Well, everyone was.
Do you remember the story of Bill Millin of the 51st Highlanders? Forty years ago today, British troops were pinned down near a bridge, waiting desperately for help.
Suddenly, they heard the sound of bagpipes, and some thought they were dreaming.
Well, they were not.
They looked up and saw Bill Millin with his bagpipes, leading the reinforcements and ignoring the smack of the bullets into the ground around him.
Lord Lovat was with him  Lord Lovat of Scotland, who calmly announced when he got to the bridge,   Sorry I am a few minutes late, as if he had been delayed by a traffic jam, when in truth he had just come from the bloody fighting on Sword Beach, which he and his men had just taken.
There was the impossible valor of the Poles who threw themselves between the enemy and the rest of Europe as the invasion took hold, and the unsurpassed courage of the Canadians who had already seen the horrors of war on this coast.
They knew what awaited them there, but they would not be deterred.
And once they hit Juno Beach, they never looked back.
All of these men were part of a rollcall of honor with names that spoke of a pride as bright as the colors they bore: the Royal Winnipeg Rifles, Poland's 24th Lancers, the Royal Scots Fusiliers, the Screaming Eagles, the Yeomen of England's armored divisions, the forces of Free France, the Coast Guard's Matchbox Fleet and you, the American Rangers.
Forty summers have passed since the battle that you fought here.
You were young the day you took these cliffs; some of you were hardly more than boys, with the deepest joys of life before you.
Yet, you risked everything here.
Why? Why did you do it? What impelled you to put aside the instinct for self-preservation and risk your lives to take these cliffs? What inspired all the men of the armies that met here? We look at you, and somehow we know the answer.
It was faith and belief; it was loyalty and love.
The men of Normandy had faith that what they were doing was right, faith that they fought for all humanity, faith that a just God would grant them mercy on this beachhead or on the next.
It was the deep knowledge  and pray God we have not lost it  that there is a profound, moral difference between the use of force for liberation and the use of force for conquest.
You were here to liberate, not to conquer, and so you and those others did not doubt your cause.
And you were right not to doubt.
You all knew that some things are worth dying for.
One's country is worth dying for, and democracy is worth dying for, because it is the most deeply honorable form of government ever devised by man.
All of you loved liberty.
All of you were willing to fight tyranny, and you knew the people of your countries were behind you.
The Americans who fought here that morning knew word of the invasion was spreading through the darkness back home.
They fought  or felt in their hearts, though they could not know in fact, that in Georgia they were filling the churches at 4 a.
m.
, in Kansas they were kneeling on their porches and praying, and in Philadelphia they were ringing the Liberty Bell.
Something else helped the men of D-day: their rockhard belief that Providence would have a great hand in the events that would unfold here; that God was an ally in this great cause.
And so, the night before the invasion, when Colonel Wolverton asked his parachute troops to kneel with him in prayer he told them: Do not bow your heads, but look up so you can see God and ask Hisblessing in what we are about to do.
Also that night, General Matthew Ridgway on his cot, listening in the darkness for the promise God made to Joshua: I will not fail thee nor forsake thee.
These are the things that impelled them; these are the things that shaped the unity of the Allies.
When the war was over, there were lives to be rebuilt and governments to be returned to the people.
There were nations to be reborn.
Above all, there was a new peace to be assured.
These were huge and daunting tasks.
But the Allies summoned strength from the faith, belief, loyalty, and love of those who fell here.
They rebuilt a new Europe together.
There was first a great reconciliation among those who had been enemies, all of whom had suffered so greatly.
The United States did its part, creating the Marshall plan to help rebuild our allies and our former enemies.
The Marshall plan led to the Atlantic alliance  a great alliance that serves to this day as our shield for freedom, for prosperity, and for peace.
In spite of our great efforts and successes, not all that followed the end of the war was happy or planned.
Some liberated countries were lost.
The great sadness of this loss echoes down to our own time in the streets of Warsaw, Prague, and East Berlin.
Soviet troops that came to the center of this continent did not leave when peace came.
They're still there, uninvited, unwanted, unyielding, almost 40 years after the war.
Because of this, allied forces still stand on this continent.
Today, as 40 years ago, our armies are here for only one purpose  to protect and defend democracy.
The only territories we hold are memorials like this one and graveyards where our heroes rest.
We in America have learned bitter lessons from two World Wars: It is better to be here ready to protect the peace, than to take blind shelter across the sea, rushing to respond only after freedom is lost.
We've learned that isolationism never was and never will be an acceptable response to tyrannical governments with an expansionist intent.
But we try always to be prepared for peace; prepared to deter aggression; prepared to negotiate the reduction of arms; and, yes, prepared to reach out again in the spirit of reconciliation.
In truth, there is no reconciliation we would welcome more than a reconciliation with the Soviet Union, so, together, we can lessen the risks of war, now and forever.
It's fitting to remember here the great losses also suffered by the Russian people during World War II: 20 million perished, a terrible price that testifies to all the world the necessity of ending war.
I tell you from my heart that we in the United States do not want war.
We want to wipe from the face of the Earth the terrible weapons that man now has in his hands.
And I tell you, we are ready to seize that beachhead.
We look for some sign from the Soviet Union that they are willing to move forward, that they share our desire and love for peace, and that they will give up the ways of conquest.
There must be a changing there that will allow us to turn our hope into action.
We will pray forever that some day that changing will come.
But for now, particularly today, it is good and fitting to renew our commitment to each other, to our freedom, and to the alliance that protects it.
We are bound today by what bound us 40 years ago, the same loyalties, traditions, and beliefs.
We're bound by reality.
The strength of America's allies is vital to the United States, and the American security guarantee is essential to the continued freedom of Europe's democracies.
We were with you then; we are with you now.
Your hopes are our hopes, and your destiny is our destiny.
Here, in this place where the West held together, let us make a vow to our dead.
Let us show them by our actions that we understand what they died for.
Let our actions say to them the words for which Matthew Ridgway listened: I will not fail thee nor forsake thee.
Strengthened by their courage, heartened by their value , and borne by their memory, let us continue to stand for the ideals for which they lived and died.
Thank you very much, and God bless you all.
Chairman,  Vice President, delegates to this convention, and fellow citizens: In 75 days, I hope we enjoy a victory that is the size of the heart of Texas.
Nancy and I extend our deep thanks to the Lone Star State and the Big D  the city of Dallas  for all their warmth and hospitality.
Four years ago I did not know precisely every duty of this office, and not too long ago, I learned about some new ones from the first graders of Corpus Christi School in Chambersburg, Pennsylvania.
Little Leah Kline was asked by her teacher to describe my duties.
She said: The President goes to meetings.
He helps the animals.
The President gets frustrated.
He talks to other Presidents.
How does wisdom begin at such an early age?Tonight, with a full heart and deep gratitude for your trust, I accept your nomination for the Presidency of the United States.
I will campaign on behalf of the principles of our party which lift America confidently into the future.
America is presented with the clearest political choice of half a century.
The distinction between our two parties and the different philosophy of our political opponents are at the heart of this campaign and America's future.
I have been campaigning long enough to know that a political party and its leadership cannot change their colors in four days.
We will not, and no matter how hard they tried, our opponents did not in San Francisco.
We did not discover our values in a poll taken a week before the convention.
And we did not set a weathervane on top of the Golden Gate Bridge before we started talking about the American family.
The choices this year are not just between two different personalities or between two political parties.
They're between two different visions of the future, two fundamentally different ways of governing  their government of pessimism, fear, and limits, or ours of hope, confidence, and growth.
Their government sees people only as members of groups; ours serves all the people of America as individuals.
Theirs lives in the past, seeking to apply the old and failed policies to an era that has passed them by.
Ours learns from the past and strives to change by boldly charting a new course for the future.
Theirs lives by promises, the bigger, the better.
We offer proven, workable answers.
Our opponents began this campaign hoping that America has a poor memory.
Well, let us take them on a little stroll down memory lane.
Let's remind them of how a 4.
8-percent inflation rate in 1976 became back-to-back years of double-digit inflation  the worst since World War I  punishing the poor and the elderly, young couples striving to start their new lives, and working people struggling to make ends meet.
Inflation was not some plague borne on the wind; it was a deliberate part of their official economic policy, needed, they said, to maintain prosperity.
They did not tell us that with it would come the highest interest rates since the Civil War.
As average monthly mortgage payments more than doubled, home building nearly ground to a halt; tens of thousands of carpenters and others were thrown out of work.
And who controlled both Houses of the Congress and the executive branch at that time? Not us, not us.
Campaigning across America in 1980, we saw evidence everywhere of industrial decline.
And in rural America, farmers' costs were driven up by inflation.
They were devastated by a wrongheaded grain embargo and were forced to borrow money at exorbitant interest rates just to get by.
And many of them did not get by.
Farmers have to fight insects, weather, and the marketplace; they should not have to fight their own government.
The high interest rates of 1980 were not talked about in San Francisco.
But how about taxes? They were talked about in San Francisco.
Will Rogers once said he never met a man he did not like.
Well, if I could paraphrase Will, our friends in the other party have never met a tax they did not like or hike.
Under their policies, tax rates have gone up three times as much for families with children as they have for everyone else over these past three decades.
In just the five years before we came into office, taxes roughly doubled.
Some who spoke so loudly in San Francisco of fairness were among those who brought about the biggest single, individual tax increase in our history in 1977, calling for a series of increases in the Social Security payroll tax and in the amount of pay subject to that tax.
The bill they passed called for two additional increases between now and 1990, increases that bear down hardest on those at the lower income levels.
The Census Bureau confirms that, because of the tax laws we inherited, the number of households at or below the poverty level paying federal income tax more than doubled between 1980 and 1982.
Well, they received some relief in 1983, when our across-the-board tax cut was fully in place.
And they will get more help when indexing goes into effect this January.
Our opponents have repeatedly advocated eliminating indexing.
Would that really hurt the rich? No, because the rich are already in the top brackets.
But those working men and women who depend on a cost-of-living adjustment just to keep abreast of inflation would find themselves pushed into higher tax brackets and would not even be able to keep even with inflation because they had be paying a higher income tax.
That's bracket creep; and our opponents are for it, and we are against it.
It's up to us to see that all our fellow citizens understand that confiscatory taxes, costly social experiments, and economic tinkering were not just the policies of a single administration.
For the 26 years prior to January of 1981, the opposition party controlled both Houses of Congress.
Every spending bill and every tax for more than a quarter of a century has been of their doing.
About a decade ago, they said federal spending was out of control, so they passed a budget control act and, in the next five years, ran up deficits of $260 billion.
Some control.
In 1981 we gained control of the Senate and the executive branch.
With the help of some concerned Democrats in the House we started a policy of tightening the federal budget instead of the family budget.
A task force chaired by Vice President George Bush  the finest Vice President this country has ever had  it eliminated unnecessary regulations that had been strangling business and industry.
And while we have our friends down memory lane, maybe they had like to recall a gimmick they designed for their 1976 campaign.
As President Ford told us the night before last, adding the unemployment and inflation rates, they got what they called a misery index.
In '76 it came to 12 1/2 percent.
They declared the incumbent had no right to seek reelection with that kind of a misery index.
Well, four years ago, in the 1980 election, they did not mention the misery index, possibly because it was then over 20 percent.
And do you know something? They will not mention it in this election either.
It's down to 11.
6 and dropping.
By nearly every measure, the position of poor Americans worsened under the leadership of our opponents.
Teenage drug use, out-of-wedlock births, and crime increased dramatically.
Urban neighborhoods and schools deteriorated.
Those whom government intended to help discovered a cycle of dependency that could not be broken.
Government became a drug, providing temporary relief, but addiction as well.
And let us get some facts on the table that our opponents do not want to hear.
The biggest annual increase in poverty took place between 1978 and 1981  over 9 percent each year, in the first two years of our administration.
Well, I should  pardon me  I did not put a period in there.
In the first two years of our administration, that annual increase fell to 5.
3 percent.
And 1983 was the first year since 1978 that there was no appreciable increase in poverty at all.
Pouring hundreds of billions of dollars into programs in order to make people worse off was irrational and unfair.
It was time we ended this reliance on the government process and renewed our faith in the human process.
In 1980 the people decided with us that the economic crisis was not caused by the fact that they lived too well.
Government lived too well.
It was time for tax increases to be an act of last resort, not of first resort.
The people told the liberal leadership in Washington, Try shrinking the size of government before you shrink the size of our paychecks.
Our government was also in serious trouble abroad.
We had aircraft that could not fly and ships that could not leave port.
Many of our military were on food stamps because of meager earnings, and reenlistments were down.
Ammunition was low, and spare parts were in short supply.
Many of our allies mistrusted us.
In the four years before we took office, country after country fell under the Soviet yoke.
Since January 20, 1981, not 1 inch of soil has fallen to the Communists.
All right.
But worst of all, Americans were losing the confidence and optimism about the future that has made us unique in the world.
Parents were beginning to doubt that their children would have the better life that has been the dream of every American generation.
We can all be proud that pessimism is ended.
America is coming back and is more confident than ever about the future.
Tonight, we thank the citizens of the United States whose faith and unwillingness to give up on themselves or this country saved us all.
Together, we began the task of controlling the size and activities of the government by reducing the growth of its spending while passing a tax program to provide incentives to increase productivity for both workers and industry.
Today, a working family earning $25,000 has about $2,900 more in purchasing power than if tax and inflation rates were still at the 1980 level.
Today, of all the major industrial nations of the world, America has the strongest economic growth; one of the lowest inflation rates; the fastest rate of job creation  six and a half million jobs in the last year and a half  a record 600,000 business incorporations in 1983; and the largest increase in real, after-tax personal income since World War II We're enjoying the highest level of business investment in history, and America has renewed its leadership in developing the vast new opportunities in science and high technology.
America is on the move again and expanding toward new eras of opportunity for everyone.
Now, we are accused of having a secret.
Well, if we have, it is that we are going to keep the mighty engine of this nation revved up.
And that means a future of sustained economic growth without inflation that is going to create for our children and grandchildren a prosperity that finally will last.
Today our troops have newer and better equipment; their morale is higher.
The better armed they are, the less likely it is they will have to use that equipment.
But if, heaven forbid, they are ever called upon to defend this nation, nothing would be more immoral than asking them to do so with weapons inferior to those of any possible opponent.
We have also begun to repair our valuable alliances, especially our historic NATO alliance.
Extensive discussions in Asia have enabled us to start a new round of diplomatic progress there.
In the Middle East, it remains difficult to bring an end to historic conflicts, but we are not discouraged.
And we shall always maintain our pledge never to sell out one of our closest friends, the State of Israel.
Closer to home, there remains a struggle for survival for free Latin American States, allies of ours.
They valiantly struggle to prevent Communist takeovers fueled massively by the Soviet Union and Cuba.
Our policy is simple: We are not going to betray our friends, reward the enemies of freedom, or permit fear and retreat to become American policies  especially in this hemisphere.
None of the four wars in my lifetime came about because we were too strong.
It's weakness that invites adventurous adversaries to make mistaken judgments.
America is the most peaceful, least warlike nation in modern history.
We are not the cause of all the ills of the world.
We're a patient and generous people.
But for the sake of our freedom and that of others, we cannot permit our reserve to be confused with a lack of resolve.
Ten months ago, we displayed this resolve in a mission to rescue American students on the imprisoned island of Grenada.
Democratic candidates have suggested that this could be likened to the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan  the crushing of human rights in Poland or the genocide in Cambodia.
Could you imagine Harry Truman, John Kennedy, Hubert Humphrey, or Scoop Jackson making such a shocking comparison?Nineteen of our fine young men lost their lives on Grenada, and to even remotely compare their sacrifice to the murderous actions taking place in Afghanistan is unconscionable.
There are some obvious and important differences.
First, we were invited in by six East Caribbean States.
Does anyone seriously believe the people of Eastern Europe or Afghanistan invited the Russians?Second, there are hundreds of thousands of Soviets occupying captive nations across the world.
Today, our combat troops have come home.
Our students are safe, and freedom is what we left behind in Grenada.
There are some who have forgotten why we have a military.
It's not to promote war; it is to be prepared for peace.
There's a sign over the entrance to Fairchild Air Force Base in Washington State, and that sign says it all: Peace is our profession.
Our next administration   All right.
I heard you.
And that administration will be committed to completing the unfinished agenda that we have placed before the Congress and the nation.
It is an agenda which calls upon the national Democratic leadership to cease its obstructionist ways.
We've heard a lot about deficits this year from those on the other side of the aisle.
Well, they should be experts on budget deficits.
They've spent most of their political careers creating deficits.
For 42 of the last 50 years, they have controlled both Houses of the Congress.
And for almost all of those 50 years, deficit spending has been their deliberate policy.
Now, however, they call for an end to deficits.
They call them ours.
Yet, at the same time, the leadership of their party resists our every effort to bring federal spending under control.
For three years straight, they have prevented us from adopting a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution.
We will continue to fight for that amendment, mandating that government spend no more than government takes in.
And we will fight, as the Vice President told you, for the right of a President to veto items in appropriations bills without having to veto the entire bill.
There is no better way than the line-item veto, now used by Governors in 43 states to cut out waste in government.
I know.
As Governor of California, I successfully made such vetos over 900 times.
Now, their candidate, it would appear, has only recently found deficits alarming.
Nearly 10 years ago he insisted that a $52 billion deficit should be allowed to get much bigger in order to lower unemployment, and he said that sometimes we need a deficit in order to stimulate the economy.
As a Senator, he voted to override President Ford's veto of billions of dollars in spending bills and then voted no on a proposal to cut the 1976 deficit in half.
Was anyone surprised by his pledge to raise your taxes next year if given the chance?In the Senate, he voted time and again for new taxes, including a 10-percent income tax surcharge, higher taxes on certain consumer items.
He also voted against cutting the excise tax on automobiles.
And he was part and parcel of that biggest single, individual tax increase in history  the Social Security payroll tax of 1977.
It tripled the maximum tax and still did not make the system solvent.
If our opponents were as vigorous in supporting our voluntary prayer amendment as they are in raising taxes, maybe we could get the Lord back in the schoolrooms and drugs and violence out.
Something else illustrates the nature of the choice Americans must make.
While we have been hearing a lot of tough talk on crime from our opponents, the House Democratic leadership continues to block a critical anticrime bill that passed the Republican Senate by a 91-to-1 vote.
Their burial of this bill means that you and your families will have to wait for even safer homes and streets.
There's no longer any good reason to hold back passage of tuition tax credit legislation.
Millions of average parents pay their full share of taxes to support public schools while choosing to send their children to parochial or other independent schools.
Doesn't fairness dictate that they should have some help in carrying a double burden?When we talk of the plight of our cities, what would help more than our enterprise zones bill, which provides tax incentives for private industry to help rebuild and restore decayed areas in 75 sites all across America? If they really wanted a future of boundless new opportunities for our citizens, why have they buried enterprise zones over the years in committee?Our opponents are openly committed to increasing our tax burden.
We are committed to stopping them, and we will.
They call their policy the new realism, but their new realism is just the old liberalism.
They will place higher and higher taxes on small businesses, on family farms, and on other working families so that government may once again grow at the people's expense.
You know, we could say they spend money like drunken sailors, but that would be unfair to drunken sailors    All right.
I agree.
I was going to say, it would be unfair, because the sailors are spending their own money.
Our tax policies are and will remain prowork, progrowth, and profamily.
We intend to simplify the entire tax system  to make taxes more fair, easier to understand, and, most important, to bring the tax rates of every American further down, not up.
Now, if we bring them down far enough, growth will continue strong; the underground economy will shrink; the world will beat a path to our door; and no one will be able to hold America back; and the future will be ours.
All right.
Another part of our future, the greatest challenge of all, is to reduce the risk of nuclear war by reducing the levels of nuclear arms.
I have addressed parliaments, have spoken to parliaments in Europe and Asia during these last three and a half years, declaring that a nuclear war cannot be won and must never be fought.
And those words, in those assemblies, were greeted with spontaneous applause.
There are only two nations who by their agreement can rid the world of those doomsday weapons  the United States of America and the Soviet Union.
For the sake of our children and the safety of this Earth, we ask the Soviets  who have walked out of our negotiations  to join us in reducing and, yes, ridding the Earth of this awful threat.
When we leave this hall tonight, we begin to place those clear choices before our fellow citizens.
We must not let them be confused by those who still think that GNP stands for gross national promises.
But after the debates, the position papers, the speeches, the conventions, the television commercials, primaries, caucuses, and slogans  after all this, is there really any doubt at all about what will happen if we let them win this November?Is there any doubt that they will raise our taxes?That they will send inflation into orbit again?That they will make government bigger then ever?And deficits even worse?Raise unemployment?Cut back our defense preparedness?Raise interest rates?Make unilaterial and unwise concessions to the Soviet Union?And they will do all that in the name of compassion.
It's what they have done to America in the past.
But if we do our job right, they will not be able to do it again.
It's getting late.
All right.
In 1980 we asked the people of America, Are you better off than you were four years ago? Well, the people answered then by choosing us to bring about a change.
We have every reason now, four years later, to ask that same question again, for we have made a change.
The American people joined us and helped us.
Let us ask for their help again to renew the mandate of 1980, to move us further forward on the road we presently travel, the road of common sense, of people in control of their own destiny; the road leading to prosperity and economic expansion in a world at peace.
As we ask for their help, we should also answer the central question of public service: Why are we here? What do we believe in? Well for one thing, we are here to see that government continues to serve the people and not the other way around.
Yes, government should do all that is necessary, but only that which is necessary.
We do not lump people by groups or special interests.
And let me add, in the party of Lincoln, there is no room for intolerance and not even a small corner for anti-Semitism or bigotry of any kind.
Many people are welcome in our house, but not the bigots.
We believe in the uniqueness of each individual.
We believe in the sacredness of human life.
For some time now we have all fallen into a pattern of describing our choice as left or right.
It's become standard rhetoric in discussions of political philosophy.
But is that really an accurate description of the choice before us?Go back a few years to the origin of the terms and see where left or right would take us if we continued far enough in either direction.
Stalin.
Hitler.
One would take us to Communist totalitarianism; the other to the totalitarianism of Hitler.
Isn't our choice really not one of left or right, but of up or down? Down through the welfare state to statism, to more and more government largesse accompanied always by more government authority, less individual liberty and, ultimately, totalitarianism, always advanced as for our own good.
The alternative is the dream conceived by our Founding Fathers, up to the ultimate in individual freedom consistent with an orderly society.
We do not celebrate dependence day on the Fourth of July.
We celebrate Independence Day.
We celebrate the right of each individual to be recognized as unique, possessed of dignity and the sacred right to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.
At the same time, with our independence goes a generosity of spirit more evident here than in almost any other part of the world.
Recognizing the equality of all men and women, we are willing and able to lift the weak, cradle those who hurt, and nurture the bonds that tie us together as one nation under God.
Finally, we are here to shield our liberties, not just for now or for a few years but forever.
Could I share a personal thought with you tonight, because tonight's kind of special to me.
It's the last time, of course, that I will address you under these same circumstances.
I hope you will invite me back to future conventions.
Nancy and I will be forever grateful for the honor you have done us, for the opportunity to serve, and for your friendship and trust.
I began political life as a Democrat, casting my first vote in 1932 for Franklin Delano Roosevelt.
That year, the Democrats called for a 25-percent reduction in the cost of government by abolishing useless commissions and offices and consolidating departments and bureaus, and giving more authority to state governments.
As the years went by and those promises were forgotten, did I leave the Democratic Party, or did the leadership of that party leave not just me but millions of patriotic Democrats who believed in the principles and philosophy of that platform?One of the first to declare this was a former Democratic nominee for President  Al Smith, the Happy Warrior, who went before the nation in 1936 to say, on television  or on radio that he could no longer follow his party's leadership and that he was taking a walk.
As Democratic leaders have taken their party further and further away from its first principles, it is no surprise that so many responsible Democrats feel that our platform is closer to their views, and we welcome them to our side.
Four years ago we raised a banner of bold colors  no pale pastels.
We proclaimed a dream of an America that would be a shining city on a hill.
We promised that we had reduce the growth of the federal government, and we have.
We said we intended to reduce interest rates and inflation, and we have.
We said we would reduce taxes to provide incentives for individuals and business to get our economy moving again, and we have.
We said there must be jobs with a future for our people, not government make-work programs, and, in the last 19 months, as I have said, six ad a half million new jobs in the private sector have been created.
We said we would once again be respected throughout the world, and we are.
We said we would restore our ability to protect our freedom on land, sea, and in the air, and we have.
We bring to the American citizens in this election year a record of accomplishment and the promise of continuation.
We came together in a national crusade to make America great again, and to make a new beginning.
Well, now it is all coming together.
With our beloved nation at peace, we are in the midst of a springtime of hope for America.
Greatness lies ahead of us.
Holding the Olympic games here in the United States began defining the promise of this season.
All through the spring and summer, we marveled at the journey of the Olympic torch as it made its passage east to west.
Over 9,000 miles, by some 4,000 runners, that flame crossed a portrait of our nation.
From our Gotham City, New York, to the Cradle of Liberty, Boston, across the Appalachian springtime, to the City of the Big Shoulders, Chicago.
Moving south toward Atlanta, over to  Louis, past its Gateway Arch, across wheatfields into the stark beauty of the Southwest and then up into the still, snowcapped Rockies.
And, after circling the greening Northwest, it came down to California, across the Golden Gate and finally into Los Angeles.
And all along the way, that torch became a celebration of America.
And we all became participants in the celebration.
Each new story was typical of this land of ours.
There was Ansel Stubbs, a youngster of 99, who passed the torch in Kansas to 4-year-old Katie Johnson.
In Pineville, Kentucky, it came at 1 a.
m.
, so hundreds of people lined the streets with candles.
At Tupelo, Mississippi, at 7 a.
m.
on a Sunday morning, a robed church choir sang God Bless America as the torch went by.
That torch went through the Cumberland Gap, past the Martin Luther King, , Memorial, down the Santa Fe Trail, and alongside Billy the Kid's grave.
In Richardson, Texas, it was carried by a 14-year-old boy in a special wheelchair.
In West Virginia the runner came across a line of deaf children and let each one pass the torch for a few feet, and at the end these youngsters' hands talked excitedly in their sign language.
Crowds spontaneously began singing America the Beautiful or The Battle Hymn of the Republic.
And then, in San Francisco a Vietnamese immigrant, his little son held on his shoulders, dodged photographers and policemen to cheer a 19-year-old black man pushing an 88-year-old white woman in a wheelchair as she carried the torch.
My friends, that is America.
We cheered in Los Angeles as the flame was carried in and the giant Olympic torch burst into a billowing fire in front of the teams, the youth of 140 nations assembled on the floor of the Coliseum.
And in that moment, maybe you were struck as I was with the uniqueness of what was taking place before a hundred thousand people in the stadium, most of them citizens of our country, and over a billion worldwide watching on television.
There were athletes representing 140 countries here to compete in the one country in all the world whose people carry the bloodlines of all those 140 countries and more.
Only in the United States is there such a rich mixture of races, creeds, and nationalities  only in our melting pot.
And that brings to mind another torch, the one that greeted so many of our parents and grandparents.
Just this past Fourth of July, the torch atop the Statue of Liberty was hoisted down for replacement.
We can be forgiven for thinking that maybe it was just worn out from lighting the way to freedom for 17 million new Americans.
So, now we will put up a new one.
The poet called Miss Liberty's torch the lamp beside the golden door.
Well, that was the entrance to America, and it still is.
And now you really know why we are here tonight.
The glistening hope of that lamp is still ours.
Every promise, every opportunity is still golden in this land.
And through that golden door our children can walk into tomorrow with the knowledge that no one can be denied the promise that is America.
Her heart is full; her door is still golden, her future bright.
She has arms big enough to comfort and strong enough to support, for the strength in her arms is the strength of her people.
She will carry on in the '80s unafraid, unashamed, and unsurpassed.
In this springtime of hope, some lights seem eternal; America's is.
Thank you, God bless you, and God bless America.
> I have a plan  not a secret plan.
As a matter of fact, it is the economic recovery program that we presented when I took office in 1981.
It is true that earlier, working with some very prominent economists, I had come up, during the campaign, with an economic program that I thought could rectify the great problems confronting us  the double-digit inflation, the high tax rates that I think were hurting the economy, the stagflation that we were undergoing.
Before even the election day, something that none of those economists had even predicted had happened, that the economy was so worsened that I was openly saying that what we had thought on the basis of our plan could have brought a balanced budget  no, that was no longer possible.
So, the plan that we have had and that we are following is a plan that is based on growth in the economy, recovery without inflation, and reducing the share that the Government is taking from the gross national product, which has become a drag on the economy.
Already, we have a recovery that has been going on for about 21 months to the point that we can now call it an expansion.
Under that, this year, we have seen a $21 billion reduction in the deficit from last year, based mainly on the increased revenues the Government is getting without raising tax rates.
Our tax cut, we think, was very instrumental in bringing about this economic recovery.
We have reduced inflation to about a third of what it was.
The interest rates have come down about 9 or 10 points and, we think, must come down further.
In the last 21 months, more than 6 million people have gotten jobs  there have been created new jobs for those people to where there are now 105 million civilians working, where there were only 99 million before; 107, if you count the military.
So, we believe that as we continue to reduce the level of government spending  the increase, rate of increase in government spending, which has come down from 17 to 6 percent, and, at the same time, as the growth in the economy increases the revenues the Government gets, without raising taxes, those two lines will meet.
And when they meet, that is a balanced budget.
The deficit is the result of excessive government spending.
I do not, very frankly, take seriously the Congressional Budget Office projections, because they have been wrong on virtually all of them, including the fact that our recovery was not going to take place to begin with.
But it has taken place.
But, as I said, we have the rate of increase in government spending down to 6 percent.
If the rate of increase in government spending can be held at 5 percent  we are not far from there  by 1989 that would have reduced the budget deficits down to a $30 or $40 billion level.
At the same time, if we can have a 4-percent recovery continue through that same period of time, that will mean  without an increase in tax rates  that will mean $400 billion more in government revenues.
And so, I think that the lines can meet.
Actually, in constant dollars, in the domestic side of the budget, there has been no spending increase in the 4 years that we have been here.
that people need.
These people depend upon all of us for the little security that they have, and I am not going to do it that way.
The rate of defense spending increase can be slowed.
Certainly we can find a coffeepot that costs something less than $7,000.
And there are other ways of squeezing this budget without constantly picking on our senior citizens and the most vulnerable in American life.
And that is why the Congress, including the Republicans, have not gone along with the President's recommendations.
> Yes.
I do not believe that  Mondale has a plan for balancing the budget; he has a plan for raising taxes.
And, as a matter of fact, the biggest single tax increase in our nation's history took place 1977.
And for the 5 years previous to our taking office, taxes doubled in the United States, and the budgets increased $318 billion.
So, there is no ratio between taxing and balancing a budget.
Whether you borrow the money or whether you simply tax it away from the people, you are taking the same amount of money out of the private sector, unless and until you bring down government's share of what it is taking.
With regard to Social Security, I hope there'll be more time than just this minute to mention that, but I will say this: A President should never say never.
But I am going to violate that rule and say never.
I will never stand for a reduction of the Social Security benefits to the people that are now getting them.
Well, whether he does or not, let me suggest my own idea about the leadership factor, since you have asked it.
And, incidentally, I might say that with regard to the 25-percent cut in Social Security  before I get to the answer to your question  the only 25-percent cut that I know of was accompanying that huge 1977 tax increase, was a cut of 25 percent in the benefits for every American who was born after 1916.
Now, leadership.
First of all, I think you must have some principles you believe in.
In mine, I happen to believe in the people and believe that the people are supposed to be dominant in our society  that they, not government, are to have control of their own affairs to the greatest extent possible, with an orderly society.
Now, having that, I think also that in leadership  well, I believe that you find people, positions such as I am in who have the talent and ability to do the things that are needed in the various departments of government.
I do not believe that a leader should be spending his time in the Oval Office deciding who is going to play tennis on the White House court.
And you let those people go with the guidelines of overall policy, not looking over their shoulder and nitpicking the manner in which they go at the job.
You are ultimately responsible, however, for that job.
But I also believe something else about that.
I believe that  and when I became Governor of California, I started this, and I continue it in this office  that any issue that comes before me, I have instructed Cabinet members and staff they are not to bring up any of the political ramifications that might surround the issue.
I do not want to hear them.
I want to hear only arguments as to whether it is good or bad for the people  is it morally right? And on that basis and that basis alone, we make a decision on every issue.
Now, with regard to my feeling about why I thought that his record bespoke his possible taking us back to the same things that we knew under the previous administration, his record is that he spoke in praise of deficits several times, said they were not to be abhorred  that, as a matter of fact, he at one time said he wished the deficit could be doubled, because they stimulate the economy and helped reduce unemployment.
Our policy was not to cut subsidies.
We have believed in partnership, and that was an example of a partnership between, not only local government and the Federal Government but also between the private sector that built that particular structure.
And this is what we have been trying to do, is involve the Federal Government in such partnerships.
We are today subsidizing housing for more than 10 million people, and we are going to continue along that line.
We have no thought of throwing people out into the snow, whether because of age or need.
We have preserved the safety net for the people with true need in this country, and it has been pure demagoguery that we have in some way shut off all the charitable programs or many of them for the people who have real need.
The safety net is there, and we are taking care of more people than has ever been taken care of before by any administration in this country.
The fact of it is: The President's budget sought to cut Social Security by 25 percent.
It's not an opinion; it is a fact.
And when the President was asked the other day, What do you want to cut in the budget? he said, Cut those things I asked for but did not get.
That's Social Security and Medicare.
The second fact is that the housing unit for senior citizens that the President dedicated in Buffalo was only made possible through a federal assistance program for senior citizens that the President's budget sought to terminate.
So, if he had had his way, there would not have been any housing project there at all.
This administration has taken a meat cleaver out, in terms of Federal-assisted housing, and the record is there.
We have to see the facts before we can draw conclusions.
> Well, let me just respond with regard to Social Security.
When we took office, we discovered that the program that the Carter-Mondale administration had said would solve the fiscal problems of Social Security for the next 50 years would not solve them for 5.
Social Security was due to go bankrupt before 1983.
Any proposals that I made at that time were at the request of the chairman, a Democrat, of one of the leading committees, who said we have to do something before the program goes broke and the checks bounce.
And so, we made a proposal.
And then in 1982, they used that proposal in a demagogic fashion for the 1982 campaign.
And 3 days after the election in 1982, they came to us and said, Social Security, we know, is broke.
Indeed, we had to borrow $17 billion to pay the checks.
And then I asked for a bipartisan commission, which I had asked for from the beginning, to sit down and work out a solution.
And so, the whole matter of what to do with Social Security has been resolved by bipartisan legislation, and it is on a sound basis now for as far as you can see into the next century.
Well, I was raised to have a faith and a belief and have been a member of a church since I was a small boy.
In our particular church, we did not use that term, born again, so I do not know whether I would fit that  that particular term.
But I have  thanks to my mother, God rest her soul  the firmest possible belief and faith in God.
And I do not believe  I believe, I should say, as Lincoln once said, that I could not  I would be the most stupid man in the world if I thought I could confront the duties of the office I hold if I could not turn to someone who was stronger and greater than all others.
And I do resort to prayer.
At the same time, however, I have not believed that prayer should be introduced into an election or be a part of a political campaign  or religion a part of that campaign.
As a matter of fact, I think religion became a part of this campaign when  Mondale's running mate said I was not a good Christian.
So, it does play a part in my life.
I have no hesitancy in saying so.
And, as I say, I do not believe that I could carry on unless I had a belief in a higher authority and a belief that prayers are answered.
The answer to your question is very simple about why I do not go to church.
I have gone to church regularly all my life, and I started to here in Washington.
And now, in the position I hold and in the world in which we live, where Embassies do get blown up in Beirut  we are supposed to talk about that on the debate the 21st, I understand  but I pose a threat to several hundred people if I go to church.
I know the threats that are made against me.
We all know the possibility of terrorism.
We have seen the barricades that have had to be built around the White House.
And, therefore, I do not feel  and my minister knows this and supports me in this position  I do not feel that I have a right to go to church, knowing that my being there could cause something of the kind that we have seen in other places, in Beirut, for example.
And I miss going to church, but I think the Lord understands.
may I ask the audience please to refrain from applause.
Fred, your second question.
>  what I object to  what I object to is someone seeking to use his faith to question the faith of another or to use that faith and seek to use the power of government to impose it on others.
A minister who is in civil rights or in the conservative movement, because he believes his faith instructs him to do that, I admire.
The fact that the faith speaks to us and that we are moral people, hopefully, I accept and rejoice in.
It's when you try to use that to undermine the integrity of private political  or private religious faith and the use of the state is where  for the most personal decisions in American life  that is where I draw the line.
> Yes, it is very difficult to rebut, because I find myself in so much agreement with  Mondale.
I, too, want that wall that is in the Constitution of separation of church and state to remain there.
The only attacks I have made are on people who apparently would break away at that wall from the government side, using the government, using the power of the courts and so forth to hinder that part of the Constitution that says the government shall not only not establish a religion, it shall not inhibit the practice of religion.
And they have been using these things to have government, through court orders, inhibit the practice of religion.
A child wants to say grace in a school cafeteria and a court rules that they cannot do it because it is school property.
These are the types of things that I think have been happening in a kind of a secular way that have been eroding that separation, and I am opposed to that.
With regard to a platform on the Supreme Court, I can only say one thing about that.
I have appointed one member to the Supreme Court: Sandra Day O'Connor.
I will stand on my record on that.
And if I have the opportunity to appoint any more, I will do it in the same manner that I did in selecting her.
Polls indicate a massive change in the electorate, away from the coalition that has long made the Democratic Party a majority.
Blue-collar workers, young professionals, their children, and much of the middle class now regard themselves as Independents or Republican instead of Democrats, and the gap  the edge the Democrats had in party registration seems to be narrowing.
I had like to ask you,  Mondale, what is causing this? Is the Democratic Party out of sync with the majority of Americans? And will it soon be replaced as the majority party by the Republicans? What do you think needs to be done about it, as a Democrat?> Well, again, I am running on the record.
I think sometimes  Mondale's running away from his.
But I am running on the record of what we have asked for.
We'll continue to try to get things that we did not get in a program that has already brought the rate of spending of government down from 17 percent to 6.
1 percent, a program of returning authority and autonomy to the local and State governments that has been unjustly seized by the Federal Government.
And you might find those words in a Democratic platform of some years ago  I know, because I was a Democrat at that time.
And I left the party eventually, because I could no longer follow the turn in the Democratic leadership that took us down an entirely different path, a path of centralizing authority in the Federal Government, lacking trust in the American people.
I promised, when we took office, that we would reduce inflation.
We have, to one-third of what it was.
I promised that we would reduce taxes.
We did, 25 percent across the board.
That barely held even with  if it did that much  with the gigantic tax increase imposed in 1977.
But at least it took that burden away from them.
I said that we would create jobs for our people, and we did  6 million in the last 20 or 21 months.
I said that we would become respected in the world once again and that we would refurbish our national defense to the place that we could deal on the world scene and then seek disarmament, reduction of arms, and, hopefully, an elimination of nuclear weapons.
We have done that.
All of the things that I said we would do, from inflation being down, interest rates being down, unemployment falling, all of those things we have done.
And I think this is something the American people see.
I think they also know that we had a commission that came in a year ago with a recommendation on education  on excellence in education.
And today, without the Federal Government being involved other than passing on to them, the school districts, the words from that commission, we find 35 States with task forces now dealing with their educational problems.
We find that schools are extending the curriculum to now have forced teaching of mathematics and science and so forth.
All of these things have brought an improvement in the college entrance exams for the first time in some 20 years.
So, I think that many Democrats are seeing the same thing this Democrat saw: The leadership is not taking us where we want to go.
There are tasks that government legitimately should enforce and tasks that government performs well, and you have named some of them.
Crime has come down the last 2 years, for the first time in many, many decades that it has come down  or since we have kept records  2 consecutive years, and last year it came down the biggest drop in crime that we have had.
I think that we have had something to do with that, just as we have with the drug problem nationwide.
The environment? Yes, I feel as strongly as anyone about the preservation of the environment.
When we took office, we found that the national parks were so dirty and contained so many hazards, lack of safety features, that we stopped buying additional park land until we had rectified this with what was to be a 5-year program  but it is just about finished already  a billion dollars.
And now we are going back to budgeting for additional lands for our parks.
We have added millions of acres to the wilderness lands, to the game refuges.
I think that we are out in front of most  and I see that the red light is blinking, so I cannot continue.
But I have got more.
Before I campaigned as a Democrat for a Republican candidate for President, I had already voted for Dwight Eisenhower to be President of the United States.
And so, my change had come earlier than that.
I had not gotten around to reregistering as yet.
I found that was rather difficult to do.
But I finally did it.
There are some other things that have been said here  back, and you said that I might be able to dredge them up.
Mondale referred to the farmers' worst year.
The farmers are not the victims of anything this administration has done.
The farmers were the victims of the double-digit inflation and the 21 1/2-percent interest rates of the Carter-Mondale administration and the grain embargo, which destroyed our reliability nationwide as a supplier.
All of these things are presently being rectified, and I think that we are going to salvage the farmers.
As a matter of fact, there has been less than one-quarter of i percent of foreclosures of the 270,000 loans from government that the farmers have.
I have believed that in the appointment of judges that all that was specified in the party platform was that they respect the sanctity of human life.
Now, that I would want to see in any judge and with regard to any issue having to do with human life.
But with regard to abortion, and I have a feeling that this is  there is been some reference without naming it here in the remarks of  Mondale tied to injecting religion into government.
With me, abortion is not a problem of religion, it is a problem of the Constitution.
I believe that until and unless someone can establish that the unborn child is not a living human being, then that child is already protected by the Constitution, which guarantees life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness to all of us.
And I think that this is what we should concentrate on, is trying  I know there were weeks and weeks of testimony before a Senate committee, there were medical authorities, there were religious  there were clerics there  everyone talking about this matter of pro-life.
And at the end of all of that, not one shred of evidence was introduced that the unborn child was not alive.
We have seen premature births that are now grown-up, happy people going around.
Also, there is a strange dichotomy in this whole position about our courts ruling that abortion is not the taking of a human life.
In California, sometime ago, a man beat a woman so savagely that her unborn child was born dead with a fractured skull, and the California State Legislature unanimously passed a law that was signed by the then-Democratic Governor  signed a law that said that any man who so abuses a pregnant woman that he causes the death of her unborn child shall be charged with murder.
Now, is not it strange that that same woman could have taken the life of her unborn child, and it was abortion and not murder, but if somebody else does it, that is murder? And it used the term death of the unborn child.
So, this has been my feeling about abortion, that we have a problem now to determine  and all the evidence so far comes down on the side of the unborn child being a living human being.
The laws regarding that always were state laws.
It was only when the Supreme Court handed down a decision that the Federal Government intervened in what had always been a state policy.
Our laws against murder are state laws.
So, I would think that this would be the point of enforcement on this.
As I say, I feel that we have a problem here to resolve.
And no one has approached it from that matter.
It does not happen that the church that I belong to had that as part of its dogma.
I know that some churches do.
Now, it is a sin if you are taking a human life.
At the same time, in our Judeo-Christian tradition, we recognize the right of taking a human life in self-defense.
And therefore, I have always believed that a mother, if medically it is determined that her life is at risk if she goes through with the pregnancy, she has a right then to take the life of even her own unborn child in defense of her own.
> Yes.
Well, with regard to this being a personal choice, is not that what a murderer is insisting on, his or her right to kill someone because of whatever fault they think justifies that? Now, I am not capable, and I do not think you are, any of us, to make this determination that must be made with regard to human life.
I am simply saying that I believe that that is where the effort should be directed  to make that determination.
I do not think that any of us should be called upon here to stand and make a decision as to what other things might come under the self-defense tradition.
That, too, would have to be worked out then, when you once recognize that we are talking about a life.
But in this great society of ours, would not it make a lot more sense, in this gentle and kind society, if we had a program that made it possible for when incidents come along in which someone feels they must do away with that unborn child, that instead we make it available for the adoption? There are a million and a half people out there standing in line waiting to adopt children who cannot have them any other way.
You know, I was not going to say this at all, but I cannot help it.
There you go again.
I do not have a plan to tax  or increase taxes.
I am not going to increase taxes.
I can understand why you are,  Mondale, because as a Senator you voted 16 times to increase taxes.
Now, I believe that our problem has not been that anybody in our country is undertaxed; it is that government is overfed.
And I think that most of our people  this is why we had a 25-percent tax cut across the board which maintained the same progressivity of our tax structure in the brackets on up.
And, as a matter of fact, it just so happens that in the quirks of administering these taxes, those above $50,000 actually did not get quite as big a tax cut percentage-wise as did those from $50,000 down.
From $50,000 down, those people paid two-thirds of the taxes, and those people got two-thirds of the tax cut.
Now, the Social Security tax of '77  this indeed was a tax that hit people in the lower brackets the hardest.
It had two features.
It had several tax increases phased in over a period of time  there are two more yet to come between now and 1989.
At the same time every year, it increased the amount of money  virtually every year, there may have been one or two that were skipped in there  that was subject to that tax.
Today it is up to about $38,000 of earnings that is subject to the payroll tax for Social Security.
And that tax, there are no deductions, so a person making anywhere from 10, 15, 20  they are paying that tax on the full gross earnings that they have after they have already paid an income tax on that same amount of money.
Now, I do not think that to try and say that we were taxing the rich, and not the other way around, it just does not work out that way.
The system is still where it was with regard to the progressivity, as I have said, and that has not been changed.
But if you take it in numbers of dollars instead of percentage, yes, you could say, well, that person got 10 times as much as this other person.
Yes, but he paid 10 times as much, also.
But if you take it in percentages, then you find out that it is fair and equitable across the board.
Yes, I had used  last resort would always be with me.
If you got the government down to the lowest level, that you yourself could say it could not go any lower and still perform the services for the people, and if the recovery was so complete that you knew you were getting the ultimate amount of revenues that you could get through that growth, and there was still some slight difference there between those two lines, then I had said once that, yes, you would have to then look to see if taxes should not be adjusted.
I do not foresee those things happening, so I say with great confidence I am not going to go for a tax.
With regard to assailing  Bush about his tax problems and the difference from the tax he once paid and then the later tax he paid, I think if you looked at the deductions, there were great legal expenses in there  had to do, possibly, with the sale of his home, and they had to do with his setting up of a blind trust.
All of those are legally deductions, deductible in computing your tax, and it was a 1-year thing with him.
Yes.
Mm-hmm.
And people will remember that you signed the biggest tax increase in the history of California and the biggest tax increase in the history of the United States, and what are you going to do? You've got a $260 billion deficit.
You cannot wish it away.
You will not slow defense spending; you refuse to do that  > Yes.
With regard to Medicare, no, but it is time for us to say that Medicare is in pretty much the same condition that Social Security was, and something is going to have to be done in the next several years to make it fiscally sound.
And, no, I never proposed any $20 billion should come out of Medicare; I have proposed that the program we must treat with that particular problem.
And maybe part of that problem is because during the 4 years of the Carter-Mondale administration medical costs in this country went up 87 percent.
I gave you back some of that time.
Well, some of those facts and figures just do not stand up.
Yes, there has been an increase in poverty, but it is a lower rate of increase than it was in the preceding years before we got here.
It has begun to decline, but it is still going up.
On the other hand, women heads of household  single women heads of household have  for the first time there is been a turndown in the rate of poverty for them.
We have found also in our studies that in this increase in poverty, it all had to do with their private earnings.
It had nothing to do with the transfer of payments from government by way of many programs.
We are spending now 37 percent more on food for the hungry in all the various types of programs than was spent in 1980.
We're spending a third more on all of the  well, all of the programs of human service.
We have more people receiving food stamps than were ever receiving them before  2,300,000 more are receiving them  even though we took 850,000 off the food stamp rolls because they were making an income that was above anything that warranted their fellow citizens having to support them.
We found people making 185 percent of the poverty level were getting government benefits.
We have set a line at 130 percent so that we can direct that aid down to the truly needy.
Some time ago,  Mondale said something about education and college students and help of that kind.
Half  one out of two of the full-time college students in the United States are receiving some form of federal aid.
But there, again, we found people that there under the previous administration, families that had no limit to income were still eligible for low-interest college loans.
We did not think that was right.
And so, we have set a standard that those loans and those grants are directed to the people who otherwise could not go to college, their family incomes were so low.
So, there are a host of other figures that reveal that the grant programs are greater than they have ever been, taking care of more people than they ever have.
7.
7 million elderly citizens who were living in the lowest 20 percent of earnings  7.
7 million have moved up into another bracket since our administration took over, leaving only 5 million of the elderly in that bracket when there had been more than 13 million.
Yes.
That had nothing to do with the other thing of talking about their needs or anything.
I remember distinctly, I was segueing into another subject.
I was talking about the things that have been accomplished, and that was referring to the revival of patriotism and optimism, the new spirit that we are finding all over America.
And it is a wonderful thing to see when you get out there among the people.
So, that was the only place that that was used.
I did avoid, I am afraid, in my previous answer, also, the idea of uneven, yes.
There is no way that the recovery is even across the country, just as in the depths of the recession, there were some parts of the country that were worse off, but some that did not even feel the pain of the recession.
We're not going to rest and not going to be happy until every person in this country who wants a job can have one, until the recovery is complete across the country.
Yes.
The connection that is been made again between the deficit and the interest rates  there is no connection between them.
There is a connection between interest rates and inflation, but I would call to your attention that in 1981 while we were operating still on the Carter-Mondale budget that we inherited  that the interest rates came down from 21 1/2, down toward the 12 or 13 figure.
And while they were coming down, the deficits had started their great increase.
They were going up.
Now, if there was a connection I think that there would be a different parallel between deficits getting larger and interest rates going down.
The interest rates are based on inflation.
And right now I have to tell you I do not think there is any excuse for the interest rates being as high as they are because we have brought inflation down so low.
I think it can only be that they are anticipating or hope  expecting, not hoping, that maybe we do not have a control of inflation and it is going to go back up again.
Well, it is not going to go back up.
We're going to see that it does not.
And I have not got time to answer with regard to the disabled.
> I am going to use my time a little differently.
I am going to give the President some credit.
I think the President has done some things to raise the sense of spirit, morale, good feeling in this country, and he is entitled to credit for that.
What I think we need, however, is not just that but to move forward, not just congratulating ourselves but challenging ourselves to get on with the business of dealing with America's problems.
I think in education, when he lectured the country about the importance of discipline, I did not like it at first, but I think it helped a little bit.
But now we need both that kind of discipline and the resources and the consistent leadership that allows this country to catch up in education and science and training.
I like President Reagan.
And this is not personal  there are deep differences about our future, and that is the basis of my campaign.
> Well, now, I have to start with a smile, since his kind words to me.
I will tell you what I think has been the most outrageous thing in political dialog, both in this campaign and the one in '82.
And that is the continued discussion and claim that somehow I am the villain who is going to pull the Social Security checks out from those people who are dependent on them.
And why I think it is outrageous  first of all, it is not true.
But why it is outrageous is because, for political advantage, every time they do that, they scare millions of senior citizens who are totally dependent on Social Security, have no place else to turn.
And they have to live and go to bed at night thinking, Is this true? Is someone going to take our check away from us and leave us destitute? And I do not think that that should be a part of political dialog.
Now, to  I still  I just have a minute here? Oh, I   Okay.
All right.
Now, Social Security, let us lay it to rest once and for all.
I told you never would I do such a thing.
But I tell you also now, Social Security has nothing to do with the deficit.
Social Security is totally funded by the payroll tax levied on employer and employee.
If you reduce the out-go of Social Security, that money would not go into the general fund to reduce a deficit.
It would go into the Social Security Trust Fund.
So, Social Security has nothing to do with balancing a budget or erasing or lowering the deficit.
Now, again, to get to whether I am depending on magic, I think I have talked in straight economic terms about a program of recovery that I was told would not work.
And then, after it worked, I was told that lowering taxes would increase inflation.
And none of these things happened.
It is working, and we are going to continue on that same line.
As to what we might do, and find in further savings cuts, no, we are not going to starve the hungry.
But we have 2,478 specific recommendations from a commission of more than 2,000 business people in this country, through the Grace commission, that we are studying right now  and we have already implemented 17 percent of them  that are recommendations as to how to make government more efficient, more economic.
Why the deficits are so much of a problem for him now, but that in 1976, when the deficit was $52 billion and everyone was panicking about that, he said, no, that he thought it ought to be bigger, because a bigger deficit would stimulate the economy and would help do away with unemployment.
In 1979 he made similar statements, the same effect, that the deficits  there was nothing wrong with having deficits.
Remember, there was a trillion dollars in debt before we got here.
That's got to be paid by our children and grandchildren, too, if we do not do it.
And I am hoping we can start some payments on it before we get through here.
That's why I want another 4 years.
No, I might as well just go with- I do not think so.
I am all confused now.
You do not get those same voices.
I am not hearing it from here  I am hearing it from here.
> All right.
Well, we will include it in that.
Four years ago, in similar circumstances to this, I asked you, the American people, a question.
I asked: Are you better off than you were 4 years before? The answer to that obviously was no, and as the result, I was elected to this office and promised a new beginning.
Now, maybe I am expected to ask that same question again.
I am not going to, because I think that all of you  or not everyone, those people that are in those pockets of poverty and have not caught up, they could not answer the way I would want them to  but I think that most of the people in this country would say, yes, they are better off than they were 4 years ago.
The question, I think, should be enlarged.
Is America better off than it was 4 years ago? And I believe the answer to that has to also be yes.
I promised a new beginning.
So far, it is only a beginning.
If the job were finished, I might have thought twice about seeking reelection for this job.
But we now have an economy that, for the first time  well, let us put it this way: In the first half of 1980, gross national product was down a minus 3.
7 percent.
The first half of '84 it is up 8 1/2 percent.
Productivity in the first half of 1980 was down a minus 2 percent.
Today it is up a plus 4 percent.
Personal earnings after taxes per capita have gone up almost $3,000 in these 4 years.
In 1980  or 1979, a person with a fixed income of $8,000 was $500 above the poverty line, and this maybe explains why there are the numbers still in poverty.
By 1980 that same person was $500 below the poverty line.
We have restored much of our economy.
With regard to business investment, it is higher than it has been since 1949.
So, there seems to be no shortage of investment capital.
We have, as I said, cut the taxes, but we have reduced inflation, and for 2 years now it has stayed down there, not at double digit, but in the range of 4 or below.
We believe that we had also promised that we would make our country more secure.
Yes, we have an increase in the defense budget.
But back then we had planes that could not fly for lack of spare parts or pilots.
We had navy vessels that could not leave harbor because of lack of crew or, again, lack of spare parts.
Today we are well on our way to a 600-ship navy.
We have 543 at present.
We have  our military, the morale is high.
I think the people should understand that two-thirds of the defense budget pays for pay and salary, or pay and pension.
And then you add to that food and wardrobe, and all the other things, and you only have a small portion going for weapons.
But I am determined that if ever our men are called on, they should have the best that we can provide in the manner of tools and weapons.
There has been reference to expensive spare parts, hammers costing $500.
Well, we are the ones who found those.
I think we have given the American people back their spirit.
I think there is an optimism in the land and a patriotism, and I think that we are in a position once again to heed the words of Thomas Paine, who said: We have it in our power to begin the world over again.
The New Republic magazine; and Henry Trewhitt, diplomatic correspondent for the Baltimore Sun.
Edwin Newman, formerly of NBC News and now a syndicated columnist for King Features, is our moderator.
Ed.
> No, but I am glad you asked that question, because I know it is on many peoples' minds.
I have ordered an investigation.
I know that the CIA is already going forward with one.
We have a gentleman down in Nicaragua who is on contract to the CIA, advising  supposedly on military tactics  the contras.
And he drew up this manual.
It was turned over to the agency head of the CIA in Nicaragua to be printed.
And a number of pages were excised by that agency head there, the man in charge, and he sent it on up here to CIA, where more pages were excised before it was printed.
But some way or other, there were 12 of the original copies that got out down there and were not submitted for this printing process by the CIA Now, those are the details as we have them.
And as soon as we have an investigation and find out where any blame lies for the few that did not get excised or changed, we certainly are going to do something about that.
We'll take the proper action at the proper time.
I was very interested to hear about Central America and our process down there, and I thought for a moment that instead of a debate I was going to find  Mondale in complete agreement with what we are doing, because the plan that he has outlined is the one we have been following for quite some time, including diplomatic processes throughout Central America and working closely with the Contadora group.
So, I can only tell you about the manual  that we are not in the habit of assigning guilt before there has been proper evidence produced and proof of that guilt.
But if guilt is established, whoever is guilty we will treat with that situation then, and they will be removed.
I am afraid I misspoke when I said a CIA head in Nicaragua.
There's not someone there directing all of this activity.
There are, as you know, CIA men stationed in other countries in the world and, certainly, in Central America.
And so it was a man down there in that area that this was delivered to, and he recognized that what was in that manual was in direct contravention of my own Executive order, in December of 1981, that we would have nothing to do with regard to political assassinations.
Yes.
I have so many things there to respond to, I am going to pick out something you said earlier.
You've been all over the country repeating something that, I will admit, the press has also been repeating  that I believed that nuclear missiles could be fired and then called back.
I never, ever conceived of such a thing.
I never said any such thing.
In a discussion of our strategic arms negotiations, I said that submarines carrying missiles and airplanes carrying missiles were more conventional-type weapons, not as destabilizing as the land-based missiles, and that they were also weapons that  or carriers  that if they were sent out and there was a change, you could call them back before they had launched their missiles.
But I hope that from here on you will no longer be saying that particular thing, which is absolutely false.
How anyone could think that any sane person would believe you could call back a nuclear missile, I think is as ridiculous as the whole concept has been.
So, thank you for giving me a chance to straighten the record.
I am sure that you appreciate that.
I have said on a number of occasions exactly what I believe about the Soviet Union.
I retract nothing that I have said.
I believe that many of the things they have done are evil in any concept of morality that we have.
But I also recognize that as the two great superpowers in the world, we have to live with each other.
And I told  Gromyko we do not like their system.
They do not like ours.
And we are not going to change their system, and they sure better not try to change ours.
But between us, we can either destroy the world or we can save it.
And I suggested that, certainly, it was to their common interest, along with ours, to avoid a conflict and to attempt to save the world and remove the nuclear weapons.
And I think that perhaps we established a little better understanding.
I think that in dealing with the Soviet Union one has to be realistic.
I know that  Mondale, in the past, has made statements as if they were just people like ourselves, and if we were kind and good and did something nice, they would respond accordingly.
And the result was unilateral disarmament.
We canceled the B-1 under the previous administration.
What did we get for it? Nothing.
The Soviet Union has been engaged in the biggest military buildup in the history of man at the same time that we tried the policy of unilateral disarmament, of weakness, if you will.
And now we are putting up a defense of our own.
And I have made it very plain to them, we seek no superiority.
We simply are going to provide a deterrent so that it will be too costly for them if they are nursing any ideas of aggression against us.
Now, they claim they are not.
And I made it plain to them, we are not.
There's been no change in my attitude at all.
I just thought when I came into office it was time that there was some realistic talk to and about the Soviet Union.
And we did get their attention.
Ah, well, now you have added a hypothetical there at the end,  Kalb, about where we would send troops in to fight.
I am not going to make the decision as to what the tactics could be, but obviously there are a number of areas in the world that are of importance to us.
One is the Middle East, and that is of interest to the whole Western World and the industrialized nations, because of the great supply of energy upon which so many depend there.
Our neighbors here in America are vital to us.
We're working right now in trying to be of help in southern Africa with regard to the independence of Namibia and the removal of the Cuban surrogates, the thousands of them, from Angola.
So, I can say there are a great many interests.
I believe that we have a great interest in the Pacific Basin.
That is where I think the future of the world lies.
But I am not going to pick out one and, in advance, hypothetically say, Oh, yes, we would send troops there.
I do not want to send troops any place.
All right.
Yes.
I am not going to continue trying to respond to these repetitions of the falsehoods that have already been stated here.
But with regard to whether  Mondale would be strong, as he said he would be, I know that he has a commercial out where he is appearing on the deck of the Nimitz and watching the F-14s take off.
And that is an image of strength  except that if he had had his way when the Nimitz was being planned, he would have been deep in the water out there because there would not have been any Nimitz to stand on  he was against it.
He was against the F-14 fighter, he was against the M-1 tank, he was against the BI bomber, he wanted to cut the salary of all of the military, he wanted to bring home half of the American forces in Europe.
And he has a record of weakness with regard to our national defense that is second to none.
Indeed, he was on that side virtually throughout all his years in the Senate.
And he opposed even President Carter, when toward the end of his term President Carter wanted to increase the defense budget.
I propose a budget  I have proposed a budget which would increase our nation's strength, in real terms, by double that of the Soviet Union.
I will tell you where we disagree.
It is true over 10 years ago I voted to delay production of the F-14, and I will tell you why.
The plane was not flying the way it was supposed to be; it was a waste of money.
Your definition of national strength is to throw money at the Defense Department.
My definition of national strength is to make certain that a dollar spent buys us a dollar's worth of defense.
There's a big difference between the two of us.
A President must manage that budget.
I will keep us strong, but you will not do that unless you command that budget and make certain we get the strength that we need.
You pay $500 for a $5 hammer, you are not buying strength.
> No, Morton, I do not agree to all of those things.
First of all, when we and our allies  the Italians, the French, and the United Kingdom  went into Lebanon, we went in there at the request of what was left of the Lebanese government to be a stabilizing force while they tried to establish a government.
But the first  pardon me  the first time we went in, we went in at their request because the war was going on right in Beirut between Israel and the PLO terrorists.
Israel could not be blamed for that.
Those terrorists had been violating their northern border consistently, and Israel chased them all the way to there.
Then we went in with the multinational force to help remove, and did remove, more than 13,000 of those terrorists from Lebanon.
We departed.
And then the government of Lebanon asked us back in as a stabilizing force while they established a government and sought to get the foreign forces all the way out of Lebanon and that they could then take care of their own borders.
And we were succeeding.
We were there for the better part of a year.
Our position happened to be at the airport.
Oh, there were occasional snipings and sometimes some artillery fire, but we did not engage in conflict that was out of line with our mission.
I will never send troops anywhere on a mission of that kind without telling them that if somebody shoots at them, they can darn well shoot back.
And this is what we did.
We never initiated any kind of action; we defended ourselves there.
But we were succeeding to the point that the Lebanese government had been organized  if you will remember, there were the meetings in Geneva in which they began to meet with the hostile factional forces and try to put together some kind of a peace plan.
We were succeeding, and that was why the terrorist acts began.
There are forces there  and that includes Syria, in my mind  who do not want us to succeed, who do not want that kind of a peace with a dominant Lebanon, dominant over its own territory.
And so, the terrorist acts began and led to the one great tragedy when they were killed in that suicide bombing of the building.
Then the multilateral force withdrew for only one reason: We withdrew because we were no longer able to carry out the mission for which we had been sent in.
But we went in in the interest of peace and to keep Israel and Syria from getting into the sixth war between them.
And I have no apologies for our going on a peace mission.
Morton, no.
I think there is a great difference between the government of Iran threatening our diplomatic personnel, and there is a government that you can see and can put your hand on.
In the terrorist situation, there are terrorist factions all over.
In a recent 30-day period, 37 terrorist acts in 20 countries have been committed.
The most recent has been the one in Brighton.
In dealing with terrorists, yes, we want to retaliate, but only if we can put our finger on the people responsible and not endanger the lives of innocent civilians there in the various communities and in the city of Beirut where these terrorists are operating.
I have just signed legislation to add to our ability to deal, along with our allies, with this terrorist problem.
And it is going to take all the nations together, just as when we banded together we pretty much resolved the whole problem of skyjackings sometime ago.
Well, the red light went on.
I could have gone on forever.
Yes.
First of all,  Mondale should know that the President of the United States did not order the marines into that barracks.
That was a command decision made by the commanders on the spot and based with what they thought was best for the men there.
That is one.
On the other things that you have just said about the terrorists, I am tempted to ask you what you would do.
These are unidentified people, and after the bomb goes off, they are blown to bits because they are suicidal individuals who think they are going to go to paradise if they perpetrate such an act and lose their life in doing it.
We are going to, as I say, we are busy trying to find the centers where these operations stem from, and retaliation will be taken.
But we are not going to simply kill some people to say, Oh, look, we got even.
We want to know when we retaliate that we are retaliating with those who are responsible for the terrorist acts.
And terrorist acts are such that our own United States Capitol in Washington has been bombed twice.
Not at all,  Trewhitt, and I want you to know that also I will not make age an issue of this campaign.
I am not going to exploit, for political purposes, my opponent's youth and inexperience.
If I still have time, I might add,  Trewhitt, I might add that it was Seneca or it was Cicero, I do not know which, that said, If it was not for the elders correcting the mistakes of the young, there would be no state.
Yes, this had to do with our disarmament talks.
And the whole controversy about land missiles came up because we thought that the strategic nuclear weapons, the most destabilizing are the land-based.
You put your thumb on a button and somebody blows up 20 minutes later.
So, we thought that it would be simpler to negotiate first with those.
And then we made it plain, a second phase, take up the submarine-launched or the airborne missiles.
The Soviet Union, to our surprise  and not just mine  made it plain when we brought this up that they placed, they thought, a greater reliance on the landbased missiles and, therefore, they wanted to take up all three.
And we agreed.
We said, All right, if that is what you want to do.
But it was a surprise to us, because they outnumbered us 64 to 36 in submarines and 20 percent more bombers capable of carrying nuclear missiles than we had.
So, why should we believe that they had placed that much more reliance on landbased? But even after we gave in and said, All right, let us discuss it all, they walked away from the table.
We did not.
Deadly Gambits, concludes that this President has failed to master the essential details needed to command and lead us, both in terms of security and terms of arms control.
That's why they call the President the Commander in Chief.
Good intentions, I grant.
But it takes more than that.
You must be tough and smart.
> Yes.
I know it will come as a surprise to  Mondale, but I am in charge.
And, as a matter of fact, we have not avoided arms control talks with the Soviet Union.
Very early in my administration I proposed  and I think something that had never been proposed by any previous administration  I proposed a total elimination of intermediate-range missiles, where the Soviets had better than a 10  and still have  better than a 10-to-1 advantage over the allies in Europe.
When they protested that and suggested a smaller number, perhaps, I went along with that.
The so-called negotiation that you said I walked out on was the so-called walk in the woods between one of our representatives and one of the Soviet Union, and it was not me that turned it down, the Soviet Union disavowed it.
Deadly Gambits.
The other is John Neuhaus, who is one of the most distinguished arms control specialists in our country.
Both said that this administration turned down the walk in the woods agreement first, and that would have been a perfect agreement from the standpoint of the United States in Europe and our security.
When  Nitze, a good negotiator, returned, he was rebuked, and his boss was fired.
This is the kind of leadership that we have had in this administration on the most deadly issue of our times.
Now we have a runaway arms race.
All they have got to show for four years in U.
S.
-Soviet relations is one meeting in the last weeks of an administration, and nothing before.
They're tough negotiators, but all previous Presidents have made progress.
This one has not.
> Georgie Anne, we, believe me, supported the Simpson-Mazzoli bill strongly  and the bill that came out of the Senate.
However, there were things added in in the House side that we felt made it less of a good bill; as a matter of fact, made it a bad bill.
And in conference  we stayed with them in conference all the way to where even Senator Simpson did not want the bill in the manner in which it would come out of the conference committee.
There were a number of things in there that weakened that bill.
I cannot go into detail about them here.
But it is true our borders are out of control.
It is also true that this has been a situation on our borders back through a number of administrations.
And I supported this bill.
I believe in the idea of amnesty for those who have put down roots and who have lived here even though sometime back they may have entered illegally.
With regard to the employer sanctions, we must have that not only to ensure that we can identify the illegal aliens, but also, while some keep protesting about what it would do to employers, there is another employer that we should not be so concerned about, and these are employers down through the years who have encouraged the illegal entry into this country because they then hire these individuals and hire them at starvation wages and with none of the benefits that we think are normal and natural for workers in our country, and the individuals cannot complain because of their illegal status.
We do not think that those people should be allowed to continue operating free.
And this was why the provisions that we had in with regard to sanctions, and so forth  and I am going to do everything I can, and all of us in the administration are, to join in again when Congress is back at it to get an immigration bill that will give us, once again, control of our borders.
And with regard to friendship below the border and with the countries down there, yes, no administration that I know has established the relationship that we have with our Latin friends.
But as long as they have an economy that leaves so many people in dire poverty and unemployment, they are going to seek that employment across our borders.
And we work with those other countries.
No.
As a matter of fact, the population explosion, if you look at the actual figures, has been vastly exaggerated  over exaggerated.
As a matter of fact, there are some pretty scientific and solid figures about how much space there still is in the world and how many more people we can have.
It's almost like going back to the Malthusian theory, when even then they were saying that everyone would starve with the limited population they had then.
But the problem of population growth is one, here, with regard to our immigration.
And we have been the safety valve, whether we wanted to or not, with the illegal entry here, in Mexico, where their population is increasing and they do not have an economy that can absorb them and provide the jobs.
And this is what we are trying to work out, not only to protect our own borders but to have some kind of fairness and recognition of that problem.
Well, my rebuttal is I have heard the national debt blamed for a lot of things, but not for illegal immigration across our border    and it has nothing to do with it.
But with regard to these high interest rates, too, at least give us the recognition of the fact that when you left office,  Mondale, they were 21 1/2  the prime rate.
It's now 12 1/4, and I predict it will be coming down a little more shortly.
So, we are trying to undo some of the things that your administration did.
Kalb, I think what has been hailed as something I am supposedly, as President, discussing as principle is the recall of just some philosophical discussions with people who are interested in the same things; and that is the prophecies down through the years, the biblical prophecies of what would portend the coming of Armageddon, and so forth, and the fact that a number of theologians for the last decade or more have believed that this was true, that the prophecies are coming together that portend that.
But no one knows whether Armageddon, those prophecies mean that Armageddon is a thousand years away or day after tomorrow.
So, I have never seriously warned and said we must plan according to Armageddon.
Now, with regard to having to say whether we would try to survive in the event of a nuclear war, of course we would.
But let me also point out that to several parliaments around the world, in Europe and in Asia, I have made a statement to each one of them, and I will repeat it here: A nuclear war cannot be won and must never be fought.
And that is why we are maintaining a deterrent and trying to achieve a deterrent capacity to where no one would believe that they could start such a war and escape with limited damage.
But the deterrent  and that is what it is for  is also what led me to propose what is now being called the Star Wars concept, but propose that we research to see if there is not a defensive weapon that could defend against incoming missiles.
And if such a defense could be found, would not it be far more humanitarian to say that now we can defend against a nuclear war by destroying missiles instead of slaughtering millions of people? Why not? What if we did  and I hope we can; we are still researching  what if we come up with a weapon that renders those missiles obsolete? There has never been a weapon invented in the history of man that has not led to a defensive, a counter-weapon.
But suppose we came up with that? Now, some people have said, Ah, that would make war imminent, because they would think that we could launch a first strike because we could defend against the enemy.
But why not do what I have offered to do and asked the Soviet Union to do? Say, Look, here's what we can do.
We'll even give it to you.
Now, will you sit down with us and once and for all get rid, all of us, of these nuclear weapons and free mankind from that threat? I think that would be the greatest use of a defensive weapon.
Yes, my rebuttal, once again, is that this invention that has just been created here of how I would go about rolling over for the Soviet Union  no,  Mondale, my idea would be with that defensive weapon that we would sit down with them and then say, Now, are you willing to join us? Here's what we  give them a demonstration and then say  Here's what we can do.
Now, if you are willing to join us in getting rid of all the nuclear weapons in the world, then we will give you this one, so that we would both know that no one can cheat; that we are both got something that if anyone tries to cheat.
But when you keep Star-Warring it  I never suggested where the weapons should be or what kind; I am not a scientist.
I said, and the Joint Chiefs of Staff agreed with me, that it was time for us to turn our research ability to seeing if we could not find this kind of defensive weapon.
And suddenly somebody says, Oh, it is got to be up there, and it is Star Wars, and so forth.
I do not know what it would be, but if we can come up with one, I think the world will be better off.
If they are antisatellite weapons, I assume they are going to be aimed against satellites.
Now, this is the most dangerous technology that we possess.
The Soviets try to spy on us, steal this stuff.
And to give them technology of this kind, I disagree with.
You have not just accepted research,  President.
You've set up a Strategic Defense Initiative, an agency, you are beginning to test, you are talking about deploying, you are asking for a budget of some $30 billion for this purpose.
This is an arms escalation.
And we will be better off, far better off, if we stop right now, because we have more to lose in space then they do.
If someday, somebody comes along with an answer, that is something else.
But that there would be an answer in our lifetime is unimaginable.
Why do we start things that we know the Soviets will match and make us all less secure? That's what a President's for.
> Well, as I say, we have to look at what an overthrow there would mean and what the government would be that would follow.
And there is every evidence, every indication that that government would be hostile to the United States.
And that would be a severe blow to our abilities there in the Pacific.
Well, the invasion of Afghanistan did not take place on our watch.
I have described what has happened in Iran, and we were not here then either.
I do not think that our record of human rights can be assailed.
I think that we have observed, ourselves, and have done our best to see that human rights are extended throughout the world.
Mondale has recently announced a plan of his to get the democracies together and to work with the whole world to turn to democracy.
And I was glad to hear him say that, because that is what we have been doing ever since I announced to the British Parliament that I thought we should do this.
Human rights are not advanced when, at the same time, you then stand back and say, Whoops, we did not know the gun was loaded, and you have another totalitarian power on your hands.
Well, I cannot say that I have roundtabled that and sat down with the Chiefs of Staff, but I have said that it seems to me that this could be a logical step in what is my ultimate goal, my ultimate dream, and that is the elimination of nuclear weapons in the world.
And it seems to me that this could be an adjunct, or certainly a great assisting agent in getting that done.
I am not going to roll over, as  Mondale suggests, and give them something that could turn around and be used against us.
But I think it is a very interesting proposal, to see if we can find, first of all, something that renders those weapons obsolete, incapable of their mission.
But  Mondale seems to approve MAD  MAD is mutual assured destruction-meaning, if you use nuclear weapons on us, the only thing we have to keep you from doing it is that we will kill as many people of yours as you will kill of ours.
I think that to do everything we can to find, as I say, something that would destroy weapons and not humans is a great step forward in human rights.
> Yes.
My thanks to the League of Women Voters, to the panelists, the moderator, and to the people of Kansas City for their warm hospitality and greeting.
I think the American people tonight have much to be grateful for  an economic recovery that has become expansion, freedom and, most of all, we are at peace.
I am grateful for the chance to reaffirm my commitment to reduce nuclear weapons and, one day, to eliminate them entirely.
The question before you comes down to this: Do you want to see America return to the policies of weakness of the last four years? Or do we want to go forward, marching together, as a nation of strength and that is going to continue to be strong? We should not be dwelling on the past, or even the present.
The meaning of this election is the future and whether we are going to grow and provide the jobs and the opportunities for all Americans and that they need.
Several years ago, I was given an assignment to write a letter.
It was to go into a time capsule and would be read in 100 years when that time capsule was opened.
I remember driving down the California coast one day.
My mind was full of what I was going to put in that letter about the problems and the issues that confront us in our time and what we did about them.
But I could not completely neglect the beauty around me  the Pacific out there on one side of the highway, shining in the sunlight, the mountains of the coast range rising on the other side.
And I found myself wondering what it would be like for someone-wondering if someone 100 years from now would be driving down that highway, and if they would see the same thing.
And with that thought, I realized what a job I had with that letter.
I would be writing a letter to people who know everything there is to know about us.
We know nothing about them.
They would know all about our problems.
They would know how we solved them, and whether our solution was beneficial to them down through the years or whether it hurt them.
They would also know that we lived in a world with terrible weapons, nuclear weapons of terrible destructive power, aimed at each other, capable of crossing the ocean in a matter of minutes and destroying civilization as we knew it.
And then I thought to myself, what are they going to say about us, what are those people 100 years from now going to think? They will know whether we used those weapons or not.
Well, what they will say about us 100 years from now depends on how we keep our rendezvous with destiny.
Will we do the things that we know must be done and know that one day, down in history 100 years or perhaps before, someone will say, Thank God for those people back in the 1980s for preserving our freedom, for saving for us this blessed planet called Earth, with all its grandeur and its beauty.
You know, I am grateful to all of you for giving me the opportunity to serve you for these four years, and I seek reelection because I want more than anything else to try to complete the new beginning that we charted four years ago.
George Bush, who I think is one of the finest Vice Presidents this country has ever had  George Bush and I have crisscrossed the country, and we have had, in these last few months, a wonderful experience.
We have met young America.
We have met your sons and daughters.
All right.
I was just going to   I know.
I know, yes.
Senator Mathias, Chief Justice Burger, Vice President Bush, Speaker O'Neill, Senator Dole, reverend clergy, and members of my family and friends and my fellow citizens:This day has been made brighter with the presence here of one who, for a time, has been absent.
Senator John Stennis, God bless you and welcome back.
There is, however, one who is not with us today.
Representative Gillis Long of Louisiana left us last night.
And I wonder if we could all join in a moment of silent prayer.
Amen.
There are no words adequate to express my thanks for the great honor that you have bestowed on me.
I will do my utmost to be deserving of your trust.
This is, as Senator Mathias told us, the 50th time that we, the people, have celebrated this historic occasion.
When the first President, George Washington, placed his hand upon the Bible, he stood less than a single day's journey by horseback from raw, untamed wilderness.
There were 4 million Americans in a union of 13 States.
Today, we are 60 times as many in a union of 50 States.
We've lighted the world with our inventions, gone to the aid of mankind wherever in the world there was a cry for help, journeyed to the Moon and safely returned.
So much has changed, and yet we stand together as we did two centuries ago.
When I took this oath 4 years ago, I did so in a time of economic stress.
Voices were raised saying that we had to look to our past for the greatness and glory.
But we, the present-day Americans, are not given to looking backward.
In this blessed land, there is always a better tomorrow.
Four years ago, I spoke to you of a New Beginning, and we have accomplished that.
But in another sense, our New Beginning is a continuation of that beginning created two centuries ago when, for the first time in history, government, the people said, was not our master, it is our servant; its only power that which we the people allow it to have.
That system has never failed us, but for a time we failed the system.
We asked things of government that government was not equipped to give.
We yielded authority to the National Government that properly belonged to States or to local governments or to the people themselves.
We allowed taxes and inflation to rob us of our earnings and savings and watched the great industrial machine that had made us the most productive people on Earth slow down and the number of unemployed increase.
By 1980 we knew it was time to renew our faith, to strive with all our strength toward the ultimate in individual freedom, consistent with an orderly society.
We believed then and now: There are no limits to growth and human progress when men and women are free to follow their dreams.
And we were right to believe that.
Tax rates have been reduced, inflation cut dramatically, and more people are employed than ever before in our history.
We are creating a nation once again vibrant, robust, and alive.
But there are many mountains yet to climb.
We will not rest until every American enjoys the fullness of freedom, dignity, and opportunity as our birthright.
It is our birthright as citizens of this great Republic.
And if we meet this challenge, these will be years when Americans have restored their confidence and tradition of progress; when our values of faith, family, work, and neighborhood were restated for a modern age; when our economy was finally freed from government's grip; when we made sincere efforts at meaningful arms reductions and by rebuilding our defenses, our economy, and developing new technologies, helped preserve peace in a troubled world; when America courageously supported the struggle for individual liberty, self-government, and free enterprise throughout the world and turned the tide of history away from totalitarian darkness and into the warm sunlight of human freedom.
My fellow citizens, our nation is poised for greatness.
We must do what we know is right, and do it with all our might.
Let history say of us: These were golden years  when the American Revolution was reborn, when freedom gained new life, and America reached for her best.
Our two-party system has solved us  served us, I should say, well over the years, but never better than in those times of great challenge when we came together not as Democrats or Republicans, but as Americans united in a common cause.
Two of our Founding Fathers, a Boston lawyer named Adams and a Virginia planter named Jefferson, members of that remarkable group who met in Independence Hall and dared to think they could start the world over again, left us an important lesson.
They had become, in the years then in government, bitter political rivals in the Presidential election of 1800.
Then, years later, when both were retired and age had softened their anger, they began to speak to each other again through letters.
A bond was reestablished between those two who had helped create this government of ours.
In 1826, the 50th anniversary of the Declaration of Independence, they both died.
They died on the same day, within a few hours of each other, and that day was the Fourth of July.
In one of those letters exchanged in the sunset of their lives, Jefferson wrote: It carries me back to the times when, beset with difficulties and dangers, we were fellow laborers in the same cause, struggling for what is most valuable to man, his right of self-government.
Laboring always at the same oar, with some wave ever ahead threatening to overwhelm us, and yet passing harmless.
we rode through the storm with heart and hand.
Well, with heart and hand let us stand as one today  one people under God, determined that our future shall be worthy of our past.
As we do, we must not repeat the well-intentioned errors of our past.
We must never again abuse the trust of working men and women by sending their earnings on a futile chase after the spiraling demands of a bloated Federal Establishment.
You elected us in 1980 to end this prescription for disaster, and I do not believe you reelected us in 1984 to reverse course.
At the heart of our efforts is one idea vindicated by 25 straight months of economic growth: Freedom and incentives unleash the drive and entrepreneurial genius that are the core of human progress.
We have begun to increase the rewards for work, savings, and investment; reduce the increase in the cost and size of government and its interference in people's lives.
We must simplify our tax system, make it more fair and bring the rates down for all who work and earn.
We must think anew and move with a new boldness, so every American who seeks work can find work, so the least among us shall have an equal chance to achieve the greatest things  to be heroes who heal our sick, feed the hungry, protect peace among nations, and leave this world a better place.
The time has come for a new American emancipation  a great national drive to tear down economic barriers and liberate the spirit of enterprise in the most distressed areas of our country.
My friends, together we can do this, and do it we must, so help me God.
From new freedom will spring new opportunities for growth, a more productive, fulfilled, and united people, and a stronger America  an America that will lead the technological revolution and also open its mind and heart and soul to the treasures of literature, music, and poetry, and the values of faith, courage, and love.
A dynamic economy, with more citizens working and paying taxes, will be our strongest tool to bring down budget deficits.
But an almost unbroken 50 years of deficit spending has finally brought us to a time of reckoning.
We've come to a turning point, a moment for hard decisions.
I have asked the Cabinet and my staff a question and now I put the same question to all of you.
If not us, who? And if not now, when? It must be done by all of us going forward with a program aimed at reaching a balanced budget.
We can then begin reducing the national debt.
I will shortly submit a budget to the Congress aimed at freezing government program spending for the next year.
Beyond this, we must take further steps to permanently control government's power to tax and spend.
We must act now to protect future generations from government's desire to spend its citizens' money and tax them into servitude when the bills come due.
Let us make it unconstitutional for the Federal Government to spend more than the Federal Government takes in.
We have already started returning to the people and to State and local governments responsibilities better handled by them.
Now, there is a place for the Federal Government in matters of social compassion.
But our fundamental goals must be to reduce dependency and upgrade the dignity of those who are infirm or disadvantaged.
And here, a growing economy and support from family and community offer our best chance for a society where compassion is a way of life, where the old and infirm are cared for, the young and, yes, the unborn protected, and the unfortunate looked after and made self-sufficient.
Now, there is another area where the Federal Government can play a part.
As an older American, I remember a time when people of different race, creed, or ethnic origin in our land found hatred and prejudice installed in social custom and, yes, in law.
There's no story more heartening in our history than the progress that we have made toward the brotherhood of man that God intended for us.
Let us resolve there will be no turning back or hesitation on the road to an America rich in dignity and abundant with opportunity for all our citizens.
Let us resolve that we, the people, will build an American opportunity society in which all of us  white and black, rich and poor, young and old  will go forward together, arm in arm.
Again, let us remember that though our heritage is one of blood lines from every corner of the Earth, we are all Americans, pledged to carry on this last, best hope of man on Earth.
I have spoken of our domestic goals and the limitations we should put on our National Government.
Now let me turn to a task that is the primary responsibility of National Government  the safety and security of our people.
Today, we utter no prayer more fervently than the ancient prayer for peace on Earth.
Yet history has shown that peace does not come, nor will our freedom be preserved, by good will alone.
There are those in the world who scorn our vision of human dignity and freedom.
One nation, the Soviet Union, has conducted the greatest military buildup in the history of man, building arsenals of awesome offensive weapons.
We've made progress in restoring our defense capability.
But much remains to be done.
There must be no wavering by us, nor any doubts by others, that America will meet her responsibilities to remain free, secure, and at peace.
There is only one way safely and legitimately to reduce the cost of national security, and that is to reduce the need for it.
And this we are trying to do in negotiations with the Soviet Union.
We're not just discussing limits on a further increase of nuclear weapons; we seek, instead, to reduce their number.
We seek the total elimination one day of nuclear weapons from the face of the Earth.
Now, for decades, we and the Soviets have lived under the threat of mutual assured destruction  if either resorted to the use of nuclear weapons, the other could retaliate and destroy the one who had started it.
Is there either logic or morality in believing that if one side threatens to kill tens of millions of our people our only recourse is to threaten killing tens of millions of theirs?I have approved a research program to find, if we can, a security shield that will destroy nuclear missiles before they reach their target.
It would not kill people; it would destroy weapons.
It would not militarize space; it would help demilitarize the arsenals of Earth.
It would render nuclear weapons obsolete.
We will meet with the Soviets, hoping that we can agree on a way to rid the world of the threat of nuclear destruction.
We strive for peace and security, heartened by the changes all around us.
Since the turn of the century, the number of democracies in the world has grown fourfold.
Human freedom is on the march, and nowhere more so than in our own hemisphere.
Freedom is one of the deepest and noblest aspirations of the human spirit.
People, worldwide, hunger for the right of self-determination, for those inalienable rights that make for human dignity and progress.
America must remain freedom's staunchest friend, for freedom is our best ally and it is the world's only hope to conquer poverty and preserve peace.
Every blow we inflict against poverty will be a blow against its dark allies of oppression and war.
Every victory for human freedom will be a victory for world peace.
So, we go forward today, a nation still mighty in its youth and powerful in its purpose.
With our alliances strengthened, with our economy leading the world to a new age of economic expansion, we look to a future rich in possibilities.
And all of this is because we worked and acted together, not as members of political parties but as Americans.
My friends, we live in a world that is lit by lightning.
So much is changing and will change, but so much endures and transcends time.
History is a ribbon, always unfurling.
History is a journey.
And as we continue our journey, we think of those who traveled before us.
We stand again at the steps of this symbol of our democracy  well, we would have been standing at the steps if it had not gotten so cold.
Now we are standing inside this symbol of our democracy, and we see and hear again the echoes of our past: a general falls to his knees in the hard snow of Valley Forge; a lonely President paces the darkened halls and ponders his struggle to preserve the Union; the men of the Alamo call out encouragement to each other; a settler pushes west and sings a song, and the song echoes out forever and fills the unknowing air.
It is the American sound.
It is hopeful, big-hearted, idealistic, daring, decent, and fair.
That's our heritage, that is our song.
We sing it still.
For all our problems, our differences, we are together as of old.
We raise our voices to the God who is the Author of this most tender music.
And may He continue to hold us close as we fill the world with our sound  in unity, affection, and love  one people under God, dedicated to the dream of freedom that He has placed in the human heart, called upon now to pass that dream on to a waiting and hopeful world.
God bless you, and God bless America.
Speaker,  President, distinguished Members of the Congress, honored guests, and fellow citizens:I come before you to report on the state of our Union, and I am pleased to report that after four years of united effort, the American people have brought forth a nation renewed, stronger, freer, and more secure than before.
Four years ago we began to change, forever I hope, our assumptions about government and its place in our lives.
Out of that change has come great and robust growth-in our confidence, our economy, and our role in the world.
Tonight America is stronger because of the values that we hold dear.
We believe faith and freedom must be our guiding stars, for they show us truth, they make us brave, give us hope, and leave us wiser than we were.
Our progress began not in Washington, DC, but in the hearts of our families, communities, workplaces, and voluntary groups which, together, are unleashing the invincible spirit of one great nation under God.
Four years ago we said we would invigorate our economy by giving people greater freedom and incentives to take risks and letting them keep more of what they earned.
We did what we promised, and a great industrial giant is reborn.
Tonight we can take pride in 25 straight months of economic growth, the strongest in 34 years; a 3-year inflation average of 3.
9 percent, the lowest in 17 years; and 7.
3 million new jobs in 2 years, with more of our citizens working than ever before.
New freedom in our lives has planted the rich seeds for future success:For an America of wisdom that honors the family, knowing that if  the family goes, so goes our civilization;For an America of vision that sees tomorrow's dreams in the learning and hard work we do today;For an America of courage whose service men and women, even as we meet, proudly stand watch on the frontiers of freedom;For an America of compassion that opens its heart to those who cry out for help.
We have begun well.
But it is only a beginning.
We're not here to congratulate ourselves on what we have done but to challenge ourselves to finish what has not yet been done.
We're here to speak for millions in our inner cities who long for real jobs, safe neighborhoods, and schools that truly teach.
We're here to speak for the American farmer, the entrepreneur, and every worker in industries fighting to modernize and compete.
And, yes, we are here to stand, and proudly so, for all who struggle to break free from totalitarianism, for all who know in their hearts that freedom is the one true path to peace and human happiness.
Proverbs tell us, without a vision the people perish.
When asked what great principle holds our Union together, Abraham Lincoln said: Something in  Declaration giving liberty, not alone to the people of this country, but hope to the world for all future time.
We honor the giants of our history not by going back but forward to the dreams their vision foresaw.
My fellow citizens, this nation is poised for greatness.
The time has come to proceed toward a great new challenge  a second American Revolution of hope and opportunity; a revolution carrying us to new heights of progress by pushing back frontiers of knowledge and space; a revolution of spirit that taps the soul of America, enabling us to summon greater strength than we have ever known; and a revolution that carries beyond our shores the golden promise of human freedom in a world of peace.
Let us begin by challenging our conventional wisdom.
There are no constraints on the human mind, no walls around the human spirit, no barriers to our progress except those we ourselves erect.
Already, pushing down tax rates has freed our economy to vault forward to record growth.
In Europe, they are calling it the American Miracle.
Day by day, we are shattering accepted notions of what is possible.
When I was growing up, we failed to see how a new thing called radio would transform our marketplace.
Well, today, many have not yet seen how advances in technology are transforming our lives.
In the late 1950's workers at the AT and T semiconductor plant in Pennsylvania produced five transistors a day for $7.
50 apiece.
They now produce over a million for less than a penny apiece.
New laser techniques could revolutionize heart bypass surgery, cut diagnosis time for viruses linked to cancer from weeks to minutes, reduce hospital costs dramatically, and hold out new promise for saving human lives.
Our automobile industry has overhauled assembly lines, increased worker productivity, and is competitive once again.
We stand on the threshold of a great ability to produce more, do more, be more.
Our economy is not getting older and weaker; it is getting younger and stronger.
It does not need rest and supervision; it needs new challenge, greater freedom.
And that word freedom is the key to the second American revolution that we need to bring about.
Let us move together with an historic reform of tax simplification for fairness and growth.
Last year I asked Treasury Secretary-then-Regan to develop a plan to simplify the tax code, so all taxpayers would be treated more fairly and personal tax rates could come further down.
We have cut tax rates by almost 25 percent, yet the tax system remains unfair and limits our potential for growth.
Exclusions and exemptions cause similar incomes to be taxed at different levels.
Low-income families face steep tax barriers that make hard lives even harder.
The Treasury Department has produced an excellent reform plan, whose principles will guide the final proposal that we will ask you to enact.
One thing that tax reform will not be is a tax increase in disguise.
We will not jeopardize the mortgage interest deduction that families need.
We will reduce personal tax rates as low as possible by removing many tax preferences.
We will propose a top rate of no more than 35 percent, and possibly lower.
And we will propose reducing corporate rates, while maintaining incentives for capital formation.
To encourage opportunity and jobs rather than dependency and welfare, we will propose that individuals living at or near the poverty line be totally exempt from Federal income tax.
To restore fairness to families, we will propose increasing significantly the personal exemption.
And tonight, I am instructing Treasury Secretary James Baker  I have to get used to saying that  to begin working with congressional authors and committees for bipartisan legislation conforming to these principles.
We will call upon the American people for support and upon every man and woman in this Chamber.
Together, we can pass, this year, a tax bill for fairness, simplicity, and growth, making this economy the engine of our dreams and America the investment capital of the world.
So let us begin.
Tax simplification will be a giant step toward unleashing the tremendous pent-up power of our economy.
But a second American revolution must carry the promise of opportunity for all.
It is time to liberate the spirit of enterprise in the most distressed areas of our country.
This government will meet its responsibility to help those in need.
But policies that increase dependency, break up families, and destroy self-respect are not progressive; they are reactionary.
Despite our strides in civil rights, blacks, Hispanics, and all minorities will not have full and equal power until they have full economic power.
We have repeatedly sought passage of enterprise zones to help those in the abandoned corners of our land find jobs, learn skills, and build better lives.
This legislation is supported by a majority of you.
Speaker, I know we agree that 'there must be no forgotten Americans.
Let us place new dreams in a million hearts and create a new generation of entrepreneurs by passing enterprise zones this year.
And, Tip, you could make that a birthday present.
Nor must we lose the chance to pass our youth employment opportunity wage proposal.
We can help teenagers, who have the highest unemployment rate, find summer jobs, so they can know the pride of work and have confidence in their futures.
We'll continue to support the Job Training Partnership Act, which has a nearly two-thirds job placement rate.
Credits in education and health care vouchers will help working families shop for services that they need.
Our administration is already encouraging certain low-income public housing residents to own and manage their own dwellings.
It's time that all public housing residents have that opportunity of ownership.
The Federal Government can help create a new atmosphere of freedom.
But States and localities, many of which enjoy surpluses from the recovery, must not permit their tax and regulatory policies to stand as barriers to growth.
Let us resolve that we will stop spreading dependency and start spreading opportunity; that we will stop spreading bondage and start spreading freedom.
There are some who say that growth initiatives must await final action on deficit reductions.
Well, the best way to reduce deficits is through economic growth.
More businesses will be started, more investments made, more jobs created, and more people will be on payrolls paying taxes.
The best way to reduce government spending is to reduce the need for spending by increasing prosperity.
Each added percentage point per year of real GNP growth will lead to cumulative reduction in deficits of nearly $200 billion over 5 years.
To move steadily toward a balanced budget, we must also lighten government's claim on our total economy.
We will not do this by raising taxes.
We must make sure that our economy grows faster than the growth in spending by the Federal Government.
In our fiscal year 1986 budget, overall government program spending will be frozen at the current level.
It must not be one dime higher than fiscal year 1985, and three points are key.
First, the social safety net for the elderly, the needy, the disabled, and unemployed will be left intact.
Growth of our major health care programs, Medicare and Medicaid, will be slowed, but protections for the elderly and needy will be preserved.
Second, we must not relax our efforts to restore military strength just as we near our goal of a fully equipped, trained, and ready professional corps.
National security is government's first responsibility; so in past years defense spending took about half the Federal budget.
Today it takes less than a third.
We've already reduced our planned defense expenditures by nearly a hundred billion dollars over the past 4 years and reduced projected spending again this year.
You know, we only have a military-industrial complex until a time of danger, and then it becomes the arsenal of democracy.
Spending for defense is investing in things that are priceless  peace and freedom.
Third, we must reduce or eliminate costly government subsidies.
For example, deregulation of the airline industry has led to cheaper airfares, but on Amtrak taxpayers pay about $35 per passenger every time an Amtrak train leaves the station, It's time we ended this huge Federal subsidy.
Our farm program costs have quadrupled in recent years.
Yet I know from visiting farmers, many in great financial distress, that we need an orderly transition to a market-oriented farm economy.
We can help farmers best not by expanding Federal payments but by making fundamental reforms, keeping interest rates heading down, and knocking down foreign trade barriers to American farm exports.
We're moving ahead with Grace commission reforms to eliminate waste and improve government's management practices.
In the long run, we must protect the taxpayers from government.
And I ask again that you pass, as 32 States have now called for, an amendment mandating the Federal Government spend no more than it takes in.
And I ask for the authority, used responsibly by 43 Governors, to veto individual items in appropriation bills.
Senator Mattingly has introduced a bill permitting a 2-year trial run of the line-item veto.
I hope you will pass and send that legislation to my desk.
Nearly 50 years of government living beyond its means has brought us to a time of reckoning.
Ours is but a moment in history.
But one moment of courage, idealism, and bipartisan unity can change American history forever.
Sound monetary policy is key to long-running economic strength and stability.
We will continue to cooperate with the Federal Reserve Board, seeking a steady policy that ensures price stability without keeping interest rates artificially high or needlessly holding down growth.
Reducing unneeded red tape and regulations, and deregulating the energy, transportation, and financial industries have unleashed new competition, giving consumers more choices, better services, and lower prices.
In just one set of grant programs we have reduced 905 pages of regulations to 31.
We seek to fully deregulate natural gas to bring on new supplies and bring us closer to energy independence.
Consistent with safety standards, we will continue removing restraints on the bus and railroad industries, we will soon end up legislation  or send up legislation, I should say  to return Conrail to the private sector where it belongs, and we will support further deregulation of the trucking industry.
Every dollar the Federal Government does not take from us, every decision it does not make for us will make our economy stronger, our lives more abundant, our future more free.
Our second American revolution will push on to new possibilities not only on Earth but in the next frontier of space.
Despite budget restraints, we will seek record funding for research and development.
We've seen the success of the space shuttle.
Now we are going to develop a permanently manned space station and new opportunities for free enterprise, because in the next decade Americans and our friends around the world will be living and working together in space.
In the zero gravity of space, we could manufacture in 30 days lifesaving medicines it would take 30 years to make on Earth.
We can make crystals of exceptional purity to produce super computers, creating jobs, technologies, and medical breakthroughs beyond anything we ever dreamed possible.
As we do all this, we will continue to protect our natural resources.
We will seek reauthorization and expanded funding for the Superfund program to continue cleaning up hazardous waste sites which threaten human health and the environment.
Now, there is another great heritage to speak of this evening.
Of all the changes that have swept America the past 4 years, none brings greater promise than our rediscovery of the values of faith, freedom, family, work, and neighborhood.
We see signs of renewal in increased attendance in places of worship; renewed optimism and faith in our future; love of country rediscovered by our young, who are leading the way.
We've rediscovered that work is good in and of itself, that it ennobles us to create and contribute no matter how seemingly humble our jobs.
We've seen a powerful new current from an old and honorable tradition  American generosity.
From thousands answering Peace Corps appeals to help boost food production in Africa, to millions volunteering time, corporations adopting schools, and communities pulling together to help the neediest among us at home, we have refound our values.
Private sector initiatives are crucial to our future.
I thank the Congress for passing equal access legislation giving religious groups the same right to use classrooms after school that other groups enjoy.
But no citizen need tremble, nor the world shudder, if a child stands in a classroom and breathes a prayer.
We ask you again, give children back a right they had for a century and a half or more in this country.
The question of abortion grips our nation.
Abortion is either the taking of a human life or it is not.
And if it is  and medical technology is increasingly showing it is  it must be stopped.
It is a terrible irony that while some turn to abortion, so many others who cannot become parents cry out for children to adopt.
We have room for these children.
We can fill the cradles of those who want a child to love.
And tonight I ask you in the Congress to move this year on legislation to protect the unborn.
In the area of education, we are returning to excellence, and again, the heroes are our people, not government.
We're stressing basics of discipline, rigorous testing, and homework, while helping children become computer-smart as well.
For 20 years scholastic aptitude test scores of our high school students went down, but now they have gone up 2 of the last 3 years.
We must go forward in our commitment to the new basics, giving parents greater authority and making sure good teachers are rewarded for hard work and achievement through merit pay.
Of all the changes in the past 20 years, none has more threatened our sense of national well-being than the explosion of violent crime.
One does not have to be attacked to be a victim.
The woman who must run to her car after shopping at night is a victim.
The couple draping their door with locks and chains are victims; as is the tired, decent cleaning woman who cannot ride a subway home without being afraid.
We do not seek to violate the rights of defendants.
But should not we feel more compassion for the victims of crime than for those who commit crime? For the first time in 20 years, the crime index has fallen 2 years in a row.
We've convicted over 7,400 drug offenders and put them, as well as leaders of organized crime, behind bars in record numbers.
But we must do more.
I urge the House to follow the Senate and enact proposals permitting use of all reliable evidence that police officers acquire in good faith.
These proposals would also reform the habeas corpus laws and allow, in keeping with the will of the overwhelming majority of Americans, the use of the death penalty where necessary.
There can be no economic revival in ghettos when the most violent among us are allowed to roam free.
It's time we restored domestic tranquility.
And we mean to do just that.
Just as we are positioned as never before to secure justice in our economy, we are poised as never before to create a safer, freer, more peaceful world.
Our alliances are stronger than ever.
Our economy is stronger than ever.
We have resumed our historic role as a leader of the free world.
And all of these together are a great force for peace.
Since 1981 we have been committed to seeking fair and verifiable arms agreements that would lower the risk of war and reduce the size of nuclear arsenals.
Now our determination to maintain a strong defense has influenced the Soviet Union to return to the bargaining table.
Our negotiators must be able to go to that table with the united support of the American people.
All of us have no greater dream than to see the day when nuclear weapons are banned from this Earth forever.
Each Member of the Congress has a role to play in modernizing our defenses, thus supporting our chances for a meaningful arms agreement.
Your vote this spring on the Peacekeeper missile will be a critical test of our resolve to maintain the strength we need and move toward mutual and verifiable arms reductions.
For the past 20 years we have believed that no war will be launched as long as each side knows it can retaliate with a deadly counterstrike.
Well, I believe there is a better way of eliminating the threat of nuclear war.
It is a Strategic Defense Initiative aimed ultimately at finding a nonnuclear defense against ballistic missiles.
It's the most hopeful possibility of the nuclear age.
But it is not very well understood.
Some say it will bring war to the heavens, but its purpose is to deter war in the heavens and on Earth.
Now, some say the research would be expensive.
Perhaps, but it could save millions of lives, indeed humanity itself.
And some say if we build such a system, the Soviets will build a defense system of their own.
Well, they already have strategic defenses that surpass ours; a civil defense system, where we have almost none; and a research program covering roughly the same areas of technology that we are now exploring.
And finally some say the research will take a long time.
Well, the answer to that is: Let's get started.
Harry Truman once said that, ultimately, our security and the world's hopes for peace and human progress lie not in measures of defense or in the control of weapons, but in the growth and expansion of freedom and self-government.
And tonight, we declare anew to our fellow citizens of the world: Freedom is not the sole prerogative of a chosen few; it is the universal right of all God's children.
Look to where peace and prosperity flourish today.
It is in homes that freedom built.
Victories against poverty are greatest and peace most secure where people live by laws that ensure free press, free speech, and freedom to worship, vote, and create wealth.
Our mission is to nourish and defend freedom and democracy, and to communicate these ideals everywhere we can.
America's economic success is freedom's success; it can be repeated a hundred times in a hundred different nations.
Many countries in east Asia and the Pacific have few resources other than the enterprise of their own people.
But through low tax rates and free markets they have soared ahead of centralized economies.
And now China is opening up its economy to meet its needs.
We need a stronger and simpler approach to the process of making and implementing trade policy, and we will be studying potential changes in that process in the next few weeks.
We've seen the benefits of free trade and lived through the disasters of protectionism.
Tonight I ask all our trading partners, developed and developing alike, to join us in a new round of trade negotiations to expand trade and competition and strengthen the global economy  and to begin it in this next year.
There are more than 3 billion human beings living in Third World countries with an average per capita income of $650 a year.
Many are victims of dictatorships that impoverished them with taxation and corruption.
Let us ask our allies to join us in a practical program of trade and assistance that fosters economic development through personal incentives to help these people climb from poverty on their own.
We cannot play innocents abroad in a world that is not innocent; nor can we be passive when freedom is under siege.
Without resources, diplomacy cannot succeed.
Our security assistance programs help friendly governments defend themselves and give them confidence to work for peace.
And I hope that you in the Congress will understand that, dollar for dollar, security assistance contributes as much to global security as our own defense budget.
We must stand by all our democratic allies.
And we must not break faith with those who are risking their lives  on every continent, from Afghanistan to Nicaragua  to defy Soviet-supported aggression and secure rights which have been ours from birth.
The Sandinista dictatorship of Nicaragua, with full Cuban-Soviet bloc support, not only persecutes its people, the church, and denies a free press, but arms and provides bases for Communist terrorists attacking neighboring states.
Support for freedom fighters is self-defense and totally consistent with the OAS and U.
N.
Charters.
It is essential that the Congress continue all facets of our assistance to Central America.
I want to work with you to support the democratic forces whose struggle is tied to our own security.
And tonight, I have spoken of great plans and great dreams.
They're dreams we can make come true.
Two hundred years of American history should have taught us that nothing is impossible.
Ten years ago a young girl left Vietnam with her family, part of the exodus that followed the fall of Saigon.
They came to the United States with no possessions and not knowing a word of English.
Ten years ago  the young girl studied hard, learned English, and finished high school in the top of her class.
And this May, May 22d to be exact, is a big date on her calendar.
Just 10 years from the time she left Vietnam, she will graduate from the United States Military Academy at West Point.
I thought you might like to meet an American hero named Jean Nguyen.
Now, there is someone else here tonight, born 79 years ago.
She lives in the inner city, where she cares for infants born of mothers who are heroin addicts.
The children, born in withdrawal, are sometimes even dropped on her doorstep.
She helps them with love.
Go to her house some night, and maybe you will see her silhouette against the window as she walks the floor talking softly, soothing a child in her arms-Mother Hale of Harlem, and she, too, is an American hero.
Jean, Mother Hale, your lives tell us that the oldest American saying is new again: Anything is possible in America if we have the faith, the will, and the heart.
History is asking us once again to be a force for good in the world.
Let us begin in unity, with justice, and love.
Thank you, and God bless you.
Chancellor Kohl and honored guests, this painful walk into the past has done much more than remind us of the war that consumed the European Continent.
What we have seen makes unforgettably clear that no one of the rest of us can fully understand the enormity of the feelings carried by the victims of these camps.
The survivors carry a memory beyond anything that we can comprehend.
The awful evil started by one man, an evil that victimized all the world with its destruction, was uniquely destructive of the millions forced into the grim abyss of these camps.
Here lie people  Jews  whose death was inflicted for no reason other than their very existence.
Their pain was borne only because of who they were and because of the God in their prayers.
Alongside them lay many Christians  Catholics and Protestants.
For year after year, until that man and his evil were destroyed, hell yawned forth its awful contents.
People were brought here for no other purpose but to suffer and die  to go unfed when hungry, uncared for when sick, tortured when the whim struck, and left to have misery consume them when all there was around them was misery.
I am sure we all share similar first thoughts, and that is: What of the youngsters who died at this dark stalag? All was gone for them forever  not to feel again the warmth of life's sunshine and promise, not the laughter and the splendid ache of growing up, nor the consoling embrace of a family.
Try to think of being young and never having a day without searing emotional and physical pain  desolate, unrelieved pain.
Today, we have been grimly reminded why the commandant of this camp was named the Beast of Belsen.
Above all, we are struck by the horror of it all  the monstrous, incomprehensible horror.
And that is what we have seen but is what we can never understand as the victims did.
Nor with all our compassion can we feel what the survivors feel to this day and what they will feel as long as they live.
What we have felt and are expressing with words cannot convey the suffering that they endured.
That is why history will forever brand what happened as the Holocaust.
Here, death ruled, but we have learned something as well.
Because of what happened, we found that death cannot rule forever, and that is why we are here today.
We're here because humanity refuses to accept that freedom of the spirit of man can ever be extinguished.
We're here to commemorate that life triumphed over the tragedy and the death of the Holocaust  overcame the suffering, the sickness, the testing and, yes, the gassings.
We're here today to confirm that the horror cannot outlast hope, and that even from the worst of all things, the best may come forth.
Therefore, even out of this overwhelming sadness, there must be some purpose, and there is.
It comes to us through the transforming love of God.
We learn from the Talmud that: It was only through suffering that the children of Israel obtained three priceless and coveted gifts: The Torah, the Land of Israel, and the World to Come.
Yes, out of this sickness  as crushing and cruel as it was  there was hope for the world as well as for the world to come.
Out of the ashes  hope, and from all the pain  promise.
So much of this is symbolized today by the fact that most of the leadership of free Germany is represented here today.
Chancellor Kohl, you and your countrymen have made real the renewal that had to happen.
Your nation and the German people have been strong and resolute in your willingness to confront and condemn the acts of a hated regime of the past.
This reflects the courage of your people and their devotion to freedom and justice since the war.
Think how far we have come from that time when despair made these tragic victims wonder if anything could survive.
As we flew here from Hanover, low over the greening farms and the emerging springtime of the lovely German countryside, I reflected, and there must have been a time when the prisoners at Bergen-Belsen and those of every other camp must have felt the springtime was gone forever from their lives.
Surely we can understand that when we see what is around us  all these children of God under bleak and lifeless mounds, the plainness of which does not even hint at the unspeakable acts that created them.
Here they lie, never to hope, never to pray, never to love, never to heal, never to laugh, never to cry.
And too many of them knew that this was their fate, but that was not the end.
Through it all was their faith and a spirit that moved their faith.
Nothing illustrates this better than the story of a young girl who died here at Bergen-Belsen.
For more than 2 years Anne Frank and her family had hidden from the Nazis in a confined annex in Holland where she kept a remarkably profound diary.
Betrayed by an informant, Anne and her family were sent by freight car first to Auschwitz and finally here to Bergen-Belsen.
Just 3 weeks before her capture, young Anne wrote these words: It's really a wonder that I have not dropped all my ideals because they seem so absurd and impossible to carry out.
Yet I keep them because in spite of everything I still believe that people are good at heart.
I simply cannot build up my hopes on a foundation consisting of confusion, misery, and death.
I see the world gradually being turned into a wilderness.
I hear the ever approaching thunder which will destroy us too; I can feel the suffering of millions and yet, if I looked up into the heavens I think that it will all come right, that this cruelty too will end and that peace and tranquility will return again.
Eightmonths later, this sparkling young life ended here at Bergen-Belsen.
Somewhere here lies Anne Frank.
Everywhere here are memories  pulling us, touching us, making us understand that they can never be erased.
Such memories take us where God intended His children to go  toward learning, toward healing, and, above all, toward redemption.
They beckon us through the endless stretches of our heart to the knowing commitment that the life of each individual can change the world and make it better.
We're all witnesses; we share the glistening hope that rests in every human soul.
Hope leads us, if we are prepared to trust it, toward what our President Lincoln called the better angels of our nature.
And then, rising above all this cruelty, out of this tragic and nightmarish time, beyond the anguish, the pain and the suffering for all time, we can and must pledge: Never again.
Speaker,  President, Members of the Congress, distinguished guests, and my fellow Americans:It's great to be home, and Nancy and I thank you for this wonderful homecoming.
And before I go on, I want to say a personal thank you to Nancy.
She was an outstanding Ambassador of good will for all of us.
She did not know I was going to say that.
Speaker, Senator Dole, I want you to know that your statements of support here were greatly appreciated.
You cannot imagine how much it means in dealing with the Soviets to have the Congress, the allies, and the American people firmly behind you.
I guess you know that I have just come from Geneva and talks with General Secretary Gorbachev.
In the past few days, the past 2 days, we spent over 15 hours in various meetings with the General Secretary and the members of his official party.
And approximately 5 of those hours were talks between  Gorbachev and myself, just one on one.
That was the best part  our fireside summit.
There will be, I know, a great deal of commentary and opinion as to what the meetings produced and what they were like.
There were over 3,000 reporters in Geneva, so it is possible there will be 3,000 opinions on what happened.
So, maybe it is the old broadcaster in me, but I decided to file my own report directly to you.
We met, as we had to meet.
I called for a fresh start, and we made that start.
I cannot claim that we had a meeting of the minds on such fundamentals as ideology or national purpose, but we understand each other better, and that is a key to peace.
I gained a better perspective; I feel he did, too.
It was a constructive meeting; so constructive, in fact, that I look forward to welcoming  Gorbachev to the United States next year.
And I have accepted his invitation to go to Moscow the following year.
We arranged that out in the parking lot.
I found  Gorbachev to be an energetic defender of Soviet policy.
He was an eloquent speaker and a good listener.
Our subject matter was shaped by the facts of this century.
These past 40 years have not been an easy time for the West or for the world.
You know the facts; there is no need to recite the historical record.
Suffice it to say that the United States cannot afford illusions about the nature of the U.
SS R.
We cannot assume that their ideology and purpose will change; this implies enduring competition.
Our task is to assure that this competition remains peaceful.
With all that divides us, we cannot afford to let confusion complicate things further.
We must be clear with each other and direct.
We must pay each other the tribute of candor.
When I took the oath of office for the first time, we began dealing with the Soviet Union in a way that was more realistic than in, say, the recent past.
And so, in a very real sense, preparations for the summit started not months ago, but 5 years ago when, with the help of Congress, we began strengthening our economy, restoring our national will, and rebuilding our defenses and alliances.
America is once again strong, and our strength has given us the ability to speak with confidence and see that no true opportunity to advance freedom and peace is lost.
We must not now abandon policies that work.
I need your continued support to keep America strong.
That is the history behind the Geneva summit, and that is the context in which it occurred.
And may I add that we were especially eager that our meetings give a push to important talks already underway on reducing nuclear weapons.
On this subject it would be foolish not to go the extra mile or, in this case, the extra 4,000 miles.
We discussed the great issues of our time.
I made clear before the first meeting that no question would be swept aside, no issue buried, just because either side found it uncomfortable or inconvenient.
I brought these questions to the summit and put them before  Gorbachev.
We discussed nuclear arms and how to reduce them.
I explained our proposals for equitable, verifiable, and deep reductions.
I outlined my conviction that our proposals would make not just for a world that feels safer, but one that really is safer.
I am pleased to report tonight that General Secretary Gorbachev and I did make a measure of progress here.
We have a long way to go, but we are still heading in the right direction.
We moved arms control forward from where we were last January, when the Soviets returned to the table.
We are both instructing our negotiators to hasten their vital work.
The world is waiting for results.
Specifically, we agreed in Geneva that each side should move to cut offensive nuclear arms by 50 percent in appropriate categories.
In our joint statement we called for early progress on this, turning the talks toward our chief goal  offensive reductions.
We called for an interim accord on intermediate-range nuclear forces, leading, I hope, to the complete elimination of this class of missiles  and all of this with tough verification.
We also made progress in combating, together, the spread of nuclear weapons, an arms control area in which we have cooperated effectively over the years.
We are also opening a dialog on combating the spread and use of chemical weapons, while moving to ban them altogether.
Other arms control dialogs  in Vienna on conventional forces and in Stockholm on lessening the chances for surprise attack in Europe  also received a boost.
And finally, we agreed to begin work on risk reduction centers, a decision that should give special satisfaction to Senators Nunn and Warner who so ably promoted this idea.
I described our Strategic Defense Initiative, our research effort, that envisions the possibility of defensive systems which could ultimately protect all nations against the danger of nuclear war.
This discussion produced a very direct exchange of views.
Gorbachev insisted that we might use a strategic defense system to put offensive weapons into space and establish nuclear superiority.
I made it clear that SDI has nothing to do with offensive weapons; that, instead, we are investigating nonnuclear defense systems that would only threaten offensive missiles, not people.
If our research succeeds, it will bring much closer the safer, more stable world that we seek.
Nations could defend themselves against missile attack and mankind, at long last, escape the prison of mutual terror.
And this is my dream.
So, I welcomed the chance to tell  Gorbachev that we are a nation that defends, rather than attacks; that our alliances are defensive, not offensive.
We do not seek nuclear superiority.
We do not seek a first strike advantage over the Soviet Union.
Indeed, one of my fundamental arms control objectives is to get rid of first-strike weapons altogether.
This is why we have proposed a 50-percent reduction in the most threatening nuclear weapons, especially those that could carry out a first strike.
I went further in expressing our peaceful intentions.
I described our proposal in the Geneva negotiations for a reciprocal program of open laboratories in strategic defense research.
We're offering to permit Soviet experts to see firsthand that SDI does not involve offensive weapons.
American scientists would be allowed to visit comparable facilities of the Soviet strategic defense program, which, in fact, has involved much more than research for many years.
Finally, I reassured  Gorbachev on another point.
I promised that if our research reveals that a defense against nuclear missiles is possible, we would sit down with our allies and the Soviet Union to see how together we could replace all strategic ballistic missiles with such a defense, which threatens no one.
We discussed threats to the peace in several regions of the world.
I explained my proposals for a peace process to stop the wars in Afghanistan, Nicaragua, Ethiopia, Angola, and Cambodia  those places where insurgencies that speak for the people are pitted against regimes which obviously do not represent the will or the approval of the people.
I tried to be very clear about where our sympathies lie; I believe I succeeded.
We discussed human rights.
We Americans believe that history teaches no clearer lesson than this: Those countries which respect the rights of their own people tend, inevitably, to respect the rights of their neighbors.
Human rights, therefore, is not an abstract moral issue; it is a peace issue.
Finally, we discussed the barriers to communication between our societies, and I elaborated on my proposals for real people-to-people contacts on a wide scale.
Americans should know the people of the Soviet Union  their hopes and fears and the facts of their lives.
And citizens of the Soviet Union need to know of America's deep desire for peace and our unwavering attachment to freedom.
As you can see, our talks were wide ranging.
And let me at this point tell you what we agreed upon and what we did not.
We remain far apart on a number of issues, as had to be expected.
However, we reached agreement on a number of matters, and as I mentioned, we agreed to continue meeting, and this is important and very good.
There's always room for movement, action, and progress when people are talking to each other instead of about each other.
We've concluded a new agreement designed to bring the best of America's artists and academics to the Soviet Union.
The exhibits that will be included in this exchange are one of the most effective ways for the average Soviet citizen to learn about our way of life.
This agreement will also expand the opportunities for Americans to experience the Soviet people's rich cultural heritage, because their artists and academics will be coming here.
We've also decided to go forward with a number of people-to-people initiatives that will go beyond greater contact, not only between the political leaders of our two countries but our respective students, teachers, and others as well.
We have emphasized youth exchanges.
And this will help break down stereotypes, build friendships, and, frankly, provide an alternative to propaganda.
We've agreed to establish a new Soviet consulate in New York and a new American consulate in Kiev.
And this will bring a permanent U.
S.
presence to the Ukraine for the first time in decades.
And we have also, together with the Government of Japan, concluded a Pacific air safety agreement with the Soviet Union.
This is designed to set up cooperative measures to improve civil air safety in that region of the Pacific.
What happened before must never to be allowed to happen there again.
And as a potential way of dealing with the energy needs of the world of the future, we have also advocated international cooperation to explore the feasibility of developing fusion energy.
All of these steps are part of a long-term effort to build a more stable relationship with the Soviet Union.
No one ever said it could be easy, but we have come a long way.
As for Soviet expansionism in a number of regions of the world  while there is little chance of immediate change, we will continue to support the heroic efforts of those who fight for freedom.
But we have also agreed to continue, and to intensify, our meetings with the Soviets on this and other regional conflicts and to work toward political solutions.
We know the limits as well as the promise of summit meetings.
This is, after all, the 11th summit of the postwar era and still the differences endure.
But we believe continued meetings between the leaders of the United States and the Soviet Union can help bridge those differences.
The fact is, every new day begins with possibilities; it is up to us to fill it with the things that move us toward progress and peace.
Hope, therefore, is a realistic attitude and despair an uninteresting little vice.
And so, was our journey worthwhile? Well, 30 years ago, when Ike, President Eisenhower, had just returned from a summit in Geneva, he said,.
the wide gulf that separates so far East and West is wide and deep.
Well, today, three decades later, that is still true.
But, yes, this meeting was worthwhile for both sides.
A new realism spawned the summit.
The summit itself was a good start, and now our byword must be: steady as we go.
I am, as you are, impatient for results.
But good will and good hopes do not always yield lasting results, and quick fixes do not fix big problems.
Just as we must avoid illusions on our side, so we must dispel them on the Soviet side.
I have made it clear to  Gorbachev that we must reduce the mistrust and suspicions between us if we are to do such things as reduce arms, and this will take deeds, not words alone.
And I believe he is in agreement.
Where do we go from here? Well, our desire for improved relations is strong.
We're ready and eager for step-by-step progress.
We know that peace is not just the absence of war.
We do not want a phony peace or a frail peace.
We did not go in pursuit of some kind of illusory detente.
We cannot be satisfied with cosmetic improvements that will not stand the test of time.
We want real peace.
As I flew back this evening, I had many thoughts.
In just a few days families across America will gather to celebrate Thanksgiving.
And again, as our forefathers who voyaged to America, we traveled to Geneva with peace as our goal and freedom as our guide.
For there can be no greater good than the quest for peace and no finer purpose than the preservation of freedom.
It is 350 years since the first Thanksgiving, when Pilgrims and Indians huddled together on the edge of an unknown continent.
And now here we are gathered together on the edge of an unknown future, but, like our forefathers, really not so much afraid, but full of hope and trusting in God, as ever.
Thank you for allowing me to talk to you this evening, and God bless you all.
Ladies and gentlemen, I had planned to speak to you tonight to report on the state of the Union, but the events of earlier today have led me to change those plans.
Today is a day for mourning and remembering.
Nancy and I are pained to the core by the tragedy of the shuttle Challenger.
We know we share this pain with all of the people of our country.
This is truly a national loss.
Nineteen years ago, almost to the day, we lost three astronauts in a terrible accident on the ground.
But we have never lost an astronaut in flight; we have never had a tragedy like this.
And perhaps we have forgotten the courage it took for the crew of the shuttle.
But they, the Challenger Seven, were aware of the dangers, but overcame them and did their jobs brilliantly.
We mourn seven heroes: Michael Smith, Dick Scobee, Judith Resnik, Ronald McNair, Ellison Onizuka, Gregory Jarvis, and Christa McAuliffe.
We mourn their loss as a nation together.
For the families of the seven, we cannot bear, as you do, the full impact of this tragedy.
But we feel the loss, and we are thinking about you so very much.
Your loved ones were daring and brave, and they had that special grace, that special spirit that says, Give me a challenge, and I will meet it with joy.
They had a hunger to explore the universe and discover its truths.
They wished to serve, and they did.
They served all of us.
We've grown used to wonders in this century.
It's hard to dazzle us.
But for 25 years the United States space program has been doing just that.
We've grown used to the idea of space, and perhaps we forget that we have only just begun.
We're still pioneers.
They, the members of the Challenger crew, were pioneers.
And I want to say something to the schoolchildren of America who were watching the live coverage of the shuttle's takeoff.
I know it is hard to understand, but sometimes painful things like this happen.
It's all part of the process of exploration and discovery.
It's all part of taking a chance and expanding man's horizons.
The future does not belong to the fainthearted; it belongs to the brave.
The Challenger crew was pulling us into the future, and we will continue to follow them.
I have always had great faith in and respect for our space program, and what happened today does nothing to diminish it.
We do not hide our space program.
We do not keep secrets and cover things up.
We do it all up front and in public.
That's the way freedom is, and we would not change it for a minute.
We'll continue our quest in space.
There will be more shuttle flights and more shuttle crews and, yes, more volunteers, more civilians, more teachers in space.
Nothing ends here; our hopes and our journeys continue.
I want to add that I wish I could talk to every man and woman who works for NASA or who worked on this mission and tell them: Your dedication and professionalism have moved and impressed us for decades.
And we know of your anguish.
We share it.
There's a coincidence today.
On this day 390 years ago, the great explorer Sir Francis Drake died aboard ship off the coast of Panama.
In his lifetime the great frontiers were the oceans, and an historian later said, He lived by the sea, died on it, and was buried in it.
Well, today we can say of the Challenger crew: Their dedication was, like Drake's, complete.
The crew of the space shuttle Challenger honored us by the manner in which they lived their lives.
We will never forget them, nor the last time we saw them, this morning, as they prepared for their journey and waved goodbye and slipped the surly bonds of earth to touch the face of God.
Speaker,  President, distinguished Members of the Congress, honored guests, and fellow citizens:Thank you for allowing me to delay my address until this evening.
We paused together to mourn and honor the valor of our seven Challenger heroes.
And I hope that we are now ready to do what they would want us to do: Go forward, America, and reach for the stars.
We will never forget those brave seven, but we shall go forward.
Speaker, before I begin my prepared remarks, may I point out that tonight marks the 10th and last State of the Union Message that you have presided over.
And on behalf of the American people, I want to salute you for your service to Congress and country.
Here's to you! I have come to review with you the progress of our nation, to speak of unfinished work, and to set our sights on the future.
I am pleased to report the state of our Union is stronger than a year ago and growing stronger each day.
Tonight we look out on a rising America, firm of heart, united in spirit, powerful in pride and patriotism.
America is on the move! But it was not long ago that we looked out on a different land: locked factory gates, long gasoline lines, intolerable prices, and interest rates turning the greatest country on Earth into a land of broken dreams.
Government growing beyond our consent had become a lumbering giant, slamming shut the gates of opportunity, threatening to crush the very roots of our freedom.
What brought America back? The American people brought us back with quiet courage and common sense, with undying faith that in this nation under God the future will be ours; for the future belongs to the free.
Tonight the American people deserve our thanks for 37 straight months of economic growth, for sunrise firms and modernized industries creating 9 million new jobs in 3 years, interest rates cut in half, inflation falling over from 12 percent in 1980 to under 4 today, and a mighty river of good works-a record $74 billion in voluntary giving just last year alone.
And despite the pressures of our modern world, family and community remain the moral core of our society, guardians of our values and hopes for the future.
Family and community are the costars of this great American comeback.
They are why we say tonight: Private values must be at the heart of public policies.
What is true for families in America is true for America in the family of free nations.
History is no captive of some inevitable force.
History is made by men and women of vision and courage.
Tonight freedom is on the march.
The United States is the economic miracle, the model to which the world once again turns.
We stand for an idea whose time is now: Only by lifting the weights from the shoulders of all can people truly prosper and can peace among all nations be secure.
Teddy Roosevelt said that a nation that does great work lives forever.
We have done well, but we cannot stop at the foothills when Everest beckons.
It's time for America to be all that we can be.
We speak tonight of an agenda for the future, an agenda for a safer, more secure world.
And we speak about the necessity for actions to steel us for the challenges of growth, trade, and security in the next decade and the year 2000.
And we will do it  not by breaking faith with bedrock principles but by breaking free from failed policies.
Let us begin where storm clouds loom darkest  right here in Washington, DC This week I will send you our detailed proposals; tonight let us speak of our responsibility to redefine government's role: not to control, not to demand or command, not to contain us, but to help in times of need and, above all, to create a ladder of opportunity to full employment so that all Americans can climb toward economic power and justice on their own.
But we cannot win the race to the future shackled to a system that cannot even pass a Federal budget.
We cannot win that race held back by horse-and-buggy programs that waste tax dollars and squander human potential.
We cannot win that race if we are swamped in a sea of red ink.
Now,  Speaker, you know, I know, and the American people know the Federal budget system is broken.
It does not work.
Before we leave this city, let us you and I work together to fix it, and then we can finally give the American people a balanced budget.
Members of Congress, passage of Gramm-Rudman-Hollings gives us an historic opportunity to achieve what has eluded our national leadership for decades: forcing the Federal Government to live within its means.
Your schedule now requires that the budget resolution be passed by April 15th, the very day America's families have to foot the bill for the budgets that you produce.
How often we read of a husband and wife both working, struggling from paycheck to paycheck to raise a family, meet a mortgage, pay their taxes and bills.
And yet some in Congress say taxes must be raised.
Well, I am sorry; they are asking the wrong people to tighten their belts.
It's time we reduce the Federal budget and left the family budget alone.
We do not face large deficits because American families are undertaxed; we face those deficits because the Federal Government overspends.
The detailed budget that we will submit will meet the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings target for deficit reductions, meet our commitment to ensure a strong national defense, meet our commitment to protect Social Security and the truly less fortunate, and, yes, meet our commitment to not raise taxes.
How should we accomplish this? Well, not by taking from those in need.
As families take care of their own, government must provide shelter and nourishment for those who cannot provide for themselves.
But we must revise or replace programs enacted in the name of compassion that degrade the moral worth of work, encourage family breakups, and drive entire communities into a bleak and heartless dependency.
Gramm-Rudman-Hollings can mark a dramatic improvement.
But experience shows that simply setting deficit targets does not assure they will be met.
We must proceed with Grace commission reforms against waste.
And tonight I ask you to give me what 43 Governors have: Give me a line-item veto this year.
Give me the authority to veto waste, and I will take the responsibility, I will make the cuts, I will take the heat.
This authority would not give me any monopoly power, but simply prevent spending measures from sneaking through that could not pass on their own merit.
And you can sustain or override my veto; that is the way the system should work.
Once we have made the hard choices, we should lock in our gains with a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution.
I mentioned that we will meet our commitment to national defense.
We must meet it.
Defense is not just another budget expense.
Keeping America strong, free, and at peace is solely the responsibility of the Federal Government; it is government's prime responsibility.
We have devoted 5 years trying to narrow a dangerous gap born of illusion and neglect, and we have made important gains.
Yet the threat from Soviet forces, conventional and strategic, from the Soviet drive for domination, from the increase in espionage and state terror remains great.
This is reality.
Closing our eyes will not make reality disappear.
We pledged together to hold real growth in defense spending to the bare minimum.
My budget honors that pledge, and I am now asking you, the Congress, to keep its end of the bargain.
The Soviets must know that if America reduces her defenses, it will be because of a reduced threat, not a reduced resolve.
Keeping America strong is as vital to the national security as controlling Federal spending is to our economic security.
But, as I have said before, the most powerful force we can enlist against the Federal deficit is an ever-expanding American economy, unfettered and free.
The magic of opportunity-unreserved, unfailing, unrestrained-is not this the calling that unites us? I believe our tax rate cuts for the people have done more to spur a spirit of risk-taking and help America's economy break free than any program since John Kennedy's tax cut almost a quarter century ago.
Now history calls us to press on, to complete efforts for an historic tax reform providing new opportunity for all and ensuring that all pay their fair share, but no more.
We've come this far.
Will you join me now, and we will walk this last mile together? You know my views on this.
We cannot and we will not accept tax reform that is a tax increase in disguise.
True reform must be an engine of productivity and growth, and that means a top personal rate no higher than 35 percent.
True reform must be truly fair, and that means raising personal exemptions to $2,000.
True reform means a tax system that at long last is profamily, projobs, profuture, and pro-America.
As we knock down the barriers to growth, we must redouble our efforts for freer and fairer trade.
We have already taken actions to counter unfair trading practices and to pry open closed foreign markets.
We will continue to do so.
We will also oppose legislation touted as providing protection that in reality pits one American worker against another, one industry against another, one community against another, and that raises prices for us all.
If the United States can trade with other nations on a level playing field, we can outproduce, outcompete, and outsell anybody, anywhere in the world.
The constant expansion of our economy and exports requires a sound and stable dollar at home and reliable exchange rates around the world.
We must never again permit wild currency swings to cripple our farmers and other exporters.
Farmers, in particular, have suffered from past unwise government policies.
They must not be abandoned with problems they did not create and cannot control.
We've begun coordinating economic and monetary policy among our major trading partners.
But there is more to do, and tonight I am directing Treasury Secretary Jim Baker to determine if the nations of the world should convene to discuss the role and relationship of our currencies.
Confident in our future and secure in our values, Americans are striving forward to embrace the future.
We see it not only in our recovery but in 3 straight years of falling crime rates, as families and communities band together to fight pornography, drugs, and lawlessness and to give back to their children the safe and, yes, innocent childhood they deserve.
We see it in the renaissance in education, the rising SAT scores for three years  last year's increase, the greatest since 1963.
It was not government and Washington lobbies that turned education around; it was the American people who, in reaching for excellence, knew to reach back to basics.
We must continue the advance by supporting discipline in our schools, vouchers that give parents freedom of choice; and we must give back to our children their lost right to acknowledge God in their classrooms.
We are a nation of idealists, yet today there is a wound in our national conscience.
America will never be whole as long as the right to life granted by our Creator is denied to the unborn.
For the rest of my time, I shall do what I can to see that this wound is one day healed.
As we work to make the American dream real for all, we must also look to the condition of America's families.
Struggling parents today worry how they will provide their children the advantages that their parents gave them.
In the welfare culture, the breakdown of the family, the most basic support system, has reached crisis proportions  female and child poverty, child abandonment, horrible crimes, and deteriorating schools.
After hundreds of billions of dollars in poverty programs, the plight of the poor grows more painful.
But the waste in dollars and cents pales before the most tragic loss: the sinful waste of human spirit and potential.
We can ignore this terrible truth no longer.
As Franklin Roosevelt warned 51 years ago, standing before this Chamber, he said, Welfare is a narcotic, a subtle destroyer of the human spirit.
And we must now escape the spider's web of dependency.
Tonight I am charging the White House Domestic Council to present me by December 1, 1986, an evaluation of programs and a strategy for immediate action to meet the financial, educational, social, and safety concerns of poor families.
I am talking about real and lasting emancipation, because the success of welfare should be judged by how many of its recipients become independent of welfare.
Further, after seeing how devastating illness can destroy the financial security of the family, I am directing the Secretary of Health and Human Services,  Otis Bowen, to report to me by year end with recommendations on how the private sector and government can work together to address the problems of affordable insurance for those whose life savings would otherwise be threatened when catastrophic illness strikes.
And tonight I want to speak directly to America's younger generation, because you hold the destiny of our nation in your hands.
With all the temptations young people face, it sometimes seems the allure of the permissive society requires superhuman feats of self-control.
But the call of the future is too strong, the challenge too great to get lost in the blind alleyways of dissolution, drugs, and despair.
Never has there been a more exciting time to be alive, a time of rousing wonder and heroic achievement.
As they said in the film Back to the Future, Where we are going, we do not need roads.
Well, today physicists peering into the infinitely small realms of subatomic particles find reaffirmations of religious faith.
Astronomers build a space telescope that can see to the edge of the universe and possibly back to the moment of creation.
So, yes, this nation remains fully committed to America's space program.
We're going forward with our shuttle flights.
We're going forward to build our space station.
And we are going forward with research on a new Orient Express that could, by the end of the next decade, take off from Dulles Airport , accelerate up to 25 times the speed of sound, attaining low Earth orbit or flying to Tokyo within 2 hours.
And the same technology transforming our lives can solve the greatest problem of the 20th century.
A security shield can one day render nuclear weapons obsolete and free mankind from the prison of nuclear terror.
America met one historic challenge and went to the Moon.
Now America must meet another: to make our strategic defense real for all the citizens of planet Earth.
Let us speak of our deepest longing for the future: to leave our children a land that is free and just and a world at peace.
It is my hope that our fireside summit in Geneva and  Gorbachev's upcoming visit to America can lead to a more stable relationship.
Surely no people on Earth hate war or love peace more than we Americans.
But we cannot stroll into the future with childlike faith.
Our differences with a system that openly proclaims and practices an alleged right to command people's lives and to export its ideology by force are deep and abiding.
Logic and history compel us to accept that our relationship be guided by realism  rock-hard, cleareyed, steady, and sure.
Our negotiators in Geneva have proposed a radical cut in offensive forces by each side with no cheating.
They have made clear that Soviet compliance with the letter and spirit of agreements is essential.
If the Soviet Government wants an agreement that truly reduces nuclear arms, there will be such an agreement.
But arms control is no substitute for peace.
We know that peace follows in freedom's path and conflicts erupt when the will of the people is denied.
So, we must prepare for peace not only by reducing weapons but by bolstering prosperity, liberty, and democracy however and wherever we can.
We advance the promise of opportunity every time we speak out on behalf of lower tax rates, freer markets, sound currencies around the world.
We strengthen the family of freedom every time we work with allies and come to the aid of friends under siege.
And we can enlarge the family of free nations if we will defend the unalienable rights of all God's children to follow their dreams.
To those imprisoned in regimes held captive, to those beaten for daring to fight for freedom and democracy  for their right to worship, to speak, to live, and to prosper in the family of free nations  we say to you tonight: You are not alone, freedom fighters.
America will support with moral and material assistance your right not just to fight and die for freedom but to fight and win freedom  to win freedom in Afghanistan, in Angola, in Cambodia, and in Nicaragua.
This is a great moral challenge for the entire free world.
Surely no issue is more important for peace in our own hemisphere, for the security of our frontiers, for the protection of our vital interests, than to achieve democracy in Nicaragua and to protect Nicaragua's democratic neighbors.
This year I will be asking Congress for the means to do what must be done for that great and good cause.
As  Scoop Jackson, the inspiration for our Bipartisan Commission on Central America, once said, In matters of national security, the best politics is no politics.
What we accomplish this year, in each challenge we face, will set our course for the balance of the decade, indeed, for the remainder of the century.
After all we have done so far, let no one say that this nation cannot reach the destiny of our dreams.
America believes, America is ready, America can win the race to the future  and we shall.
The American dream is a song of hope that rings through night winter air; vivid, tender music that warms our hearts when the least among us aspire to the greatest things: to venture a daring enterprise; to unearth new beauty in music, literature, and art; to discover a new universe inside a tiny silicon chip or a single human cell.
We see the dream coming true in the spirit of discovery of Richard Cavoli.
All his life he is been enthralled by the mysteries of medicine.
And, Richard, we know that the experiment that you began in high school was launched and lost last week, yet your dream lives.
And as long as it is real, work of noble note will yet be done, work that could reduce the harmful effects of x rays on patients and enable astronomers to view the golden gateways of the farthest stars.
We see the dream glow in the towering talent of a 12-year-old, Tyrone Ford.
A child prodigy of gospel music, he has surmounted personal adversity to become an accomplished pianist and singer.
He also directs the choirs of three churches and has performed at the Kennedy Center.
With God as your composer, Tyrone, your music will be the music of angels.
We see the dream being saved by the courage of the 13-year-old Shelby Butler, honor student and member of her school's safety patrol.
Seeing another girl freeze in terror before an out-of-control school bus, she risked her life and pulled her to safety.
With bravery like yours, Shelby, America need never fear for our future.
And we see the dream born again in the joyful compassion of a 13 year old, Trevor Ferrell.
Two years ago, age 11, watching men and women bedding down in abandoned doorways  on television he was watching  Trevor left his suburban Philadelphia home to bring blankets and food to the helpless and homeless.
And now 250 people help him fulfill his nightly vigil.
Trevor, yours is the living spirit of brotherly love.
Would you four stand up for a moment? Thank you, thank you.
You are heroes of our hearts.
We look at you and know it is true: In this land of dreams fulfilled, where greater dreams may be imagined, nothing is impossible, no victory is beyond our reach, no glory will ever be too great.
So, now it is up to us, all of us, to prepare America for that day when our work will pale before the greatness of America's champions in the 21st century.
The world's hopes rest with America's future; America's hopes rest with us.
So, let us go forward to create our world of tomorrow in faith, in unity, and in love.
God bless you, and God bless America.
My fellow Americans:At 7 of the clock this evening eastern time, air and naval forces of the United States launched a series of strikes against the headquarters, terrorist facilities, and military assets that support Mu'ammar Qadhafi's subversive activities.
The attacks were concentrated and carefully targeted to minimize casualties among the Libyan people with whom we have no quarrel.
From initial reports, our forces have succeeded in their mission.
Several weeks ago in New Orleans, I warned Colonel Qadhafi we would hold his regime accountable for any new terrorist attacks launched against American citizens.
More recently I made it clear we would respond as soon as we determined conclusively who was responsible for such attacks.
On April 5th in West Berlin a terrorist bomb exploded in a nightclub frequented by American servicemen.
Sergeant Kenneth Ford and a young Turkish woman were killed and 230 others were wounded, among them some 50 American military personnel.
This monstrous brutality is but the latest act in Colonel Qadhafi's reign of terror.
The evidence is now conclusive that the terrorist bombing of La Belle discotheque was planned and executed under the direct orders of the Libyan regime.
On March 25th, more than a week before the attack, orders were sent from Tripoli to the Libyan People's Bureau in East Berlin to conduct a terrorist attack against Americans to cause maximum and indiscriminate casualties.
Libya's agents then planted the bomb.
On April 4th the People's Bureau alerted Tripoli that the attack would be carried out the following morning.
The next day they reported back to Tripoli on the great success of their mission.
Our evidence is direct; it is precise; it is irrefutable.
We have solid evidence about other attacks Qadhafi has planned against the United States installations and diplomats and even American tourists.
Thanks to close cooperation with our friends, some of these have been prevented.
With the help of French authorities, we recently aborted one such attack: a planned massacre, using grenades and small arms, of civilians waiting in line for visas at an American Embassy.
Colonel Qadhafi is not only an enemy of the United States.
His record of subversion and aggression against the neighboring states in Africa is well documented and well known.
He has ordered the murder of fellow Libyans in countless countries.
He has sanctioned acts of terror in Africa, Europe, and the Middle East, as well as the Western Hemisphere.
Today we have done what we had to do.
If necessary, we shall do it again.
It gives me no pleasure to say that, and I wish it were otherwise.
Before Qadhafi seized power in 1969, the people of Libya had been friends of the United States.
And I am sure that today most Libyans are ashamed and disgusted that this man has made their country a synonym for barbarism around the world.
The Libyan people are a decent people caught in the grip of a tyrant.
To our friends and allies in Europe who cooperated in today's mission, I would only say you have the permanent gratitude of the American people.
Europeans who remember history understand better than most that there is no security, no safety, in the appeasement of evil.
It must be the core of Western policy that there be no sanctuary for terror.
And to sustain such a policy, free men and free nations must unite and work together.
Sometimes it is said that by imposing sanctions against Colonel Qadhafi or by striking at his terrorist installations we only magnify the man's importance, that the proper way to deal with him is to ignore him.
I do not agree.
Long before I came into this office, Colonel Qadhafi had engaged in acts of international terror, acts that put him outside the company of civilized men.
For years, however, he suffered no economic or political or military sanction; and the atrocities mounted in number, as did the innocent dead and wounded.
And for us to ignore by inaction the slaughter of American civilians and American soldiers, whether in nightclubs or airline terminals, is simply not in the American tradition.
When our citizens are abused or attacked anywhere in the world on the direct orders of a hostile regime, we will respond so long as I am in this Oval Office.
Self-defense is not only our right, it is our duty.
It is the purpose behind the mission undertaken tonight, a mission fully consistent with Article 51 of the United Nations Charter.
We believe that this preemptive action against his terrorist installations will not only diminish Colonel Qadhafi's capacity to export terror, it will provide him with incentives and reasons to alter his criminal behavior.
I have no illusion that tonight's action will ring down the curtain on Qadhafi's reign of terror.
But this mission, violent though it was, can bring closer a safer and more secure world for decent men and women.
We will persevere.
This afternoon we consulted with the leaders of Congress regarding what we were about to do and why.
Tonight I salute the skill and professionalism of the men and women of our Armed Forces who carried out this mission.
It's an honor to be your Commander in Chief.
We Americans are slow to anger.
We always seek peaceful avenues before resorting to the use of force  and we did.
We tried quiet diplomacy, public condemnation, economic sanctions, and demonstrations of military force.
None succeeded.
Despite our repeated warnings, Qadhafi continued his reckless policy of intimidation, his relentless pursuit of terror.
He counted on America to be passive.
He counted wrong.
I warned that there should be no place on Earth where terrorists can rest and train and practice their deadly skills.
I meant it.
I said that we would act with others, if possible, and alone if necessary to ensure that terrorists have no sanctuary anywhere.
Tonight, we have.
Thank you, and God bless you.
The President.
Good evening.
Usually, I talk with you from my office in the West Wing of the White House.
But tonight there is something special to talk about, and I have asked someone very special to join me.
Nancy and I are here in the West Hall of the White House, and around us are the rooms in which we live.
It's the home you have provided for us, of which we merely have temporary custody.
Nancy's joining me because the message this evening is not my message but ours.
And we speak to you not simply as fellow citizens but as fellow parents and grandparents and as concerned neighbors.
It's back-to-school time for America's children.
And while drug and alcohol abuse cuts across all generations, it is especially damaging to the young people on whom our future depends.
So tonight, from our family to yours, from our home to yours, thank you for joining us.
America has accomplished so much in these last few years, whether it is been rebuilding our economy or serving the cause of freedom in the world.
What we have been able to achieve has been done with your help  with us working together as a nation united.
Now, we need your support again.
Drugs are menacing our society.
They're threatening our values and undercutting our institutions.
They're killing our children.
From the beginning of our administration, we have taken strong steps to do something about this horror.
Tonight I can report to you that we have made much progress.
Thirty-seven federal agencies are working together in a vigorous national effort, and by next year our spending for drug law enforcement will have more than tripled from its 1981 levels.
We have increased seizures of illegal drugs.
Shortages of marijuana are now being reported.
Last year alone over 10,000 drug criminals were convicted and nearly $250 million of their assets were seized by the DEA, the Drug Enforcement Administration.
And in the most important area, individual use, we see progress.
In 4 years the number of high school seniors using marijuana on a daily basis has dropped from 1 in 14 to 1 in 20.
The U.
S.
military has cut the use of illegal drugs among its personnel by 67 percent since 1980.
These are a measure of our commitment and emerging signs that we can defeat this enemy.
But we still have much to do.
Despite our best efforts, illegal cocaine is coming into our country at alarming levels, and 4 to 5 million people regularly use it.
Five hundred thousand Americans are hooked on heroin.
One in twelve persons smokes marijuana regularly.
Regular drug use is even higher among the age group 18 to 25  most likely just entering the workforce.
Today there is a new epidemic: smokable cocaine, otherwise known as crack.
It is an explosively destructive and often lethal substance which is crushing its users.
It is an uncontrolled fire.
And drug abuse is not a so-called victimless crime.
Everyone's safety is at stake when drugs and excessive alcohol are used by people on the highways or by those transporting our citizens or operating industrial equipment.
Drug abuse costs you and your fellow Americans at least $60 billion a year.
From the early days of our administration, Nancy has been intensely involved in the effort to fight drug abuse.
She has since traveled over 100,000 miles to 55 cities in 28 States and 6 foreign countries to fight school-age drug and alcohol abuse.
She is given dozens of speeches and scores of interviews and has participated in 24 special radio and TV tapings to create greater awareness of this crisis.
Her personal observations and efforts have given her such dramatic insights that I wanted her to share them with you this evening.
Nancy.
Reagan.
Thank you.
As a mother, I have always thought of September as a special month, a time when we bundled our children off to school, to the warmth of an environment in which they could fulfill the promise and hope in those restless minds.
But so much has happened over these last years, so much to shake the foundations of all that we know and all that we believe in.
Today there is a drug and alcohol abuse epidemic in this country, and no one is safe from it  not you, not me, and certainly not our children, because this epidemic has their names written on it.
Many of you may be thinking: Well, drugs do not concern me.
But it does concern you.
It concerns us all because of the way it tears at our lives and because it is aimed at destroying the brightness and life of the sons and daughters of the United States.
For 5 years I have been traveling across the country  learning and listening.
And one of the most hopeful signs I have seen is the building of an essential, new awareness of how terrible and threatening drug abuse is to our society.
This was one of the main purposes when I started, so of course it makes me happy that that is been accomplished.
But each time I meet with someone new or receive another letter from a troubled person on drugs, I yearn to find a way to help share the message that cries out from them.
As a parent, I am especially concerned about what drugs are doing to young mothers and their newborn children.
Listen to this news account from a hospital in Florida of a child born to a mother with a cocaine habit: Nearby, a baby named Paul lies motionless in an incubator, feeding tubes riddling his tiny body.
He needs a respirator to breathe and a daily spinal tap to relieve fluid buildup on his brain.
Only 1 month old, he is already suffered 2 strokes.
Now you can see why drug abuse concerns every one of us  all the American family.
Drugs steal away so much.
They take and take, until finally every time a drug goes into a child, something else is forced out  like love and hope and trust and confidence.
Drugs take away the dream from every child's heart and replace it with a nightmare, and it is time we in America stand up and replace those dreams.
Each of us has to put our principles and consciences on the line, whether in social settings or in the workplace, to set forth solid standards and stick to them.
There's no moral middle ground.
Indifference is not an option.
We want you to help us create an outspoken intolerance for drug use.
For the sake of our children, I implore each of you to be unyielding and inflexible in your opposition to drugs.
Our young people are helping us lead the way.
Not long ago, in Oakland, California, I was asked by a group of children what to do if they were offered drugs, and I answered, Just say no.
Soon after that, those children in Oakland formed a Just Say No club, and now there are over 10,000 such clubs all over the country.
Well, their participation and their courage in saying no needs our encouragement.
We can help by using every opportunity to force the issue of not using drugs to the point of making others uncomfortable, even if it means making ourselves unpopular.
Our job is never easy because drug criminals are ingenious.
They work everyday to plot a new and better way to steal our children's lives, just as they have done by developing this new drug, crack.
For every door that we close, they open a new door to death.
They prosper on our unwillingness to act.
So, we must be smarter and stronger and tougher than they are.
It's up to us to change attitudes and just simply dry up their markets.
And finally, to young people watching or listening, I have a very personal message for you: There's a big, wonderful world out there for you.
It belongs to you.
It's exciting and stimulating and rewarding.
Don't cheat yourselves out of this promise.
Our country needs you, but it needs you to be clear-eyed and clear-minded.
I recently read one teenager's story.
She is now determined to stay clean but was once strung out on several drugs.
What she remembered most clearly about her recovery was that during the time she was on drugs everything appeared to her in shades of black and gray and after her treatment she was able to see colors again.
So, to my young friends out there: Life can be great, but not when you cannot see it.
So, open your eyes to life: to see it in the vivid colors that God gave us as a precious gift to His children, to enjoy life to the fullest, and to make it count.
Say yes to your life.
And when it comes to drugs and alcohol just say no.
The President.
I think you can see why Nancy has been such a positive influence on all that we are trying to do.
The job ahead of us is very clear.
Nancy's personal crusade, like that of so many other wonderful individuals, should become our national crusade.
It must include a combination of government and private efforts which complement one another.
Last month I announced six initiatives which we believe will do just that.
First, we seek a drug-free workplace at all levels of government and in the private sector.
Second, we will work toward drug-free schools.
Third, we want to ensure that the public is protected and that treatment is available to substance abusers and the chemically dependent.
Our fourth goal is to expand international cooperation while treating drug trafficking as a threat to our national security.
In October 1 will be meeting with key U.
S.
Ambassadors to discuss what can be done to support our friends abroad.
Fifth, we must move to strengthen law enforcement activities such as those initiated by Vice President Bush and Attorney General Meese.
And finally, we seek to expand public awareness and prevention.
In order to further implement these six goals, I will announce tomorrow a series of new proposals for a drug-free America.
Taken as a whole, these proposals will toughen our laws against drug criminals, encourage more research and treatment, and ensure that illegal drugs will not be tolerated in our schools or in our workplaces.
Together with our ongoing efforts, these proposals will bring the Federal commitment to fighting drugs to $3 billion.
As much financing as we commit, however, we would be fooling ourselves if we thought that massive new amounts of money alone will provide the solution.
Let us not forget that in America people solve problems and no national crusade has ever succeeded without human investment.
Winning the crusade against drugs will not be achieved by just throwing money at the problem.
Your government will continue to act aggressively, but nothing would be more effective than for Americans simply to quit using illegal drugs.
We seek to create a massive change in national attitudes which ultimately will separate the drugs from the customer, to take the user away from the supply.
I believe, quite simply, that we can help them quit, and that is where you come in.
My generation will remember how America swung into action when we were attacked in World War II The war was not just fought by the fellows flying the planes or driving the tanks.
It was fought at home by a mobilized nation  men and women alike  building planes and ships, clothing sailors and soldiers, feeding marines and airmen; and it was fought by children planting victory gardens and collecting cans.
Well, now we are in another war for our freedom, and it is time for all of us to pull together again.
So, for example, if your friend or neighbor or a family member has a drug or alcohol problem, do not turn the other way.
Go to his help or to hers.
Get others involved with you  clubs, service groups, and community organizations  and provide support and strength.
And, of course, many of you have been cured through treatment and self-help.
Well, you are the combat veterans, and you have a critical role to play.
You can help others by telling your story and providing a willing hand to those in need.
Being friends to others is the best way of being friends to ourselves.
It's time, as Nancy said, for America to just say no to drugs.
Those of you in union halls and workplaces everywhere: Please make this challenge a part of your job every day.
Help us preserve the health and dignity of all workers.
To businesses large and small: We need the creativity of your enterprise applied directly to this national problem.
Help us.
And those of you who are educators: Your wisdom and leadership are indispensable to this cause.
From the pulpits of this spirit-filled land: We would welcome your reassuring message of redemption and forgiveness and of helping one another.
On the athletic fields: You men and women are among the most beloved citizens of our country.
A child's eyes fill with your heroic achievements.
Few of us can give youngsters something as special and strong to look up to as you.
Please do not let them down.
And this camera in front of us: It's a reminder that in Nancy's and my former profession and in the newsrooms and production rooms of our media centers  you have a special opportunity with your enormous influence to send alarm signals across the Nation.
To our friends in foreign countries: We know many of you are involved in this battle with us.
We need your success as well as ours.
When we all come together, united, striving for this cause, then those who are killing America and terrorizing it with slow but sure chemical destruction will see that they are up against the mightiest force for good that we know.
Then they will have no dark alleyways to hide in.
In this crusade, let us not forget who we are.
Drug abuse is a repudiation of everything America is.
The destructiveness and human wreckage mock our heritage.
Think for a moment how special it is to be an American.
Can we doubt that only a divine providence placed this land, this island of freedom, here as a refuge for all those people on the world who yearn to breathe free?The revolution out of which our liberty was conceived signaled an historical call to an entire world seeking hope.
Each new arrival of immigrants rode the crest of that hope.
They came, millions seeking a safe harbor from the oppression of cruel regimes.
They came, to escape starvation and disease.
They came, those surviving the Holocaust and the Soviet gulags.
They came, the boat people, chancing death for even a glimmer of hope that they could have a new life.
They all came to taste the air redolent and rich with the freedom that is ours.
What an insult it will be to what we are and whence we came if we do not rise up together in defiance against this cancer of drugs.
And there is one more thing.
The freedom that so many seek in our land has not been preserved without a price.
Nancy and I shared that remembrance 2 years ago at the Normandy American Cemetery in France.
In the still of that June afternoon, we walked together among the soldiers of freedom, past the hundreds of white markers which are monuments to courage and memorials to sacrifice.
Too many of these and other such graves are the final resting places of teenagers who became men in the roar of battle.
Look what they gave to us who live.
Never would they see another sunlit day glistening off a lake or river back home or miles of corn pushing up against the open sky of our plains.
The pristine air of our mountains and the driving energy of our cities are theirs no more.
Nor would they ever again be a son to their parents or a father to their own children.
They did this for you, for me, for a new generation to carry our democratic experiment proudly forward.
Well, that is something I think we are obliged to honor, because what they did for us means that we owe as a simple act of civic stewardship to use our freedom wisely for the common good.
As we mobilize for this national crusade, I am mindful that drugs are a constant temptation for millions.
Please remember this when your courage is tested: You are Americans.
You're the product of the freest society mankind has ever known.
No one, ever, has the right to destroy your dreams and shatter your life.
Right down the end of this hall is the Lincoln Bedroom.
But in the Civil War that room was the one President Lincoln used as his office.
Memory fills that room, and more than anything that memory drives us to see vividly what President Lincoln sought to save.
Above all, it is that America must stand for something and that our heritage lets us stand with a strength of character made more steely by each layer of challenge pressed upon the Nation.
We Americans have never been morally neutral against any form of tyranny.
Tonight we are asking no more than that we honor what we have been and what we are by standing together.
Reagan.
Now we go on to the next stop: making a final commitment not to tolerate drugs by anyone, anytime, anyplace.
So, will not you join us in this great, new national crusade?The President.
God bless you, and good night.
Good evening.
As most of you know, I have just returned from meetings in Iceland with the leader of the Soviet Union, General Secretary Gorbachev.
As I did last year when I returned from the summit conference in Geneva, I want to take a few moments tonight to share with you what took place in these discussions.
The implications of these talks are enormous and only just beginning to be understood.
We proposed the most sweeping and generous arms control proposal in history.
We offered the complete elimination of all ballistic missiles  Soviet and American  from the face of the Earth by 1996.
While we parted company with this American offer still on the table, we are closer than ever before to agreements that could lead to a safer world without nuclear weapons.
But first, let me tell you that from the start of my meetings with  Gorbachev, I have always regarded you, the American people, as full participants.
Believe me, without your support none of these talks could have been held, nor could the ultimate aims of American foreign policy  world peace and freedom  be pursued.
And it is for these aims I went the extra mile to Iceland.
Before I report on our talks, though, allow me to set the stage by explaining two things that were very much a part of our talks: one a treaty and the other a defense against nuclear missiles, which we are trying to develop.
Now, you have heard their titles a thousand times  the ABM treaty and SDI Well those letters stand for: ABM, antiballistic missile; SDI, Strategic Defense Initiative.
Some years ago, the United States and the Soviet Union agreed to limit any defense against nuclear missile attacks to the emplacement in one location in each country of a small number of missiles capable of intercepting and shooting down incoming nuclear missiles, thus leaving our real defense  a policy called mutual assured destruction , meaning if one side launched a nuclear attack, the other side could retaliate.
And this mutual threat of destruction was believed to be a deterrent against either side striking first.
So here we sit, with thousands of nuclear warheads targeted on each other and capable of wiping out both our countries.
The Soviets deployed the few antiballistic missiles around Moscow as the treaty permitted.
Our country did not bother deploying because the threat of nationwide annihilation made such a limited defense seem useless.
For some years now we have been aware that the Soviets may be developing a nationwide defense.
They have installed a large, modern radar at Krasnoyarsk, which we believe is a critical part of a radar system designed to provide radar guidance for antiballistic missiles protecting the entire nation.
Now, this is a violation of the ABM treaty.
Believing that a policy of mutual destruction and slaughter of their citizens and ours was uncivilized, I asked our military, a few years ago, to study and see if there was a practical way to destroy nuclear missiles after their launch but before they can reach their targets, rather than to just destroy people.
Well, this is the goal for what we call SDI, and our scientists researching such a system are convinced it is practical and that several years down the road we can have such a system ready to deploy.
Now incidentally, we are not violating the ABM treaty, which permits such research.
If and when we deploy the treaty  also allows withdrawal from the treaty upon 6 months' notice.
SDI, let me make it clear, is a nonnuclear defense.
So, here we are at Iceland for our second such meeting.
In the first, and in the months in between, we have discussed ways to reduce and in fact eliminate nuclear weapons entirely.
We and the Soviets have had teams of negotiators in Geneva trying to work out a mutual agreement on how we could reduce or eliminate nuclear weapons.
And so far, no success.
On Saturday and Sunday, General Secretary Gorbachev and his foreign minister, Shevardnadze, and Secretary of State George Shultz and I met for nearly 10 hours.
We did not limit ourselves to just arms reductions.
We discussed what we call violation of human rights on the part of the Soviets  refusal to let people emigrate from Russia so they can practice their religion without being persecuted, letting people go to rejoin their families, husbands, and wives  separated by national borders  being allowed to reunite.
In much of this, the Soviet Union is violating another agreement  the Helsinki accords they had signed in 1975.
Yuriy Orlov, whose freedom we just obtained, was imprisoned for pointing out to his government its violations of that pact, its refusal to let citizens leave their country or return.
We also discussed regional matters such as Afghanistan, Angola, Nicaragua, and Cambodia.
But by their choice, the main subject was arms control.
We discussed the emplacement of intermediate-range missiles in Europe and Asia and seemed to be in agreement they could be drastically reduced.
Both sides seemed willing to find a way to reduce, even to zero, the strategic ballistic missiles we have aimed at each other.
This then brought up the subject of SDII offered a proposal that we continue our present research.
And if and when we reached the stage of testing, we would sign, now, a treaty that would permit Soviet observation of such tests.
And if the program was practical, we would both eliminate our offensive missiles, and then we would share the benefits of advanced defenses.
I explained that even though we would have done away with our offensive ballistic missiles, having the defense would protect against cheating or the possibility of a madman, sometime, deciding to create nuclear missiles.
After all, the world now knows how to make them.
I likened it to our keeping our gas masks, even though the nations of the world had outlawed poison gas after World War I.
We seemed to be making progress on reducing weaponry, although the General Secretary was registering opposition to SDI and proposing a pledge to observe ABM for a number of years as the day was ending.
Secretary Shultz suggested we turn over the notes our note-takers had been making of everything we had said to our respective teams and let them work through the night to put them together and find just where we were in agreement and what differences separated us.
With respect and gratitude, I can inform you those teams worked through the night till 6:30 a.
m.
Yesterday, Sunday morning,  Gorbachev and I, with our foreign ministers, came together again and took up the report of our two teams.
It was most promising.
The Soviets had asked for a 10-year delay in the deployment of SDI programs.
In an effort to see how we could satisfy their concerns  while protecting our principles and security  we proposed a 10-year period in which we began with the reduction of all strategic nuclear arms, bombers, airlaunched cruise missiles, intercontinental ballistic missiles, submarine-launched ballistic missiles and the weapons they carry.
They would be reduced 50 percent in the first five years.
During the next five years, we would continue by eliminating all remaining offensive ballistic missiles, of all ranges.
And during that time, we would proceed with research, development, and testing of SDI  all done in conformity with ABM provisions.
At the 10-year point, with all ballistic missiles eliminated, we could proceed to deploy advanced defenses, at the same time permitting the Soviets to do likewise.
And here the debate began.
The General Secretary wanted wording that, in effect, would have kept us from developing the SDI for the entire 10 years.
In effect, he was killing SDI And unless I agreed, all that work toward eliminating nuclear weapons would go down the drain  canceled.
I told him I had pledged to the American people that I would not trade away SDI, there was no way I could tell our people their government would not protect them against nuclear destruction.
I went to Reykjavik determined that everything was negotiable except two things: our freedom and our future.
I am still optimistic that a way will be found.
The door is open, and the opportunity to begin eliminating the nuclear threat is within reach.
So you can see, we made progress in Iceland.
And we will continue to make progress if we pursue a prudent, deliberate, and above all, realistic approach with the Soviets.
From the earliest days of our administration this has been our policy.
We made it clear we had no illusions about the Soviets or their ultimate intentions.
We were publicly candid about the critical, moral distinctions between totalitarianism and democracy.
We declared the principal objective of American foreign policy to be not just the prevention of war, but the extension of freedom.
And we stressed our commitment to the growth of democratic government and democratic institutions around the world.
And that is why we assisted freedom fighters who are resisting the imposition of totalitarian rule in Afghanistan, Nicaragua, Angola, Cambodia, and elsewhere.
And finally, we began work on what I believe most spurred the Soviets to negotiate seriously: rebuilding our military strength, reconstructing our strategic deterrence, and above all, beginning work on the Strategic Defense Initiative.
And yet, at the same time, we set out these foreign policy goals and began working toward them.
We pursued another of our major objectives: that of seeking means to lessen tensions with the Soviets and ways to prevent war and keep the peace.
Now, this policy is now paying dividends  one sign of this in Iceland was the progress on the issue of arms control.
For the first time in a long while, Soviet-American negotiations in the area of arms reductions are moving, and moving in the right direction-not just toward arms control, but toward arms reduction.
But for all the progress we made on arms reductions, we must remember there were other issues on the table in Iceland, issues that are fundamental.
As I mentioned, one such issue is human rights.
As President Kennedy once said, And is not peace, in the last analysis, basically a matter of human rights? I made it plain that the United States would not seek to exploit improvement in these matters for purposes of propaganda.
But I also made it plain, once again, that an improvement of the human condition within the Soviet Union is indispensable for an improvement in bilateral relations with the United States.
For a government that will break faith with its own people cannot be trusted to keep faith with foreign powers.
So, I told  Gorbachev  again in Reykjavik, as I had in Geneva  we Americans place far less weight upon the words that are spoken at meetings such as these than upon the deeds that follow.
When it comes to human rights and judging Soviet intentions, we are all from Missouri  you got to show us.
Another subject area we took up in Iceland also lies at the heart of the differences between the Soviet Union and America.
This is the issue of regional conflicts.
Summit meetings cannot make the American people forget what Soviet actions have meant for the peoples of Afghanistan, Central America, Africa, and Southeast Asia.
Until Soviet policies change, we will make sure that our friends in these areas  those who fight for freedom and independence  will have the support they need.
Finally, there was a fourth item.
And this area was that of bilateral relations, people-to-people contacts.
In Geneva last year, we welcomed several cultural exchange accords; in Iceland, we saw indications of more movement in these areas.
But let me say now: The United States remains committed to people-to-people programs that could lead to exchanges between not just a few elite, but thousands of everyday citizens from both our countries.
So, I think, then, that you can see that we did make progress in Iceland on a broad range of topics.
We reaffirmed our fourpoint agenda.
We discovered major new grounds of agreement.
We probed again some old areas of disagreement.
And let me return again to the SDI issue.
I realize some Americans may be asking tonight: Why not accept  Gorbachev's demand? Why not give up SDI for this agreement? Well, the answer, my friends, is simple.
SDI is America's insurance policy that the Soviet Union would keep the commitments made at Reykjavik.
SDI is America's security guarantee if the Soviets should  as they have done too often in the past  fail to comply with their solemn commitments.
SDI is what brought the Soviets back to arms control talks at Geneva and Iceland.
SDI is the key to a world without nuclear weapons.
The Soviets understand this.
They have devoted far more resources, for a lot longer time than we, to their own SDI The world's only operational missile defense today surrounds Moscow, the capital of the Soviet Union.
What  Gorbachev was demanding at Reykjavik was that the United States agree to a new version of a 14-year-old ABM treaty that the Soviet Union has already violated.
I told him we do not make those kinds of deals in the United States.
And the American people should reflect on these critical questions: How does a defense of the United States threaten the Soviet Union or anyone else? Why are the Soviets so adamant that America remain forever vulnerable to Soviet rocket attack? As of today, all free nations are utterly defenseless against Soviet missiles fired either by accident or design.
Why does the Soviet Union insist that we remain so  forever?So, my fellow Americans, I cannot promise, nor can any President promise, that the talks in Iceland or any future discussions with  Gorbachev will lead inevitably to great breakthroughs or momentous treaty signings.
We will not abandon the guiding principle we took to Reykjavik.
We prefer no agreement than to bring home a bad agreement to the United States.
And on this point, I know you are also interested in the question of whether there will be another summit.
There was no indication by  Gorbachev as to when or whether he plans to travel to the United States, as we agreed he would last year in Geneva.
I repeat tonight that our invitation stands, and that we continue to believe additional meetings would be useful.
But that is a decision the Soviets must make.
But whatever the immediate prospects, I can tell you that I am ultimately hopeful about the prospects for progress at the summit and for world peace and freedom.
You see, the current summit process is very different from that of previous decades.
It's different because the world is different; and the world is different because of the hard work and sacrifice of the American people during the past five and a half years.
Your energy has restored and expanded our economic might.
Your support has restored our military strength.
Your courage and sense of national unity in times of crisis have given pause to our adversaries, heartened our friends, and inspired the world.
The Western democracies and the NATO alliance are revitalized; and all across the world, nations are turning to democratic ideas and the principles of the free market.
So, because the American people stood guard at the critical hour, freedom has gathered its forces, regained its strength, and is on the march.
So, if there is one impression I carry away with me from these October talks, it is that, unlike the past, we are dealing now from a position of strength.
And for that reason, we have it within our grasp to move speedily with the Soviets toward even more breakthroughs.
Our ideas are out there on the table.
They will not go away.
We're ready to pick up where we left off.
Our negotiators are heading back to Geneva, and we are prepared to go forward whenever and wherever the Soviets are ready.
So, there is reason, good reason for hope.
I saw evidence of this is in the progress we made in the talks with  Gorbachev.
And I saw evidence of it when we left Iceland yesterday, and I spoke to our young men and women at our naval installation at Keflavik  a critically important base far closer to Soviet naval bases than to our own coastline.
As always, I was proud to spend a few moments with them and thank them for their sacrifices and devotion to country.
They represent America at her finest: committed to defend not only our own freedom but the freedom of others who would be living in a far more frightening world were it not for the strength and resolve of the United States.
Whenever the standard of freedom and independence has been.
unfurled, there will be America's heart, her benedictions, and her prayers, John Quincy Adams once said.
He spoke well of our destiny as a nation.
My fellow Americans, we are honored by history, entrusted by destiny with the oldest dream of humanity-the dream of lasting peace and human freedom.
Another President, Harry Truman, noted that our century had seen two of the most frightful wars in history and that the supreme need of our time is for man to learn to live together in peace and harmony.
It's in pursuit of that ideal I went to Geneva a year ago and to Iceland last week.
And it is in pursuit of that ideal that I thank you now for all the support you have given me, and I again ask for your help and your prayers as we continue our journey toward a world where peace reigns and freedom is enshrined.
Thank you, and God bless you.
Thank you all, please be seated.
Well, thank you, and welcome to the White House.
In a moment I will be sitting at that desk, taking up a pen, and signing the most sweeping overhaul of our tax code in our nation's history.
To all of you here today who have worked so long and hard to see this day come, my thanks and the thanks of a nation go out to you.
The journey's been long, and many said we had never make it to the end.
But as usual the pessimists left one thing out of their calculations: the American people.
They have not made this the freest country and the mightiest economic force on this planet by shrinking from challenges.
They never gave up.
And after almost 3 years of commitment and hard work, one headline in the Washington Post told the whole story: The Impossible Became the Inevitable, and the dream of America's fair-share tax plan became a reality.
When I sign this bill into law, America will have the lowest marginal tax rates and the most modern tax code among major industrialized nations, one that encourages risk-taking, innovation, and that old American spirit of enterprise.
We'll be refueling the American growth economy with the kind of incentives that helped create record new businesses and nearly 11.
7 million jobs in just 46 months.
Fair and simpler for most Americans, this is a tax code designed to take us into a future of technological invention and economic achievement, one that will keep America competitive and growing into the 21st century.
But for all tax reform's economic benefits, I believe that history will record this moment as something more: as the return to the first principles.
This country was founded on faith in the individual, not groups or classes, but faith in the resources and bounty of each and every separate human soul.
Our Founding Fathers designed a democratic form of government to enlist the individual's energies and fashioned a Bill of Rights to protect its freedoms.
And in so doing, they tapped a wellspring of hope and creativity that was to completely transform history.
The history of these United States of America is indeed a history of individual achievement.
It was their hard work that built our cities and farmed our prairies; their genius that continually pushed us beyond the boundaries of existing knowledge, reshaping our world with the steam engine, polio vaccine, and the silicon chip.
It was their faith in freedom and love of country that sustained us through trials and hardships and through wars, and it was their courage and selflessness that enabled us to always prevail.
But when our Founding Fathers designed this government  of, by, and for the people  they never imagined what we have come to know as the progressive income tax.
When the income tax was first levied in 1913, the top rate was only 7 percent on people with incomes over $500,000.
Now, that is the equivalent of multimillionaires today.
But in our lifetime we have seen marginal tax rates skyrocket as high as 90 percent, and not even the poor have been spared.
As tax rates escalated, the tax code grew ever more tangled and complex, a haven for special interests and tax manipulators, but an impossible frustration for everybody else.
Blatantly unfair, our tax code became a source of bitterness and discouragement for the average taxpayer.
It was not too much to call it un-American.
Meanwhile, the steeply progressive nature of the tax struck at the heart of the economic life of the individual, punishing that special effort and extra hard work that has always been the driving force of our economy.
As government's hunger for ever more revenues expanded, families saw tax cuts  or taxes, I should say, cut deeper and deeper into their paychecks; and taxation fell most cruelly on the poor, making a difficult climb up from poverty even harder.
Throughout history, the oppressive hand of government has fallen most heavily on the economic life of the individuals.
And more often than not, it is inflation and taxes that have undermined livelihoods and constrained their freedoms.
We should not forget that this nation of ours began in a revolt against oppressive taxation.
Our Founding Fathers fought not only for our political rights but also to secure the economic freedoms without which these political freedoms are no more than a shadow.
In the last 20 years we have witnessed an expansion and strengthening of many of our civil liberties, but our economic liberties have too often been neglected and even abused.
We protect the freedom of expression of the author, as we should, but what of the freedom of expression of the entrepreneur, whose pen and paper are capital and profits, whose book may be a new invention or small business? What of the creators of our economic life, whose contributions may not only delight the mind but improve the condition of man by feeding the poor with new grains, bringing hope to the sick with new cures, vanishing ignorance with wondrous new information technologies?And what about fairness for families? It's in our families that America's most important work gets done: raising our next generation.
But over the last 40 years, as inflation has shrunk the personal exemption, families with children have had to shoulder more and more of the tax burden.
With inflation and bracket-creep also eroding incomes, many spouses who would rather stay home with their children have been forced to go looking for jobs.
And what of America's promise of hope and opportunity, that with hard work even the poorest among us can gain the security and happiness that is the due of all Americans? You cannot put a price tag on the American dream.
That dream is the heart and soul of America; it is the promise that keeps our nation forever good and generous, a model and hope to the world.
For all these reasons, this tax bill is less a freedom  or a reform, I should say, than a revolution.
Millions of working poor will be dropped from the tax rolls altogether, and families will get a long-overdue break with lower rates and an almost doubled personal exemption.
We're going to make it economical to raise children again.
Flatter rates will mean more reward for that extra effort, and vanishing loopholes and a minimum tax will mean that everybody and every corporation pay their fair share.
And that is why I am certain that the bill I am signing today is not only an historic overhaul of our tax code and a sweeping victory for fairness, it is also the best antipoverty bill, the best profamily measure, and the best job-creation program ever to come out of the Congress of the United States.
And now that we have come this far, we cannot, and we will not, allow tax reform to be undone with tax rate hikes.
We must restore certainty to our tax code and our economy.
And I will oppose with all my might any attempt to raise tax rates on the American people, and I hope that all here will join with me to make permanent the historic progress of tax reform.
I think all of us here today know what a Herculean effort it took to get this landmark bill to my desk.
That effort did not start here in Washington, but began with the many thinkers who have struggled to return economics to its classical roots  to an understanding that ultimately the economy is not made up of aggregates like government spending and consumer demand, but of individual men and women, each striving to provide for his family and better his or her lot in life.
But we must also salute those courageous leaders in the Congress who have made this day possible.
To Bob Packwood, Dan Rostenkowski, Russell Long, John Duncan, and Majority Leader Bob Dole; to Jack Kemp, Bob Kasten, Bill Bradley, and Dick Gephardt, who pioneered with their own versions of tax reform  I salute all of you and all the other Members of the Senate and House whose efforts paid off and whose votes finally won the day.
And last but not least, the many members of the administration who must often have felt that they were fighting a lonely battle against overwhelming odds  particularly my two incomparable Secretaries of the Treasury, Don Regan and Jim Baker  and I thank them from the bottom of my heart.
I feel like we just played the World Series of tax reform    and the American people won.
Speaker,  President, distinguished Members of Congress, honored guests, and fellow citizens:May I congratulate all of you who are Members of this historic 100th Congress of the United States of America.
In this 200th anniversary year of our Constitution, you and I stand on the shoulders of giants  men whose words and deeds put wind in the sails of freedom.
However, we must always remember that our Constitution is to be celebrated not for being old, but for being young  young with the same energy, spirit, and promise that filled each eventful day in Philadelphia's statehouse.
We will be guided tonight by their acts, and we will be guided forever by their words.
Now, forgive me, but I cannot resist sharing a story from those historic days.
Philadelphia was bursting with civic pride in the spring of 1787, and its newspapers began embellishing the arrival of the Convention delegates with elaborate social classifications.
Governors of States were called Excellency.
Justices and Chancellors had reserved for them honorable with a capital H.
For Congressmen, it was honorable with a small h.
And all others were referred to as the following respectable characters.
Well, for this 100th Congress, I invoke special executive powers to declare that each of you must never be titled less than honorable with a capital H.
Incidentally, I am delighted you are celebrating the 100th birthday of the Congress.
It's always a pleasure to congratulate someone with more birthdays than I have had.
Now, there is a new face at this place of honor tonight.
And please join me in warm congratulations to the Speaker of the House, Jim Wright.
Speaker, you might recall a similar situation in your very first session of Congress 32 years ago.
Then, as now, the speakership had changed hands and another great son of Texas, Sam Rayburn   Sam  sat in your chair.
I cannot find better words than those used by President Eisenhower that evening.
He said, We shall have much to do together; I am sure that we will get it done and that we shall do it in harmony and good will.
Tonight I renew that pledge.
To you,  Speaker, and to Senate Majority Leader Robert Byrd, who brings 34 years of distinguished service to the Congress, may I say: Though there are changes in the Congress, America's interests remain the same.
And I am confident that, along with Republican leaders Bob Michel and Bob Dole, this Congress can make history.
Six years ago I was here to ask the Congress to join me in America's new beginning.
Well, the results are something of which we can all be proud.
Our inflation rate is now the lowest in a quarter of a century.
The prime interest rate has fallen from the 21 1/2 percent the month before we took office to 7 1/2 percent today.
And those rates have triggered the most housing starts in 8 years.
The unemployment rate  still too high  is the lowest in nearly 7 years, and our people have created nearly 13 million new jobs.
Over 61 percent of everyone over the age of 16, male and female, is employed  the highest percentage on record.
Let's roll up our sleeves and go to work and put America's economic engine at full throttle.
We can also be heartened by our progress across the world.
Most important, America is at peace tonight, and freedom is on the march.
And we have done much these past years to restore our defenses, our alliances, and our leadership in the world.
Our sons and daughters in the services once again wear their uniforms with pride.
But though we have made much progress, I have one major regret: I took a risk with regard to our action in Iran.
It did not work, and for that I assume full responsibility.
The goals were worthy.
I do not believe it was wrong to try to establish contacts with a country of strategic importance or to try to save lives.
And certainly it was not wrong to try to secure freedom for our citizens held in barbaric captivity.
But we did not achieve what we wished, and serious mistakes were made in trying to do so.
We will get to the bottom of this, and I will take whatever action is called for.
But in debating the past, we must not deny ourselves the successes of the future.
Let it never be said of this generation of Americans that we became so obsessed with failure that we refused to take risks that could further the cause of peace and freedom in the world.
Much is at stake here, and the Nation and the world are watching to see if we go forward together in the national interest or if we let partisanship weaken us.
And let there be no mistake about American policy: We will not sit idly by if our interests or our friends in the Middle East are threatened, nor will we yield to terrorist blackmail.
And now, ladies and gentlemen of the Congress, why do not we get to work? I am pleased to report that because of our efforts to rebuild the strength of America, the world is a safer place.
Earlier this month I submitted a budget to defend America and maintain our momentum to make up for neglect in the last decade.
Well, I ask you to vote out a defense and foreign affairs budget that says yes to protecting our country.
While the world is safer, it is not safe.
Since 1970 the Soviets have invested $500 billion more on their military forces than we have.
Even today, though nearly 1 in 3 Soviet families is without running hot water and the average family spends 2 hours a day shopping for the basic necessities of life, their government still found the resources to transfer $75 billion in weapons to client states in the past 5 years  clients like Syria, Vietnam, Cuba, Libya, Angola, Ethiopia, Afghanistan, and Nicaragua.
With 120,000 Soviet combat and military personnel and 15,000 military advisers in Asia, Africa, and Latin America, can anyone still doubt their single-minded determination to expand their power? Despite this, the Congress cut my request for critical U.
S.
security assistance to free nations by 21 percent this year, and cut defense requests by $85 billion in the last 3 years.
These assistance programs serve our national interests as well as mutual interests.
And when the programs are devastated, American interests are harmed.
My friends, it is my duty as President to say to you again tonight that there is no surer way to lose freedom than to lose our resolve.
Today the brave people of Afghanistan are showing that resolve.
The Soviet Union says it wants a peaceful settlement in Afghanistan, yet it continues a brutal war and props up a regime whose days are clearly numbered.
We are ready to support a political solution that guarantees the rapid withdrawal of all Soviet troops and genuine self-determination for the Afghan people.
In Central America, too, the cause of freedom is being tested.
And our resolve is being tested there as well.
Here, especially, the world is watching to see how this nation responds.
Today over 90 percent of the people of Latin America live in democracy.
Democracy is on the march in Central and South America.
Communist Nicaragua is the odd man out  suppressing the church, the press, and democratic dissent and promoting subversion in the region.
We support diplomatic efforts, but these efforts can never succeed if the Sandinistas win their war against the Nicaraguan people.
Our commitment to a Western Hemisphere safe from aggression did not occur by spontaneous generation on the day that we took office.
It began with the Monroe Doctrine in 1823 and continues our historic bipartisan American policy.
Franklin Roosevelt said we are determined to do everything possible to maintain peace on this hemisphere.
President Truman was very blunt: International communism seeks to crush and undermine and destroy the independence of the Americas.
We cannot let that happen here.
And John F.
Kennedy made clear that Communist domination in this hemisphere can never be negotiated.
Some in this Congress may choose to depart from this historic commitment, but I will not.
This year we celebrate the second century of our Constitution.
The Sandinistas just signed theirs two weeks ago, and then suspended it.
We will not know how my words tonight will be reported there for one simple reason: There is no free press in Nicaragua.
Nicaraguan freedom fighters have never asked us to wage their battle, but I will fight any effort to shut off their lifeblood and consign them to death, defeat, or a life without freedom.
There must be no Soviet beachhead in Central America.
You know, we Americans have always preferred dialog to conflict, and so, we always remain open to more constructive relations with the Soviet Union.
But more responsible Soviet conduct around the world is a key element of the U.
S.
-Soviet agenda.
Progress is also required on the other items of our agenda as well  real respect for human rights and more open contacts between our societies and, of course, arms reduction.
In Iceland, last October, we had one moment of opportunity that the Soviets dashed because they sought to cripple our Strategic Defense Initiative, SDI I would not let them do it then; I will not let them do it now or in the future.
This is the most positive and promising defense program we have undertaken.
It's the path, for both sides, to a safer future  a system that defends human life instead of threatening it.
SDI will go forward.
The United States has made serious, fair, and far-reaching proposals to the Soviet Union, and this is a moment of rare opportunity for arms reduction.
But I will need, and American negotiators in Geneva will need, Congress' support.
Enacting the Soviet negotiating position into American law would not be the way to win a good agreement.
So, I must tell you in this Congress I will veto any effort that undercuts our national security and our negotiating leverage.
Now, today, we also find ourselves engaged in expanding peaceful commerce across the world.
We will work to expand our opportunities in international markets through the Uruguay round of trade negotiations and to complete an historic free trade arrangement between the world's two largest trading partners, Canada and the United States.
Our basic trade policy remains the same: We remain opposed as ever to protectionism, because America's growth and future depend on trade.
But we would insist on trade that is fair and free.
We are always willing to be trade partners but never trade patsies.
Now, from foreign borders let us return to our own, because America in the world is only as strong as America at home.
This 100th Congress has high responsibilities.
I begin with a gentle reminder that many of these are simply the incomplete obligations of the past.
The American people deserve to be impatient, because we do not yet have the public house in order.
We've had great success in restoring our economic integrity, and we have rescued our nation from the worst economic mess since the Depression.
But there is more to do.
For starters, the Federal deficit is outrageous.
For years I have asked that we stop pushing onto our children the excesses of our government.
And what the Congress finally needs to do is pass a constitutional amendment that mandates a balanced budget and forces government to live within its means.
States, cities, and the families of America balance their budgets.
Why cannot we?Next, the budget process is a sorry spectacle.
The missing of deadlines and the nightmare of monstrous continuing resolutions packing hundreds of billions of dollars of spending into one bill must be stopped.
We ask the Congress once again: Give us the same tool that 43 Governors have  a lineitem veto so we can carve out the boondoggles and pork, those items that would never survive on their own.
I will send the Congress broad recommendations on the budget, but first I had like to see yours.
Let's go to work and get this done together.
But now let us talk about this year's budget.
Even though I have submitted it within the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings deficit reduction target, I have seen suggestions that we might postpone that timetable.
Well, I think the American people are tired of hearing the same old excuses.
Together we made a commitment to balance the budget.
Now let us keep it.
As for those suggestions that the answer is higher taxes, the American people have repeatedly rejected that shop-worn advice.
They know that we do not have deficits because people are taxed too little.
We have deficits because big government spends too much.
Now, next month I will place two additional reforms before the Congress.
We've created a welfare monster that is a shocking indictment of our sense of priorities.
Our national welfare system consists of some 59 major programs and over 6,000 pages of Federal laws and regulations on which more than $132 billion was spent in 1985.
I will propose a new national welfare strategy, a program of welfare reform through State-sponsored, community-based demonstration projects.
This is the time to reform this outmoded social dinosaur and finally break the poverty trap.
Now, we will never abandon those who, through no fault of their own, must have our help.
But let us work to see how many can be freed from the dependency of welfare and made self-supporting, which the great majority of welfare recipients want more than anything else.
Next, let us remove a financial specter facing our older Americans: the fear of an illness so expensive that it can result in having to make an intolerable choice between bankruptcy and death.
I will submit legislation shortly to help free the elderly from the fear of catastrophic illness.
Now let us turn to the future.
It's widely said that America is losing her competitive edge.
Well, that will not happen if we act now.
How well prepared are we to enter the 21st century? In my lifetime, America set the standard for the world.
It is now time to determine that we should enter the next century having achieved a level of excellence unsurpassed in history.
We will achieve this, first, by guaranteeing that government does everything possible to promote America's ability to compete.
Second, we must act as individuals in a quest for excellence that will not be measured by new proposals or billions in new funding.
Rather, it involves an expenditure of American spirit and just plain American grit.
The Congress will soon receive my comprehensive proposals to enhance our competitiveness, including new science and technology centers and strong new funding for basic research.
The bill will include legal and regulatory reforms and weapons to fight unfair trade practices.
Competitiveness also means giving our farmers a shot at participating fairly and fully in a changing world market.
Preparing for the future must begin, as always, with our children.
We need to set for them new and more rigorous goals.
We must demand more of ourselves and our children by raising literacy levels dramatically by the year 2000.
Our children should master the basic concepts of math and science, and let us insist that students not leave high school until they have studied and understood the basic documents of our national heritage.
There's one more thing we cannot let up on: Let's redouble our personal efforts to provide for every child a safe and drug-free learning environment.
If our crusade against drugs succeeds with our children, we will defeat that scourge all over the country.
Finally, let us stop suppressing the spiritual core of our national being.
Our nation could not have been conceived without divine help.
Why is it that we can build a nation with our prayers, but we cannot use a schoolroom for voluntary prayer? The 100th Congress of the United States should be remembered as the one that ended the expulsion of God from America's classrooms.
The quest for excellence into the 21st century begins in the schoolroom but must go next to the workplace.
More than 20 million new jobs will be created before the new century unfolds, and by then, our economy should be able to provide a job for everyone who wants to work.
We must also enable our workers to adapt to the rapidly changing nature of the workplace.
And I will propose substantial, new Federal commitments keyed to retraining and job mobility.
Over the next few weeks, I will be sending the Congress a complete series of these special messages  on budget reform, welfare reform, competitiveness, including education, trade, worker training and assistance, agriculture, and other subjects.
The Congress can give us these tools, but to make these tools work, it really comes down to just being our best.
And that is the core of American greatness.
The responsibility of freedom presses us towards higher knowledge and, I believe, moral and spiritual greatness.
Through lower taxes and smaller government, government has its ways of freeing people's spirits.
But only we, each of us, can let the spirit soar against our own individual standards.
Excellence is what makes freedom ring.
And is not that what we do best?We're entering our third century now, but it is wrong to judge our nation by its years.
The calendar cannot measure America because we were meant to be an endless experiment in freedom  with no limit to our reaches, no boundaries to what we can do, no end point to our hopes.
The United States Constitution is the impassioned and inspired vehicle by which we travel through history.
It grew out of the most fundamental inspiration of our existence: that we are here to serve Him by living free  that living free releases in us the noblest of impulses and the best of our abilities; that we would use these gifts for good and generous purposes and would secure them not just for ourselves and for our children but for all mankind.
Over the years  I will not count if you do not  nothing has been so heartwarming to me as speaking to America's young, and the little ones especially, so fresh-faced and so eager to know.
Well, from time to time I have been with them  they will ask about our Constitution.
And I hope you Members of Congress will not deem this a breach of protocol if you will permit me to share these thoughts again with the young people who might be listening or watching this evening.
I have read the constitutions of a number of countries, including the Soviet Union's.
Now, some people are surprised to hear that they have a constitution, and it even supposedly grants a number of freedoms to its people.
Many countries have written into their constitution provisions for freedom of speech and freedom of assembly.
Well, if this is true, why is the Constitution of the United States so exceptional?Well, the difference is so small that it almost escapes you, but it is so great it tells you the whole story in just three words: We the people.
In those other constitutions, the Government tells the people of those countries what they are allowed to do.
In our Constitution, we the people tell the Government what it can do, and it can do only those things listed in that document and no others.
Virtually every other revolution in history has just exchanged one set of rulers for another set of rulers.
Our revolution is the first to say the people are the masters and government is their servant.
And you young people out there, do not ever forget that.
Someday you could be in this room, but wherever you are, America is depending on you to reach your highest and be your best  because here in America, we the people are in charge.
Just three words: We the people  those are the kids on Christmas Day looking out from a frozen sentry post on the 38th parallel in Korea or aboard an aircraft carrier in the Mediterranean.
A million miles from home, but doing their duty.
We the people  those are the warmhearted whose numbers we cannot begin to count, who will begin the day with a little prayer for hostages they will never know and MIA families they will never meet.
Why? Because that is the way we are, this unique breed we call Americans.
We the people  they are farmers on tough times, but who never stop feeding a hungry world.
They're the volunteers at the hospital choking back their tears for the hundredth time, caring for a baby struggling for life because of a mother who used drugs.
And you will forgive me a special memory  it is a million mothers like Nelle Reagan who never knew a stranger or turned a hungry person away from her kitchen door.
We the people  they refute last week's television commentary downgrading our optimism and our idealism.
They are the entrepreneurs, the builders, the pioneers, and a lot of regular folks  the true heroes of our land who make up the most uncommon nation of doers in history.
You know they are Americans because their spirit is as big as the universe and their hearts are bigger than their spirits.
We the people  starting the third century of a dream and standing up to some cynic who is trying to tell us we are not going to get any better.
Are we at the end? Well, I cannot tell it any better than the real thing  a story recorded by James Madison from the final moments of the Constitutional Convention, September 17th, 1787.
As the last few members signed the document, Benjamin Franklin  the oldest delegate at 81 years and in frail health  looked over toward the chair where George Washington daily presided.
At the back of the chair was painted the picture of a Sun on the horizon.
And turning to those sitting next to him, Franklin observed that artists found it difficult in their painting to distinguish between a rising and a setting Sun.
Well, I know if we were there, we could see those delegates sitting around Franklin-leaning in to listen more closely to him.
And then  Franklin began to share his deepest hopes and fears about the outcome of their efforts, and this is what he said: I have often looked at that picture behind the President without being able to tell whether it was a rising or setting Sun: But now at length I have the happiness to know that it is a rising and not a setting Sun.
Well, you can bet it is rising because, my fellow citizens, America is not finished.
Her best days have just begun.
Thank you, God bless you, and God bless America.
Thank you very much.
Chancellor Kohl, Governing Mayor Diepgen, ladies and gentlemen: Twenty-four years ago, President John F.
Kennedy visited Berlin, speaking to the people of this city and the world at the city hall.
Well, since then two other presidents have come, each in his turn, to Berlin.
And today I, myself, make my second visit to your city.
We come to Berlin, we American Presidents, because it is our duty to speak, in this place, of freedom.
But I must confess, we are drawn here by other things as well: by the feeling of history in this city, more than 500 years older than our own nation; by the beauty of the Grunewald and the Tiergarten; most of all, by your courage and determination.
Perhaps the composer, Paul Lincke, understood something about American Presidents.
You see, like so many Presidents before me, I come here today because wherever I go, whatever I do: Ich hab noch einen koffer in Berlin.
Our gathering today is being broadcast throughout Western Europe and North America.
I understand that it is being seen and heard as well in the East.
To those listening throughout Eastern Europe, I extend my warmest greetings and the good will of the American people.
To those listening in East Berlin, a special word: Although I cannot be with you, I address my remarks to you just as surely as to those standing here before me.
For I join you, as I join your fellow countrymen in the West, in this firm, this unalterable belief: Es gibt nur ein Berlin.
Behind me stands a wall that encircles the free sectors of this city, part of a vast system of barriers that divides the entire continent of Europe.
From the Baltic, south, those barriers cut across Germany in a gash of barbed wire, concrete, dog runs, and guardtowers.
Farther south, there may be no visible, no obvious wall.
But there remain armed guards and checkpoints all the same  still a restriction on the right to travel, still an instrument to impose upon ordinary men and women the will of a totalitarian state.
Yet it is here in Berlin where the wall emerges most clearly; here, cutting across your city, where the news photo and the television screen have imprinted this brutal division of a continent upon the mind of the world.
Standing before the Brandenburg Gate, every man is a German, separated from his fellow men.
Every man is a Berliner, forced to look upon a scar.
President von Weizsacker has said: The German question is open as long as the Brandenburg Gate is closed.
Today I say: As long as this gate is closed, as long as this scar of a wall is permitted to stand, it is not the German question alone that remains open, but the question of freedom for all mankind.
Yet I do not come here to lament.
For I find in Berlin a message of hope, even in the shadow of this wall, a message of triumph.
In this season of spring in 1945, the people of Berlin emerged from their air raid shelters to find devastation.
Thousands of miles away, the people of the United States reached out to help.
And in 1947 Secretary of State  as you have been told  George Marshall announced the creation of what would become known as the Marshall Plan.
Speaking precisely 40 years ago this month, he said: Our policy is directed not against any country or doctrine, but against hunger, poverty, desperation, and chaos.
In the Reichstag a few moments ago, I saw a display commemorating this 40th anniversary of the Marshall Plan.
I was struck by the sign on a burnt-out, gutted structure that was being rebuilt.
I understand that Berliners of my own generation can remember seeing signs like it dotted throughout the Western sectors of the city.
The sign read simply: The Marshall Plan is helping here to strengthen the free world.
A strong, free world in the West, that dream became real.
Japan rose from ruin to become an economic giant.
Italy , France , Belgium  virtually every nation in Western Europe saw political and economic rebirth; the European Community was founded.
In West Germany and here in Berlin, there took place an economic miracle, the Wirtschaftswunder.
Adenauer, Erhard, Reuter, and other leaders understood the practical importance of liberty  that just as truth can flourish only when the journalist is given freedom of speech, so prosperity can come about only when the farmer and businessman enjoy economic freedom.
The German leaders reduced tariffs, expanded free trade, lowered taxes.
From 1950 to 1960 alone, the standard of living in West Germany and Berlin doubled.
Where four decades ago there was rubble, today in West Berlin there is the greatest industrial output of any city in Germany  busy office blocks, fine homes and apartments, proud avenues, and the spreading lawns of park land.
Where a city's culture seemed to have been destroyed, today there are two great universities, orchestras and an opera, countless theaters, and museums.
Where there was want, today there is abundance  food, clothing, automobiles  the wonderful goods of the Ku'damm.
From devastation, from utter ruin, you Berliners have, in freedom, rebuilt a city that once again ranks as one of the greatest on Earth.
The Soviets may have had other plans.
But, my friends, there were a few things the Soviets did not count on Berliner herz, Berliner humor, ja, und Berliner schnauze.
In the 1950s, Khrushchev predicted: We will bury you.
But in the West today, we see a free world that has achieved a level of prosperity and well-being unprecedented in all human history.
In the Communist world, we see failure, technological backwardness, declining standards of health, even want of the most basic kind  too little food.
Even today, the Soviet Union still cannot feed itself.
After these four decades, then, there stands before the entire world one great and inescapable conclusion: Freedom leads to prosperity.
Freedom replaces the ancient hatreds among the nations with comity and peace.
Freedom is the victor.
And now the Soviets themselves may, in a limited way, be coming to understand the importance of freedom.
We hear much from Moscow about a new policy of reform and openness.
Some political prisoners have been released.
Certain foreign news broadcasts are no longer being jammed.
Some economic enterprises have been permitted to operate with greater freedom from state control.
Are these the beginnings of profound changes in the Soviet state? Or are they token gestures, intended to raise false hopes in the West, or to strengthen the Soviet system without changing it? We welcome change and openness; for we believe that freedom and security go together, that the advance of human liberty can only strengthen the cause of world peace.
There is one sign the Soviets can make that would be unmistakable, that would advance dramatically the cause of freedom and peace.
General Secretary Gorbachev, if you seek peace, if you seek prosperity for the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe, if you seek liberalization: Come here to this gate!  Gorbachev, open this gate!  Gorbachev, tear down this wall! I understand the fear of war and the pain of division that afflict this continent  and I pledge to you my country's efforts to help overcome these burdens.
To be sure, we in the West must resist Soviet expansion.
So we must maintain defenses of unassailable strength.
Yet we seek peace; so we must strive to reduce arms on both sides.
Beginning 10 years ago, the Soviets challenged the Western alliance with a grave new threat, hundreds of new and more deadly SS-20 nuclear missiles, capable of striking every capital in Europe.
The Western alliance responded by committing itself to a counterdeployment unless the Soviets agreed to negotiate a better solution; namely, the elimination of such weapons on both sides.
For many months, the Soviets refused to bargain in earnestness.
As the alliance, in turn, prepared to go forward with its counterdeployment, there were difficult days  days of protests like those during my 1982 visit to this city  and the Soviets later walked away from the table.
But through it all, the alliance held firm.
And I invite those who protested then  I invite those who protest today  to mark this fact: Because we remained strong, the Soviets came back to the table.
And because we remained strong, today we have within reach the possibility, not merely of limiting the growth of arms, but of eliminating, for the first time, an entire class of nuclear weapons from the face of the Earth.
As I speak, NATO ministers are meeting in Iceland to review the progress of our proposals for eliminating these weapons.
At the talks in Geneva, we have also proposed deep cuts in strategic offensive weapons.
And the Western allies have likewise made far-reaching proposals to reduce the danger of conventional war and to place a total ban on chemical weapons.
While we pursue these arms reductions, I pledge to you that we will maintain the capacity to deter Soviet aggression at any level at which it might occur.
And in cooperation with many of our allies, the United States is pursuing the Strategic Defense Initiative  research to base deterrence not on the threat of offensive retaliation, but on defenses that truly defend; on systems, in short, that will not target populations, but shield them.
By these means we seek to increase the safety of Europe and all the world.
But we must remember a crucial fact: East and West do not mistrust each other because we are armed; we are armed because we mistrust each other.
And our differences are not about weapons but about liberty.
When President Kennedy spoke at the City Hall those 24 years ago, freedom was encircled, Berlin was under siege.
And today, despite all the pressures upon this city, Berlin stands secure in its liberty.
And freedom itself is transforming the globe.
In the Philippines, in South and Central America, democracy has been given a rebirth.
Throughout the Pacific, free markets are working miracle after miracle of economic growth.
In the industrialized nations, a technological revolution is taking place  a revolution marked by rapid, dramatic advances in computers and telecommunications.
In Europe, only one nation and those it controls refuse to join the community of freedom.
Yet in this age of redoubled economic growth, of information and innovation, the Soviet Union faces a choice: It must make fundamental changes, or it will become obsolete.
Today thus represents a moment of hope.
We in the West stand ready to cooperate with the East to promote true openness, to break down barriers that separate people, to create a safer, freer world.
And surely there is no better place than Berlin, the meeting place of East and West, to make a start.
Free people of Berlin: Today, as in the past, the United States stands for the strict observance and full implementation of all parts of the Four Power Agreement of 1971.
Let us use this occasion, the 750th anniversary of this city, to usher in a new era, to seek a still fuller, richer life for the Berlin of the future.
Together, let us maintain and develop the ties between the Federal Republic and the Western sectors of Berlin, which is permitted by the 1971 agreement.
And I invite  Gorbachev: Let us work to bring the Eastern and Western parts of the city closer together, so that all the inhabitants of all Berlin can enjoy the benefits that come with life in one of the great cities of the world.
To open Berlin still further to all Europe, East and West, let us expand the vital air access to this city, finding ways of making commercial air service to Berlin more convenient, more comfortable, and more economical.
We look to the day when West Berlin can become one of the chief aviation hubs in all central Europe.
With our French and British partners, the United States is prepared to help bring international meetings to Berlin.
It would be only fitting for Berlin to serve as the site of United Nations meetings, or world conferences on human rights and arms control or other issues that call for international cooperation.
There is no better way to establish hope for the future than to enlighten young minds, and we would be honored to sponsor summer youth exchanges, cultural events, and other programs for young Berliners from the East.
Our French and British friends, I am certain, will do the same.
And it is my hope that an authority can be found in East Berlin to sponsor visits from young people of the Western sectors.
One final proposal, one close to my heart: Sport represents a source of enjoyment and ennoblement, and you many have noted that the Republic of Korea  South Korea  has offered to permit certain events of the 1988 Olympics to take place in the North.
International sports competitions of all kinds could take place in both parts of this city.
And what better way to demonstrate to the world the openness of this city than to offer in some future year to hold the Olympic games here in Berlin, East and West? In these four decades, as I have said, you Berliners have built a great city.
You've done so in spite of threats  the Soviet attempts to impose the East-mark, the blockade.
Today the city thrives in spite of the challenges implicit in the very presence of this wall.
What keeps you here? Certainly there is a great deal to be said for your fortitude, for your defiant courage.
But I believe there is something deeper, something that involves Berlin's whole look and feel and way of life  not mere sentiment.
No one could live long in Berlin without being completely disabused of illusions.
Something instead, that has seen the difficulties of life in Berlin but chose to accept them, that continues to build this good and proud city in contrast to a surrounding totalitarian presence that refuses to release human energies or aspirations.
Something that speaks with a powerful voice of affirmation, that says yes to this city, yes to the future, yes to freedom.
In a word, I would submit that what keeps you in Berlin is love  love both profound and abiding.
Perhaps this gets to the root of the matter, to the most fundamental distinction of all between East and West.
The totalitarian world produces backwardness because it does such violence to the spirit, thwarting the human impulse to create, to enjoy, to worship.
The totalitarian world finds even symbols of love and of worship an affront.
Years ago, before the East Germans began rebuilding their churches, they erected a secular structure: the television tower at Alexander Platz.
Virtually ever since, the authorities have been working to correct what they view as the tower's one major flaw, treating the glass sphere at the top with paints and chemicals of every kind.
Yet even today when the sun strikes that sphere  that sphere that towers over all Berlin  the light makes the sign of the cross.
There in Berlin, like the city itself, symbols of love, symbols of worship, cannot be suppressed.
As I looked out a moment ago from the Reichstag, that embodiment of German unity, I noticed words crudely spray-painted upon the wall, perhaps by a young Berliner, This wall will fall.
Beliefs become reality.
Yes, across Europe, this wall will fall.
For it cannot withstand faith; it cannot withstand truth.
The wall cannot withstand freedom.
And I would like, before I close, to say one word.
I have read, and I have been questioned since I have been here about certain demonstrations against my coming.
And I would like to say just one thing, and to those who demonstrate so.
I wonder if they have ever asked themselves that if they should have the kind of government they apparently seek, no one would ever be able to do what they are doing again.
Thank you and God bless you all.
My fellow Americans:I have spoken to you from this historic office on many occasions and about many things.
The power of the Presidency is often thought to reside within this Oval Office.
Yet it does not rest here; it rests in you, the American people, and in your trust.
Your trust is what gives a President his powers of leadership and his personal strength, and it is what I want to talk to you about this evening.
For the past three months, I have been silent on the revelations about Iran.
And you must have been thinking: Well, why does not he tell us what is happening? Why does not he just speak to us as he has in the past when we have faced troubles or tragedies? Others of you, I guess, were thinking: What's he doing hiding out in the White House? Well, the reason I have not spoken to you before now is this: You deserve the truth.
And as frustrating as the waiting has been, I felt it was improper to come to you with sketchy reports, or possibly even erroneous statements, which would then have to be corrected, creating even more doubt and confusion.
There's been enough of that.
I have paid a price for my silence in terms of your trust and confidence.
But I have had to wait, as you have, for the complete story.
That's why I appointed Ambassador David Abshire as my Special Counsellor to help get out the thousands of documents to the various investigations.
And I appointed a Special Review Board, the Tower board, which took on the chore of pulling the truth together for me and getting to the bottom of things.
It has now issued its findings.
I am often accused of being an optimist, and it is true I had to hunt pretty hard to find any good news in the Board's report.
As you know, it is well-stocked with criticisms, which I will discuss in a moment; but I was very relieved to read this sentence:.
the Board is convinced that the President does indeed want the full story to be told.
And that will continue to be my pledge to you as the other investigations go forward.
I want to thank the members of the panel: former Senator John Tower, former Secretary of State Edmund Muskie, and former national security adviser Brent Scowcroft.
They have done the Nation, as well as me personally, a great service by submitting a report of such integrity and depth.
They have my genuine and enduring gratitude.
I have studied the Board's report.
Its findings are honest, convincing, and highly critical; and I accept them.
And tonight I want to share with you my thoughts on these findings and report to you on the actions I am taking to implement the Board's recommendations.
First, let me say I take full responsibility for my own actions and for those of my administration.
As angry as I may be about activities undertaken without my knowledge, I am still accountable for those activities.
As disappointed as I may be in some who served me, I am still the one who must answer to the American people for this behavior.
And as personally distasteful as I find secret bank accounts and diverted funds  well, as the Navy would say, this happened on my watch.
Let's start with the part that is the most controversial.
A few months ago I told the American people I did not trade arms for hostages.
My heart and my best intentions still tell me that is true, but the facts and the evidence tell me it is not.
As the Tower board reported, what began as a strategic opening to Iran deteriorated, in its implementation, into trading arms for hostages.
This runs counter to my own beliefs, to administration policy, and to the original strategy we had in mind.
There are reasons why it happened, but no excuses.
It was a mistake.
I undertook the original Iran initiative in order to develop relations with those who might assume leadership in a post-Khomeini government.
It's clear from the Board's report, however, that I let my personal concern for the hostages spill over into the geopolitical strategy of reaching out to Iran.
I asked so many questions about the hostages welfare that I did not ask enough about the specifics of the total Iran plan.
Let me say to the hostage families: We have not given up.
We never will.
And I promise you we will use every legitimate means to free your loved ones from captivity.
But I must also caution that those Americans who freely remain in such dangerous areas must know that they are responsible for their own safety.
Now, another major aspect of the Board's findings regards the transfer of funds to the Nicaraguan contras.
The Tower board was not able to find out what happened to this money, so the facts here will be left to the continuing investigations of the court-appointed Independent Counsel and the two congressional investigating committees.
I am confident the truth will come out about this matter, as well.
As I told the Tower board, I did not know about any diversion of funds to the contras.
But as President, I cannot escape responsibility.
Much has been said about my management style, a style that is worked successfully for me during 8 years as Governor of California and for most of my Presidency.
The way I work is to identify the problem, find the right individuals to do the job, and then let them go to it.
I have found this invariably brings out the best in people.
They seem to rise to their full capability, and in the long run you get more done.
When it came to managing the NSC staff, let us face it, my style did not match its previous track record.
I have already begun correcting this.
As a start, yesterday I met with the entire professional staff of the National Security Council.
I defined for them the values I want to guide the national security policies of this country.
I told them that I wanted a policy that was as justifiable and understandable in public as it was in secret.
I wanted a policy that reflected the will of the Congress as well as of the White House.
And I told them that there'll be no more freelancing by individuals when it comes to our national security.
You've heard a lot about the staff of the National Security Council in recent months.
Well, I can tell you, they are good and dedicated government employees, who put in long hours for the Nation's benefit.
They are eager and anxious to serve their country.
One thing still upsetting me, however, is that no one kept proper records of meetings or decisions.
This led to my failure to recollect whether I approved an arms shipment before or after the fact.
I did approve it; I just cannot say specifically when.
Well, rest assured, there is plenty of recordkeeping now going on at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue.
For nearly a week now, I have been studying the Board's report.
I want the American people to know that this wrenching ordeal of recent months has not been in vain.
I endorse every one of the Tower board's recommendations.
In fact, I am going beyond its recommendations so as to put the house in even better order.
I am taking action in three basic areas: personnel, national security policy, and the process for making sure that the system works.
First, personnel  I have brought in an accomplished and highly respected new team here at the White House.
They bring new blood, new energy, and new credibility and experience.
Former Senator Howard Baker, my new Chief of Staff, possesses a breadth of legislative and foreign affairs skills that is impossible to match.
I am hopeful that his experience as minority and majority leader of the Senate can help us forge a new partnership with the Congress, especially on foreign and national security policies.
I am genuinely honored that he is given up his own Presidential aspirations to serve the country as my Chief of Staff.
Frank Carlucci, my new national security adviser, is respected for his experience in government and trusted for his judgment and counsel.
Under him, the NSC staff is being rebuilt with proper management discipline.
Already, almost half the NSC professional staff is comprised of new people.
Yesterday I nominated William Webster, a man of sterling reputation, to be Director of the Central Intelligence Agency.
Webster has served as Director of the FBI and as a U.
S.
District Court judge.
He understands the meaning of rule of law.
So that his knowledge of national security matters can be available to me on a continuing basis, I will also appoint John Tower to serve as a member of my Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board.
I am considering other changes in personnel, and I will move more furniture, as I see fit, in the weeks and months ahead.
Second, in the area of national security policy, I have ordered the NSC to begin a comprehensive review of all covert operations.
I have also directed that any covert activity be in support of clear policy objectives and in compliance with American values.
I expect a covert policy that, if Americans saw it on the front page of their newspaper, they had say, That makes sense.
I have had issued a directive prohibiting the NSC staff itself from undertaking covert operations  no ifs, ands, or buts.
I have asked Vice President Bush to reconvene his task force on terrorism to review our terrorist policy in light of the events that have occurred.
Third, in terms of the process of reaching national security decisions, I am adopting in total the Tower report's model of how the NSC process and staff should work.
I am directing  Carlucci to take the necessary steps to make that happen.
He will report back to me on further reforms that might be needed.
I have created the post of NSC legal adviser to assure a greater sensitivity to matters of law.
I am also determined to make the congressional oversight process work.
Proper procedures for consultation with the Congress will be followed, not only in letter but in spirit.
Before the end of March, I will report to the Congress on all the steps I have taken in line with the Tower board's conclusions.
Now, what should happen when you make a mistake is this: You take your knocks, you learn your lessons, and then you move on.
That's the healthiest way to deal with a problem.
This in no way diminishes the importance of the other continuing investigations, but the business of our country and our people must proceed.
I have gotten this message from Republicans and Democrats in Congress, from allies around the world, and  if we are reading the signals right  even from the Soviets.
And of course, I have heard the message from you, the American people.
You know, by the time you reach my age, you have made plenty of mistakes.
And if you have lived your life properly  so, you learn.
You put things in perspective.
You pull your energies together.
You change.
You go forward.
My fellow Americans, I have a great deal that I want to accomplish with you and for you over the next two years.
And the Lord willing, that is exactly what I intend to do.
Good night, and God bless you.
The President: Thank you all very much.
Welcome to the White House.
This ceremony and the treaty we are signing today are both excellent examples of the rewards of patience.
It was over 6 years ago, November 18, 1981, that I first proposed what would come to be called the zero option.
It was a simple proposal  one might say, disarmingly simple.
Unlike treaties in the past, it did not simply codify the status quo or a new arms buildup; it did not simply talk of controlling an arms race.
For the first time in history, the language of arms control was replaced by arms reduction  in this case, the complete elimination of an entire class of U.
S.
and Soviet nuclear missiles.
Of course, this required a dramatic shift in thinking, and it took conventional wisdom some time to catch up.
Reaction, to say the least, was mixed.
To some the zero option was impossibly visionary and unrealistic; to others merely a propaganda ploy.
Well, with patience, determination, and commitment, we have made this impossible vision a reality.
General Secretary Gorbachev, I am sure you are familiar with Ivan Krylov's famous tale about the swan, the crawfish, and the pike.
It seems that once upon a time these three were trying to move a wagonload together.
They hitched and harnessed themselves to the wagon.
It was not very heavy, but no matter how hard they worked, the wagon just would not move.
You see, the swan was flying upward; the crawfish kept crawling backward; the pike kept making for the water.
The end result was that they got nowhere, and the wagon is still there to this day.
Well, strong and fundamental moral differences continue to exist between our nations.
But today, on this vital issue, at least, we have seen what can be accomplished when we pull together.
The numbers alone demonstrate the value of this agreement.
On the Soviet side, over 1,500 deployed warheads will be removed, and all ground-launched intermediate-range missiles, including the SS-20's, will be destroyed.
On our side, our entire complement of Pershing II and ground-launched cruise missiles, with some 400 deployed warheads, will all be destroyed.
Additional backup missiles on both sides will also be destroyed.
But the importance of this treaty transcends numbers.
We have listened to the wisdom in an old Russian maxim.
And I am sure you are familiar with it,  General Secretary, though my pronunciation may give you difficulty.
The maxim is: Dovorey no provorey  trust, but verify.
The General Secretary: You repeat that at every meeting.
The President: I like it.
This agreement contains the most stringent verification regime in history, including provisions for inspection teams actually residing in each other's territory and several other forms of on-site inspection, as well.
This treaty protects the interests of America's friends and allies.
It also embodies another important principle: the need for glasnost, a greater openness in military programs and forces.
We can only hope that this history-making agreement will not be an end in itself but the beginning of a working relationship that will enable us to tackle the other urgent issues before us: strategic offensive nuclear weapons, the balance of conventional forces in Europe, the destructive and tragic regional conflicts that beset so many parts of our globe, and respect for the human and natural rights God has granted to all men.
To all here who have worked so hard to make this vision a reality: Thank you, and congratulations  above all to Ambassadors Glitman and Obukhov.
To quote another Russian proverb  as you can see, I am becoming quite an expert  in Russian proverbs: The harvest comes more from sweat than from the dew.
So, I am going to propose to General Secretary Gorbachev that we issue one last instruction to you: Get some well-deserved rest.
The General Secretary: We're not going to do that.
The President: Well, now,  General Secretary, would you like to say a few words before we sign the treaty?The General Secretary:  President, ladies and gentlemen, comrades, succeeding generations will hand down their verdict on the importance of the event which we are about to witness.
But I will venture to say that what we are going to do, the signing of the first-ever agreement eliminating nuclear weapons, has a universal significance for mankind, both from the standpoint of world politics and from the standpoint of humanism.
For everyone, and above all, for our two great powers, the treaty whose text is on this table offers a big chance at last to get onto the road leading away from the threat of catastrophe.
It is our duty to take full advantage of that chance and move together toward a nuclear-free world, which holds out for our children and grandchildren and for their children and grandchildren the promise of a fulfilling and happy life without fear and without a senseless waste of resources on weapons of destruction.
We can he proud of planting this sapling, which may one day grow into a mighty tree of peace.
But it is probably still too early to bestow laurels upon each other.
As the great American poet and philosopher Ralph Waldo Emerson said: The reward of a thing well done is to have done it.
So, let us reward ourselves by getting down to business.
We have covered a 7-year-long road, replete with intense work and debate.
One last step towards this table, and the treaty will be signed.
May December 8, 1987, become a date that will be inscribed in the history books, a date that will mark the watershed separating the era of a mounting risk of nuclear war from the era of a demilitarization of human life.
Good evening.
As I am speaking to you now, General Secretary Gorbachev is leaving on his return trip to the Soviet Union.
His departure marks the end of three historic days here in Washington in which  Gorbachev and I continued to build a foundation for better relations between our governments and our peoples.
During these three days we took a step  only a first step, but still a critical one  toward building a more durable peace, indeed, a step that may be the most important taken since World War II to slow down the arms buildup.
I am referring to the treaty that we signed Tuesday afternoon in the East Room of the White House.
I believe this treaty represents a landmark in postwar history, because it is not just an arms control but an arms reduction agreement.
Unlike treaties of the past, this agreement does not simply establish ceilings for new weapons: It actually reduces the number of such weapons.
In fact, it altogether abolishes an entire class of U.
S.
and Soviet nuclear missiles.
The verification measures in this treaty are also something new with far-reaching implications.
On-site inspections and short-notice inspections will be permitted within the Soviet Union.
Again, this is a first-time event, a breakthrough, and that is why I believe this treaty will not only lessen the threat of war, it can also speed along a process that may someday remove that threat entirely.
Indeed, this treaty, and all that we have achieved during this summit, signals a broader understanding between the United States and the Soviet Union.
It is an understanding that will help keep the peace as we work toward the ultimate goal of our foreign policy: a world where the people of every land can decide for themselves their form of government and way of life.
Yet as important as the INF treaty is, there is a further and even more crucial point about the last three days and the entire summit process: Soviet-American relations are no longer focused only on arms control issues.
They now cover a far broader agenda, one that has, at its root, realism and candor.
Let me explain this with a saying I have often repeated: Nations do not distrust each other because they are armed; they are armed because they distrust each other.
And just as real peace means the presence of freedom and justice as well as the absence of war, so, too, summits must be discussions not just about arms but about the fundamental differences that cause nations to be armed.
Dealing then with the deeper sources of conflict between nations and systems of government is a practical and moral imperative.
And that is why it was vital to establish a broader summit agenda, one that dealt not only with arms reductions but also people-to-people contacts between our nations and, most important, the issues of human rights and regional conflicts.
This is the summit agenda we have adopted.
By doing so, we have dealt not just with arms control issues but also with fundamental problems such as Soviet expansionism, human rights violations, as well as our own moral opposition to the ideology that justifies such practices.
In this way, we have put Soviet-American relations on a far more candid and far more realistic footing.
It also means that, while there is movement-indeed, dramatic movement  in the arms reduction area, much remains to be done in that area as well as in these other critical areas that I have mentioned, especially  and this goes without saying  in advancing our goal of a world open to the expansion of human freedom and the growth of democratic government.
So, much work lies ahead.
Let me explain: On the matter of regional conflicts, I spoke candidly with  Gorbachev on the issues of Afghanistan, Iran-Iraq, Cambodia, Angola, and Nicaragua.
I continue to have high hopes  and he assured me that he did too  that we can have real cooperation in resolving regional conflicts on terms that promote peace and freedom.
This is essential to a lasting improvement in our relations.
So, too, on human rights, there was some very limited movement: resolution of a number of individual eases in which prisoners will be released or exit visas granted.
There were assurances of future, more substantial movement, which we hope to see become a reality.
And finally, with regard to the last item on our agenda  scientific, educational, cultural, and economic exchanges  we agreed to expand cooperation in ways that will break down some of the artificial barriers between our nations.
For example, agreement was reached to expand and improve civil air service between our two countries.
But let me point out here that, while much work is ahead of us, the progress we have made, especially in arms reduction, does reflect a better understanding between ourselves and the Soviets.
It also reflects something deeper.
You see, since my first meeting with General Secretary Gorbachev in 1985, I have always regarded you, the American people, as full participants in our discussions.
Though it may surprise  Gorbachev to discover that all this time there has been a third party in the room with us, I do firmly believe the principal credit for the patience and persistence that brought success this year belongs to you, the American people.
Your support over these last seven years has laid the basis for these negotiations.
Your support made it possible for us to rebuild our military strength, to liberate Grenada, to strike hard against terrorism in Libya, and more recently to protect our strategic interests and bolster our friends in the Persian Gulf.
Your support made possible our policy of helping freedom fighters like those in Afghanistan, Nicaragua, Angola, Cambodia, and other places around the globe.
And when last year at Reykjavik I refused Soviet demands that we trade away SDI, our Strategic Defense Initiative that could erect a space shield against ballistic missiles, your overwhelming support made it clear to the Soviet leaders that the American people prefer no deal to a bad deal and will back their President on matters of national security.
In short, your support for our foreign policy goals  building a safer peace as we advance the cause of world freedom  has helped bring the Soviets to the bargaining table.
It makes it possible now to hope for a real, fundamental improvement in our relations.
You know, the question has often been asked whether democratic leaders who are accountable to their people are not at a grave disadvantage in negotiating with leaders of totalitarian States who bear no such burden.
Well, believe me, I think I can answer that question.
I can speak from personal experience.
Over the long run, no leader at the bargaining table can enjoy any greater advantage than the knowledge that he has behind him a people who are strong and free and alert and resolved to remain that way  people like you.
And it is this kind of informed and enlightened support, this hidden strength of democratic government, that enabled us to do what we did this week at the Washington summit.
Now that the treaty's been signed, it will be submitted to the Senate for the next step: the ratification process.
I will meet with the leadership of Congress here tomorrow morning, and I am confident that the Senate will now act in an expeditious way to fulfill its duty under our Constitution.
To this end, let me explain the background.
In the mid- and late-1970's the Soviets began to deploy hundreds of new, mobile intermediate-range missiles capable of destroying major cities and military installations in Europe and Asia.
This action was an unprovoked, new dimension of the threat against our friends and allies on both continents, a new threat to which the democratic nations had no comparable counter.
Despite intense pressure from the Soviets, NATO proceeded with what we called a two-track policy.
First, we would deploy a limited number of our own INF missiles as a deterrent, but at the same time push hard in negotiations to do away with this entirely new nuclear threat.
And we set out to do this with a formula I first put forward in 1981.
It was called the zero-option.
It meant the complete elimination of these missiles on both sides.
Well, at first, many called this a mere propaganda ploy, some even here in this country.
But we were persistent, our allies steadfast, and eventually the Soviets returned to the bargaining table.
The result is our INF treaty.
As you see from the map on the screen now, the Soviet missiles, which will be removed and eliminated under the treaty, have been a major threat to the security of our friends and allies on two continents, Europe and Asia.
Under the terms of this treaty, we will be eliminating 400 deployed warheads, while the Soviet Union eliminates 1,600, or four times as many.
Now, let me also point out that this does not, however, leave NATO unprotected.
In fact, we will maintain a substantial deterrent force on the ground, in the air, and at sea.
Our commitment to NATO's strategy of being able to respond as necessary to any form of aggression remains steadfast.
And with regard to verification, as I have mentioned, we have the breakthroughs of on-site inspections and short-notice inspections not only at potential missile deployment sites but at the facility where the Soviet SS-20 missiles and their components have been assembled.
We have a verification procedure that assures each side that the missiles of the other side have been destroyed and that new ones are not built.
Here, then, is a treaty that shows how persistence and consistency eventually can pay off in arms negotiations.
And let me assure you, too, that this treaty has been accomplished with unprecedented consultation with our allies and friends.
I have spoken personally with the leaders of the major democracies, as has Secretary Shultz and our diplomats.
This treaty has full allied support.
But if persistence is paying off in our arms reduction efforts, the question of human rights and regional conflicts are still problems in our relations.
But I am pleased that some progress has been made in these areas, also.
Now, in addition to these candid exchanges on our four-part agenda,  Gorbachev and I did do some important planning for a Moscow summit next year.
We agreed that we must redouble our efforts to reach agreements on reducing the levels of U.
S.
and Soviet long-range, or strategic, nuclear arms, as I have proposed in the START negotiations.
He and I made real progress toward our goal first agreed to at Geneva: to achieve deep, 50-percent cuts in our arsenals of those powerful weapons.
We agreed that we should build on our efforts to achieve agreement on a START treaty at the earliest possible date, and we have instructed our delegations in Geneva accordingly.
Now, I believe deep reductions in these offensive weapons, along with the development of SDI, would do much to make the world safer.
For that reason, I made it clear that our SDI program will continue and that when we have a defense ready to deploy we will do so.
About the future,  Gorbachev and I also agreed that as nuclear weapons are reduced it becomes all the more important to redress the disparities in conventional and chemical weapons, where the Soviets now enjoy significant advantages over the United States and our allies.
I think then from all of this you can see not only the direction of Soviet-American relations but the larger framework of American foreign policy.
As I told the British Parliament in 1982, we seek to rid the world of the two great nightmares of the postwar era: the threat of nuclear war and the threat of totalitarianism.
And that is why, by pursuing SDI, which is a defense against offensive missiles, and by going for arms reduction rather than just arms control, we are moving away from the so-called policy of mutual assured destruction, by which nations hold each other hostage to nuclear terror and destruction.
So, too, we are saying that the postwar policy of containment is no longer enough, that the goal of American foreign policy is both world peace and world freedom, that as a people we hope and will work for a day when all of God's children will enjoy the human dignity that their creator intended.
I believe we gained some ground with regard to that cause in these last few days.
Since my first days in office, I have argued that the future belongs not to repressive or totalitarian ways of life but to the cause of freedom  freedom of the marketplace, freedom to speak, assemble, and vote.
And when we see the progress of democracy in these last years, from Latin America to Asia, we must be optimistic about the future of our children.
When we were together in Iceland,  Gorbachev told me that this sort of talk is sometimes viewed in the Soviet Union as a threat, but I told him then and I have said since then that this is no threat at all but only a dream: the American dream.
And it is a dream that has meant so much to so many, a dream that still shines out to the world.
You know, a couple of years ago, Nancy and I were deeply moved by a story told by former New York Times reporter and Greek immigrant Nicholas Gage.
It's the story of Eleni, his mother, a woman caught in one of the terrible struggles of the postwar era, the Greek civil war at the end of World War II, a mother who was tried and executed because she smuggled her children out to safety in America.
It is also the story of how her son secretly vowed to return to Greece someday to take vengeance on the man who had sent his mother to her death.
But at the end of the story, Nicholas Gage finds he cannot extract the vengeance he promised himself.
Gage writes it would have relieved the pain that had filled him for so many years, but it would also have broken the one bridge still connecting him to his mother, that part of him most like her.
As he tells it:.
and her final cry was not a curse on her killers, but an invocation of what she had died for  a declaration of love.
These simple last words of  Gage's mother, of Eleni, were: My children.
How that cry echoes down through the centuries, a cry for all children of the world, a cry for peace, for a world of love and understanding.
And it is the hope of heeding such words  the call for freedom and peace spoken by a chosen people in a promised land, the call spoken by the Nazar carpenter  Nazarene carpenter, I should say, standing at the Sea of Galilee, the carpenter whose birth into the poverty of a stable we celebrate  it is these words that we remember as the holiday season approaches and we reflect on the events of this week here in Washington.
So, let us remember the children and the future we want for them.
And let us never forget that this promise of peace and freedom, the gift that is ours as Americans, the gift that we seek to share with all the world, depends for its strength on the spiritual source from which it comes.
So, during this holy season, let us also reflect that in the prayers of simple people there is more power and might than that possessed by all the great statesmen or armies of the Earth.
Let us then thank God for all His blessings to this nation, and ask Him for His help and guidance so that we might continue the work of peace and foster the hope of a world where human freedom is enshrined.
To sum up then: This summit was a clear success.
We made progress on each item in our four-part agenda.
Gorbachev and I have agreed to meet in several months in Moscow to continue what we have achieved during these past three days.
I believe there is reason for both hope and optimism.
Speaker,  President, and distinguished Members of the House and Senate:When we first met here seven years ago-many of us for the first time  it was with the hope of beginning something new for America.
We meet here tonight in this historic Chamber to continue that work.
If anyone expects just a proud recitation of the accomplishments of my administration, I say let us leave that to history; we are not finished yet.
So, my message to you tonight is put on your work shoes; we are still on the job.
History records the power of the ideas that brought us here those 7 years ago-ideas like the individual's right to reach as far and as high as his or her talents will permit; the free market as an engine of economic progress.
And as an ancient Chinese philosopher, Lao-tzu, said: Govern a great nation as you would cook a small fish; do not overdo it.
Well, these ideas were part of a larger notion, a vision, if you will, of America herself  an America not only rich in opportunity for the individual but an America, too, of strong families and vibrant neighborhoods; an America whose divergent but harmonizing communities were a reflection of a deeper community of values: the value of work, of family, of religion, and of the love of freedom that God places in each of us and whose defense He has entrusted in a special way to this nation.
All of this was made possible by an idea I spoke of when  Gorbachev was here-the belief that the most exciting revolution ever known to humankind began with three simple words: We the People, the revolutionary notion that the people grant government its rights, and not the other way around.
And there is one lesson that has come home powerfully to me, which I would offer to you now.
Just as those who created this Republic pledged to each other their lives, their fortunes, and their sacred honor, so, too, America's leaders today must pledge to each other that we will keep foremost in our hearts and minds not what is best for ourselves or for our party but what is best for America.
In the spirit of Jefferson, let us affirm that in this Chamber tonight there are no Republicans, no Democrats  just Americans.
Yes, we will have our differences, but let us always remember what unites us far outweighs whatever divides us.
Those who sent us here to serve them  the millions of Americans watching and listening tonight-expect this of us.
Let's prove to them and to ourselves that democracy works even in an election year.
We've done this before.
And as we have worked together to bring down spending, tax rates, and inflation, employment has climbed to record heights; America has created more jobs and better, higher paying jobs; family income has risen for 4 straight years, and America's poor climbed out of poverty at the fastest rate in more than 10 years.
Our record is not just the longest peacetime expansion in history but an economic and social revolution of hope based on work, incentives, growth, and opportunity; a revolution of compassion that led to private sector initiatives and a 77-percent increase in charitable giving; a revolution that at a critical moment in world history reclaimed and restored the American dream.
In international relations, too, there is only one description for what, together, we have achieved: a complete turnabout, a revolution.
Seven years ago, America was weak, and freedom everywhere was under siege.
Today America is strong, and democracy is everywhere on the move.
From Central America to East Asia, ideas like free markets and democratic reforms and human rights are taking hold.
We've replaced Blame America with Look up to America.
We've rebuilt our defenses.
And of all our accomplishments, none can give us more satisfaction than knowing that our young people are again proud to wear our country's uniform.
And in a few moments, I am going to talk about three developments  arms reduction, the Strategic Defense Initiative, and the global democratic revolution  that, when taken together, offer a chance none of us would have dared imagine 7 years ago, a chance to rid the world of the two great nightmares of the postwar era.
I speak of the startling hope of giving our children a future free of both totalitarianism and nuclear terror.
Tonight, then, we are strong, prosperous, at peace, and we are free.
This is the state of our Union.
And if we will work together this year, I believe we can give a future President and a future Congress the chance to make that prosperity, that peace, that freedom not just the state of our Union but the state of our world.
Toward this end, we have four basic objectives tonight.
First, steps we can take this year to keep our economy strong and growing, to give our children a future of low inflation and full employment.
Second, let us check our progress in attacking social problems, where important gains have been made, but which still need critical attention.
I mean schools that work, economic independence for the poor, restoring respect for family life and family values.
Our third objective tonight is global: continuing the exciting economic and democratic revolutions we have seen around the world.
Fourth and finally, our nation has remained at peace for nearly a decade and a half, as we move toward our goals of world prosperity and world freedom.
We must protect that peace and deter war by making sure the next President inherits what you and I have a moral obligation to give that President: a national security that is unassailable and a national defense that takes full advantage of new technology and is fully funded.
This is a full agenda.
It's meant to be.
You see, my thinking on the next year is quite simple: Let's make this the best of 8.
And that means it is all out  right to the finish line.
I do not buy the idea that this is the last year of anything, because we are not talking here tonight about registering temporary gains but ways of making permanent our successes.
And that is why our focus is the values, the principles, and ideas that made America great.
Let's be clear on this point.
We're for limited government, because we understand, as the Founding Fathers did, that it is the best way of ensuring personal liberty and empowering the individual so that every American of every race and region shares fully in the flowering of American prosperity and freedom.
One other thing we Americans like  the future  like the sound of it, the idea of it, the hope of it.
Where others fear trade and economic growth, we see opportunities for creating new wealth and undreamed-of opportunities for millions in our own land and beyond.
Where others seek to throw up barriers, we seek to bring them down.
Where others take counsel of their fears, we follow our hopes.
Yes, we Americans like the future and like making the most of it.
Let's do that now.
And let us begin by discussing how to maintain economic growth by controlling and eventually eliminating the problem of Federal deficits.
We have had a balanced budget only eight times in the last 57 years.
For the first time in 14 years, the Federal Government spent less in real terms last year than the year before.
We took $73 billion off last year's deficit compared to the year before.
The deficit itself has moved from 6.
3 percent of the gross national product to only 3.
4 percent.
And perhaps the most important sign of progress has been the change in our view of deficits.
You know, a few of us can remember when, not too many years ago, those who created the deficits said they would make us prosperous and not to worry about the debt, because we owe it to ourselves.
Well, at last there is agreement that we cannot spend ourselves rich.
Our recent budget agreement, designed to reduce Federal deficits by $76 billion over the next 2 years, builds on this consensus.
But this agreement must be adhered to without slipping into the errors of the past: more broken promises and more unchecked spending.
As I indicated in my first State of the Union, what ails us can be simply put: The Federal Government is too big, and it spends too much money.
I can assure you, the bipartisan leadership of Congress, of my help in fighting off any attempt to bust our budget agreement.
And this includes the swift and certain use of the veto power.
Now, it is also time for some plain talk about the most immediate obstacle to controlling Federal deficits.
The simple but frustrating problem of making expenses match revenues  something American families do and the Federal Government cannot  has caused crisis after crisis in this city.
Speaker,  President, I will say to you tonight what I have said before and will continue to say: The budget process has broken down; it needs a drastic overhaul.
With each ensuing year, the spectacle before the American people is the same as it was this Christmas: budget deadlines delayed or missed completely, monstrous continuing resolutions that pack hundreds of billions of dollars worth of spending into one bill, and a Federal Government on the brink of default.
I know I am echoing what you here in the Congress have said, because you suffered so directly.
But let us recall that in 7 years, of 91 appropriations bills scheduled to arrive on my desk by a certain date, only 10 made it on time.
Last year, of the 13 appropriations bills due by October 1st, none of them made it.
Instead, we had four continuing resolutions lasting 41 days, then 36 days, and 2 days, and 3 days, respectively.
And then, along came these behemoths.
This is the conference report  1,053 pages, report weighing 14 pounds.
Then this  a reconciliation bill 6 months late that was 1,186 pages long, weighing 15 pounds.
And the long-term continuing resolution  this one was 2 months late, and it is 1,057 pages long, weighing 14 pounds.
That was a total of 43 pounds of paper and ink.
You had 3 hours  yes, 3 hours  to consider each, and it took 300 people at my Office of Management and Budget just to read the bill so the Government would not shut down.
Congress should not send another one of these.
No, and if you do, I will not sign it.
Let's change all this.
Instead of a Presidential budget that gets discarded and a congressional budget resolution that is not enforced, why not a simple partnership, a joint agreement that sets out the spending priorities within the available revenues? And let us remember our deadline is October 1st, not Christmas.
Let's get the people's work done in time to avoid a footrace with Santa Claus.
And, yes, this year  to coin a phrase  a new beginning: 13 individual bills, on time and fully reviewed by Congress.
I am also certain you join me in saying: Let's help ensure our future of prosperity by giving the President a tool that, though I will not get to use it, is one I know future Presidents of either party must have.
Give the President the same authority that 43 Governors use in their States: the right to reach into massive appropriation bills, pare away the waste, and enforce budget discipline.
Let's approve the line-item veto.
And let us take a partial step in this direction.
Most of you in this Chamber did not know what was in this catchall bill and report.
Over the past few weeks, we have all learned what was tucked away behind a little comma here and there.
For example, there is millions for items such as cranberry research, blueberry research, the study of crawfish, and the commercialization of wildflowers.
And that is not to mention the five or so million  that  so that people from developing nations could come here to watch Congress at work.
I will not even touch that.
So, tonight I offer you this challenge.
In 30 days I will send back to you those items as rescissions, which if I had the authority to line them out I would do so.
Now, review this multibillion-dollar package that will not undercut our bipartisan budget agreement.
As a matter of fact, if adopted, it will improve our deficit reduction goals.
And what an example we can set, that we are serious about getting our financial accounts in order.
By acting and approving this plan, you have the opportunity to override a congressional process that is out of control.
There is another vital reform.
Yes, Gramm-Rudman-Hollings has been profoundly helpful, but let us take its goal of a balanced budget and make it permanent.
Let us do now what so many States do to hold down spending and what 32 State legislatures have asked us to do.
Let us heed the wishes of an overwhelming plurality of Americans and pass a constitutional amendment that mandates a balanced budget and forces the Federal Government to live within its means.
Reform of the budget process  including the line-item veto and balanced budget amendment  will, together with real restraint on government spending, prevent the Federal budget from ever again ravaging the family budget.
Let's ensure that the Federal Government never again legislates against the family and the home.
Last September I signed an Executive order on the family requiring that every department and agency review its activities in light of seven standards designed to promote and not harm the family.
But let us make certain that the family is always at the center of the public policy process not just in this administration but in all future administrations.
It's time for Congress to consider, at the beginning, a statement of the impact that legislation will have on the basic unit of American society, the family.
And speaking of the family, let us turn to a matter on the mind of every American parent tonight: education.
We all know the sorry story of the sixties and seventies-soaring spending, plummeting test scores-and that hopeful trend of the eighties, when we replaced an obsession with dollars with a commitment to quality, and test scores started back up.
There's a lesson here that we all should write on the blackboard a hundred times: In a child's education, money can never take the place of basics like discipline, hard work, and, yes, homework.
As a nation we do, of course, spend heavily on education  more than we spend on defense.
Yet across our country, Governors like New Jersey's Tom Kean are giving classroom demonstrations that how we spend is as important as how much we spend.
Opening up the teaching profession to all qualified candidates, merit pay  so that good teachers get A's as well as apples  and stronger curriculum, as Secretary Bennett has proposed for high schools  these imaginative reforms are making common sense the most popular new kid in America's schools.
How can we help? Well, we can talk about and push for these reforms.
But the most important thing we can do is to reaffirm that control of our schools belongs to the States, local communities and, most of all, to the parents and teachers.
My friends, some years ago, the Federal Government declared war on poverty, and poverty won.
Today the Federal Government has 59 major welfare programs and spends more than $100 billion a year on them.
What has all this money done? Well, too often it has only made poverty harder to escape.
Federal welfare programs have created a massive social problem.
With the best of intentions, government created a poverty trap that wreaks havoc on the very support system the poor need most to lift themselves out of poverty: the family.
Dependency has become the one enduring heirloom, passed from one generation to the next, of too many fragmented families.
It is time  this may be the most radical thing I have said in 7 years in this office  it is time for Washington to show a little humility.
There are a thousand sparks of genius in 50 States and a thousand communities around the Nation.
It is time to nurture them and see which ones can catch fire and become guiding lights.
States have begun to show us the way.
They've demonstrated that successful welfare programs can be built around more effective child support enforcement practices and innovative programs requiring welfare recipients to work or prepare for work.
Let us give the States more flexibility and encourage more reforms.
Let's start making our welfare system the first rung on America's ladder of opportunity, a boost up from dependency, not a graveyard but a birthplace of hope.
And now let me turn to three other matters vital to family values and the quality of family life.
The first is an untold American success story.
Recently, we released our annual survey of what graduating high school seniors have to say about drugs.
Cocaine use is declining, and marijuana use was the lowest since surveying began.
We can be proud that our students are just saying no to drugs.
But let us remember what this menace requires: commitment from every part of America and every single American, a commitment to a drugfree America.
The war against drugs is a war of individual battles, a crusade with many heroes, including America's young people and also someone very special to me.
She has helped so many of our young people to say no to drugs.
Nancy, much credit belongs to you, and I want to express to you your husband's pride and your country's thanks.
Surprised you, did not I? Well, now we come to a family issue that we must have the courage to confront.
Tonight, I call America  a good nation, a moral people  to charitable but realistic consideration of the terrible cost of abortion on demand.
To those who say this violates a woman's right to control of her own body: Can they deny that now medical evidence confirms the unborn child is a living human being entitled to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness? Let us unite as a nation and protect the unborn with legislation that would stop all Federal funding for abortion and with a human life amendment making, of course, an exception where the unborn child threatens the life of the mother.
Our Judeo-Christian tradition recognizes the right of taking a life in self-defense.
But with that one exception, let us look to those others in our land who cry out for children to adopt.
I pledge to you tonight I will work to remove barriers to adoption and extend full sharing in family life to millions of Americans so that children who need homes can be welcomed to families who want them and love them.
And let me add here: So many of our greatest statesmen have reminded us that spiritual values alone are essential to our nation's health and vigor.
The Congress opens its proceedings each day, as does the Supreme Court, with an acknowledgment of the Supreme Being.
Yet we are denied the right to set aside in our schools a moment each day for those who wish to pray.
I believe Congress should pass our school prayer amendment.
Now, to make sure there is a full nine member Supreme Court to interpret the law, to protect the rights of all Americans, I urge the Senate to move quickly and decisively in confirming Judge Anthony Kennedy to the highest Court in the land and to also confirm 27 nominees now waiting to fill vacancies in the Federal judiciary.
Here then are our domestic priorities.
Yet if the Congress and the administration work together, even greater opportunities lie ahead to expand a growing world economy, to continue to reduce the threat of nuclear arms, and to extend the frontiers of freedom and the growth of democratic institutions.
Our policies consistently received the strongest support of the late Congressman Dan Daniel of Virginia.
I am sure all of you join me in expressing heartfelt condolences on his passing.
One of the greatest contributions the United States can make to the world is to promote freedom as the key to economic growth.
A creative, competitive America is the answer to a changing world, not trade wars that would close doors, create greater barriers, and destroy millions of jobs.
We should always remember: Protectionism is destructionism.
America's jobs, America's growth, America's future depend on trade  trade that is free, open, and fair.
This year, we have it within our power to take a major step toward a growing global economy and an expanding cycle of prosperity that reaches to all the free nations of this Earth.
I am speaking of the historic free trade agreement negotiated between our country and Canada.
And I can also tell you that we are determined to expand this concept, south as well as north.
Next month I will be traveling to Mexico, where trade matters will be of foremost concern.
And over the next several months, our Congress and the Canadian Parliament can make the start of such a North American accord a reality.
Our goal must be a day when the free flow of trade, from the tip of Tierra del Fuego to the Arctic Circle, unites the people of the Western Hemisphere in a bond of mutually beneficial exchange, when all borders become what the U.
S.
-Canadian border so long has been: a meeting place rather than a dividing line.
This movement we see in so many places toward economic freedom is indivisible from the worldwide movement toward political freedom and against totalitarian rule.
This global democratic revolution has removed the specter, so frightening a decade ago, of democracy doomed to permanent minority status in the world.
In South and Central America, only a third of the people enjoyed democratic rule in 1976.
Today over 90 percent of Latin Americans live in nations committed to democratic principles.
And the resurgence of democracy is owed to these courageous people on almost every continent who have struggled to take control of their own destiny.
In Nicaragua the struggle has extra meaning, because that nation is so near our own borders.
The recent revelations of a former high-level Sandinista major, Roger Miranda, show us that, even as they talk peace, the Communist Sandinista government of Nicaragua has established plans for a large 600,000-man army.
Yet even as these plans are made, the Sandinista regime knows the tide is turning, and the cause of Nicaraguan freedom is riding at its crest.
Because of the freedom fighters, who are resisting Communist rule, the Sandinistas have been forced to extend some democratic rights, negotiate with church authorities, and release a few political prisoners.
The focus is on the Sandinistas, their promises and their actions.
There is a consensus among the four Central American democratic Presidents that the Sandinistas have not complied with the plan to bring peace and democracy to all of Central America.
The Sandinistas again have promised reforms.
Their challenge is to take irreversible steps toward democracy.
On Wednesday my request to sustain the freedom fighters will be submitted, which reflects our mutual desire for peace, freedom, and democracy in Nicaragua.
I ask Congress to pass this request.
Let us be for the people of Nicaragua what Lafayette, Pulaski, and Von Steuben were for our forefathers and the cause of American independence.
So, too, in Afghanistan, the freedom fighters are the key to peace.
We support the Mujahidin.
There can be no settlement unless all Soviet troops are removed and the Afghan people are allowed genuine self-determination.
I have made my views on this matter known to  Gorbachev.
But not just Nicaragua or Afghanistan  yes, everywhere we see a swelling freedom tide across the world: freedom fighters rising up in Cambodia and Angola, fighting and dying for the same democratic liberties we hold sacred.
Their cause is our cause: freedom.
Yet even as we work to expand world freedom, we must build a safer peace and reduce the danger of nuclear war.
But let us have no illusions.
Three years of steady decline in the value of our annual defense investment have increased the risk of our most basic security interests, jeopardizing earlier hard-won goals.
We must face squarely the implications of this negative trend and make adequate, stable defense spending a top goal both this year and in the future.
This same concern applies to economic and security assistance programs as well.
But the resolve of America and its NATO allies has opened the way for unprecedented achievement in arms reduction.
Our recently signed INF treaty is historic, because it reduces nuclear arms and establishes the most stringent verification regime in arms control history, including several forms of short-notice, on-site inspection.
I submitted the treaty today, and I urge the Senate to give its advice and consent to ratification of this landmark agreement.
Thank you very much.
In addition to the INF treaty, we are within reach of an even more significant START agreement that will reduce U.
S.
and Soviet long-range missile  or strategic arsenals by half.
But let me be clear.
Our approach is not to seek agreement for agreement's sake but to settle only for agreements that truly enhance our national security and that of our allies.
We will never put our security at risk  or that of our allies-just to reach an agreement with the Soviets.
No agreement is better than a bad agreement.
As I mentioned earlier, our efforts are to give future generations what we never had  a future free of nuclear terror.
Reduction of strategic offensive arms is one step, SDI another.
Our funding request for our Strategic Defense Initiative is less than 2 percent of the total defense budget.
SDI funding is money wisely appropriated and money well spent.
SDI has the same purpose and supports the same goals of arms reduction.
It reduces the risk of war and the threat of nuclear weapons to all mankind.
Strategic defenses that threaten no one could offer the world a safer, more stable basis for deterrence.
We must also remember that SDI is our insurance policy against a nuclear accident, a Chernobyl of the sky, or an accidental launch or some madman who might come along.
We've seen such changes in the world in 7 years.
As totalitarianism struggles to avoid being overwhelmed by the forces of economic advance and the aspiration for human freedom, it is the free nations that are resilient and resurgent.
As the global democratic revolution has put totalitarianism on the defensive, we have left behind the days of retreat.
America is again a vigorous leader of the free world, a nation that acts decisively and firmly in the furtherance of her principles and vital interests.
No legacy would make me more proud than leaving in place a bipartisan consensus for the cause of world freedom, a consensus that prevents a paralysis of American power from ever occurring again.
But my thoughts tonight go beyond this, and I hope you will let me end this evening with a personal reflection.
You know, the world could never be quite the same again after Jacob Shallus, a trustworthy and dependable clerk of the Pennsylvania General Assembly, took his pen and engrossed those words about representative government in the preamble of our Constitution.
And in a quiet but final way, the course of human events was forever altered when, on a ridge overlooking the Emmitsburg Pike in an obscure Pennsylvania town called Gettysburg, Lincoln spoke of our duty to government of and by the people and never letting it perish from the Earth.
At the start of this decade, I suggested that we live in equally momentous times, that it is up to us now to decide whether our form of government would endure and whether history still had a place of greatness for a quiet, pleasant, greening land called America.
Not everything has been made perfect in 7 years, nor will it be made perfect in seven times 70 years, but before us, this year and beyond, are great prospects for the cause of peace and world freedom.
It means, too, that the young Americans I spoke of 7 years ago, as well as those who might be coming along the Virginia or Maryland shores this night and seeing for the first time the lights of this Capital City  the lights that cast their glow on our great halls of government and the monuments to the memory of our great men  it means those young Americans will find a city of hope in a land that is free.
We can be proud that for them and for us, as those lights along the Potomac are still seen this night signaling as they have for nearly two centuries and as we pray God they always will, that another generation of Americans has protected and passed on lovingly this place called America, this shining city on a hill, this government of, by, and for the people.
Thank you, and God bless you.
Thank you, Rector Logunov, and I want to thank all of you very much for a very warm welcome.
It's a great pleasure to be here at Moscow State University, and I want to thank you all for turning out.
I know you must be very busy this week, studying and taking your final examinations.
So, let me just say zhelayu yam uspekha.
Nancy could not make it today because she is visiting Leningrad, which she tells me is a very beautiful city, but she, too, says hello and wishes you all good luck.
Let me say it is also a great pleasure to once again have this opportunity to speak directly to the people of the Soviet Union.
Before I left Washington, I received many heartfelt letters and telegrams asking me to carry here a simple message, perhaps, but also some of the most important business of this summit: It is a message of peace and good will and hope for a growing friendship and closeness between our two peoples.
As you know, I have come to Moscow to meet with one of your most distinguished graduates.
In this, our fourth summit, General Secretary Gorbachev and I have spent many hours together, and I feel that we are getting to know each other well.
Our discussions, of course, have been focused primarily on many of the important issues of the day, issues I want to touch on with you in a few moments.
But first I want to take a little time to talk to you much as I would to any group of university students in the United States.
I want to talk not just of the realities of today but of the possibilities of tomorrow.
Standing here before a mural of your revolution, I want to talk about a very different revolution that is taking place right now, quietly sweeping the globe without bloodshed or conflict.
Its effects are peaceful, but they will fundamentally alter our world, shatter old assumptions, and reshape our lives.
It's easy to underestimate because it is not accompanied by banners or fanfare.
It's been called the technological or information revolution, and as its emblem, one might take the tiny silicon chip, no bigger than a fingerprint.
One of these chips has more computing power than a roomful of old-style computers.
As part of an exchange program, we now have an exhibition touring your country that shows how information technology is transforming our lives  replacing manual labor with robots, forecasting weather for farmers, or mapping the genetic code of DNA for medical researchers.
These microcomputers today aid the design of everything from houses to ears to spacecraft; they even design better and faster computers.
They can translate English into Russian or enable the blind to read or help Michael Jackson produce on one synthesizer the sounds of a whole orchestra.
Linked by a network of satellites and fiber-optic cables, one individual with a desktop computer and a telephone commands resources unavailable to the largest governments just a few years ago.
Like a chrysalis, we are emerging from the economy of the Industrial Revolution  an economy confined to and limited by the Earth's physical resources  into, as one economist titled his book, The Economy in Mind, in which there are no bounds on human imagination and the freedom to create is the most precious natural resource.
Think of that little computer chip.
Its value is not in the sand from which it is made but in the microscopic architecture designed into it by ingenious human minds.
Or take the example of the satellite relaying this broadcast around the world, which replaces thousands of tons of copper mined from the Earth and molded into wire.
In the new economy, human invention increasingly makes physical resources obsolete.
We're breaking through the material conditions of existence to a world where man creates his own destiny.
Even as we explore the most advanced reaches of science, we are returning to the age-old wisdom of our culture, a wisdom contained in the book of Genesis in the Bible: In the beginning was the spirit, and it was from this spirit that the material abundance of creation issued forth.
But progress is not foreordained.
The key is freedom  freedom of thought, freedom of information, freedom of communication.
The renowned scientist, scholar, and founding father of this university, Mikhail Lomonosov, knew that.
It is common knowledge, he said, that the achievements of science are considerable and rapid, particularly once the yoke of slavery is cast off and replaced by the freedom of philosophy.
You know, one of the first contacts between your country and mine took place between Russian and American explorers.
The Americans were members of Cook's last voyage on an expedition searching for an Arctic passage; on the island of Unalaska, they came upon the Russians, who took them in, and together with the native inhabitants, held a prayer service on the ice.
The explorers of the modern era are the entrepreneurs, men with vision, with the courage to take risks and faith enough to brave the unknown.
These entrepreneurs and their small enterprises are responsible for almost all the economic growth in the United States.
They are the prime movers of the technological revolution.
In fact, one of the largest personal computer firms in the United States was started by two college students, no older than you, in the garage behind their home.
Some people, even in my own country, look at the riot of experiment that is the free market and see only waste.
What of all the entrepreneurs that fail? Well, many do, particularly the successful ones; often several times.
And if you ask them the secret of their success, they will tell you it is all that they learned in their struggles along the way; yes, it is what they learned from failing.
Like an athlete in competition or a scholar in pursuit of the truth, experience is the greatest teacher.
And that is why it is so hard for government planners, no matter how sophisticated, to ever substitute for millions of individuals working night and day to make their dreams come true.
The fact is, bureaucracies are a problem around the world.
There's an old story about a town  it could be anywhere  with a bureaucrat who is known to be a good-for-nothing, but he somehow had always hung on to power.
So one day, in a town meeting, an old woman got up and said to him: There is a folk legend here where I come from that when a baby is born, an angel comes down from heaven and kisses it on one part of its body.
If the angel kisses him on his hand, he becomes a handyman.
If he kisses him on his forehead, he becomes bright and clever.
And I have been trying to figure out where the angel kissed you so that you should sit there for so long and do nothing.
We are seeing the power of economic freedom spreading around the world.
Places such as the Republic of Korea, Singapore, Taiwan have vaulted into the technological era, barely pausing in the industrial age along the way.
Low-tax agricultural policies in the subcontinent mean that in some years India is now a net exporter of food.
Perhaps most exciting are the winds of change that are blowing over the People's Republic of China, where one-quarter of the world's population is now getting its first taste of economic freedom.
At the same time, the growth of democracy has become one of the most powerful political movements of our age.
In Latin America in the 1970s, only a third of the population lived under democratic government; today over 90 percent does.
In the Philippines, in the Republic of Korea, free, contested, democratic elections are the order of the day.
Throughout the world, free markets are the model for growth.
Democracy is the standard by which governments are measured.
We Americans make no secret of our belief in freedom.
In fact, it is something of a national pastime.
Every four years the American people choose a new President, and 1988 is one of those years.
At one point there were 13 major candidates running in the two major parties, not to mention all the others, including the Socialist and Libertarian candidates  all trying to get my job.
About 1,000 local television stations, 8,500 radio stations, and 1,700 daily newspapers  each one an independent, private enterprise, fiercely independent of the Government  report on the candidates, grill them in interviews, and bring them together for debates.
In the end, the people vote; they decide who will be the next President.
But freedom does not begin or end with elections.
Go to any American town, to take just an example, and you will see dozens of churches, representing many different beliefs  in many places, synagogues and mosques  and you will see families of every conceivable nationality worshiping together.
Go into any schoolroom, and there you will see children being taught the Declaration of Independence, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable rights  among them life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness  that no government can justly deny; the guarantees in their Constitution for freedom of speech, freedom of assembly, and freedom of religion.
Go into any courtroom, and there will preside an independent judge, beholden to no government power.
There every defendant has the right to a trial by a jury of his peers, usually 12 men and women  common citizens; they are the ones, the only ones, who weigh the evidence and decide on guilt or innocence.
In that court, the accused is innocent until proven guilty, and the word of a policeman or any official has no greater legal standing than the word of the accused.
Go to any university campus, and there you will find an open, sometimes heated discussion of the problems in American society and what can be done to correct them.
Turn on the television, and you will see the legislature conducting the business of government right there before the camera, debating and voting on the legislation that will become the law of the land.
March in any demonstration, and there are many of them; the people's right of assembly is guaranteed in the Constitution and protected by the police.
Go into any union hall, where the members know their right to strike is protected by law.
As a matter of fact, one of the many jobs I had before this one was being president of a union, the Screen Actors Guild.
I led my union out on strike, and I am proud to say we won.
But freedom is more even than this.
Freedom is the right to question and change the established way of doing things.
It is the continuing revolution of the marketplace.
It is the understanding that allows us to recognize shortcomings and seek solutions.
It is the right to put forth an idea, scoffed at by the experts, and watch it catch fire among the people.
It is the right to dream  to follow your dream or stick to your conscience, even if you are the only one in a sea of doubters.
Freedom is the recognition that no single person, no single authority or government has a monopoly on the truth, but that every individual life is infinitely precious, that every one of us put on this world has been put there for a reason and has something to offer.
America is a nation made up of hundreds of nationalities.
Our ties to you are more than ones of good feeling; they are ties of kinship.
In America, you will find Russians, Armenians, Ukrainians, peoples from Eastern Europe and Central Asia.
They come from every part of this vast continent, from every continent, to live in harmony, seeking a place where each cultural heritage is respected, each is valued for its diverse strengths and beauties and the richness it brings to our lives.
Recently, a few individuals and families have been allowed to visit relatives in the West.
We can only hope that it will not be long before all are allowed to do so and Ukrainian-Americans, Baltic-Americans, Armenian-Americans can freely visit their homelands, just as this Irish-American visits his.
Freedom, it has been said, makes people selfish and materialistic, but Americans are one of the most religious peoples on Earth.
Because they know that liberty, just as life itself, is not earned but a gift from God, they seek to share that gift with the world.
Reason and experience, said George Washington in his farewell address, both forbid us to expect that national morality can prevail in exclusion of religious principle.
And it is substantially true, that virtue or morality is a necessary spring of popular government.
Democracy is less a system of government than it is a system to keep government limited, unintrusive; a system of constraints on power to keep politics and government secondary to the important things in life, the true sources of value found only in family and faith.
But I hope you know I go on about these things not simply to extol the virtues of my own country but to speak to the true greatness of the heart and soul of your land.
Who, after all, needs to tell the land of Dostoyevsky about the quest for truth, the home of Kandinsky and Scriabin about imagination, the rich and noble culture of the Uzbek man of letters Alisher Navoi about beauty and heart? The great culture of your diverse land speaks with a glowing passion to all humanity.
Let me cite one of the most eloquent contemporary passages on human freedom.
It comes, not from the literature of America, but from this country, from one of the greatest writers of the 20th century, Boris Pasternak, in the novel  Zhivago.
He writes: I think that if the beast who sleeps in man could be held down by threats  any kind of threat, whether of jail or of retribution after death  then the highest emblem of humanity would be the lion tamer in the circus with his whip, not the prophet who sacrificed himself.
But this is just the point  what has for centuries raised man above the beast is not the cudgel, but an inward music  the irresistible power of unarmed truth.
The irresistible power of unarmed truth.
Today the world looks expectantly to signs of change, steps toward greater freedom in the Soviet Union.
We watch and we hope as we see positive changes taking place.
There are some, I know, in your society who fear that change will bring only disruption and discontinuity, who fear to embrace the hope of the future  sometimes it takes faith.
It's like that scene in the cowboy movie Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid, which some here in Moscow recently had a chance to see.
The posse is closing in on the two outlaws, Butch and Sundance, who find themselves trapped on the edge of a cliff, with a sheer drop of hundreds of feet to the raging rapids below.
Butch turns to Sundance and says their only hope is to jump into the river below, but Sundance refuses.
He says he had rather fight it out with the posse, even though they are hopelessly outnumbered.
Butch says that is suicide and urges him to jump, but Sundance still refuses and finally admits, I cannot swim.
Butch breaks up laughing and says, You crazy fool, the fall will probably kill you.
And, by the way, both Butch and Sundance made it, in case you did not see the movie.
I think what I have just been talking about is perestroika and what its goals are.
But change would not mean rejection of the past.
Like a tree growing strong through the seasons, rooted in the Earth and drawing life from the sun, so, too, positive change must be rooted in traditional values  in the land, in culture, in family and community  and it must take its life from the eternal things, from the source of all life, which is faith.
Such change will lead to new understandings, new opportunities, to a broader future in which the tradition is not supplanted but finds its full flowering.
That is the future beckoning to your generation.
At the same time, we should remember that reform that is not institutionalized will always be insecure.
Such freedom will always be looking over its shoulder.
A bird on a tether, no matter how long the rope, can always be pulled back.
And that is why, in my conversation with General Secretary Gorbachev, I have spoken of how important it is to institutionalize change  to put guarantees on reform.
And we have been talking together about one sad reminder of a divided world: the Berlin Wall.
It's time to remove the barriers that keep people apart.
I am proposing an increased exchange program of high school students between our countries.
General Secretary Gorbachev mentioned on Sunday a wonderful phrase you have in Russian for this: Better to see something once than to hear about it a hundred times.
Gorbachev and I first began working on this in 1985.
In our discussion today, we agreed on working up to several thousand exchanges a year from each country in the near future.
But not everyone can travel across the continents and oceans.
Words travel lighter, and that is why we had like to make available to this country more of our 11,000 magazines and periodicals and our television and radio shows that can be beamed off a satellite in seconds.
Nothing would please us more than for the Soviet people to get to know us better and to understand our way of life.
Just a few years ago, few would have imagined the progress our two nations have made together.
The INF treaty, which General Secretary Gorbachev and I signed last December in Washington and whose instruments of ratification we will exchange tomorrow  the first true nuclear arms reduction treaty in history, calling for the elimination of an entire class of U.
S.
and Soviet nuclear missiles.
And just 16 days ago, we saw the beginning of your withdrawal from Afghanistan, which gives us hope that soon the fighting may end and the healing may begin and that that suffering country may find self-determination, unity, and peace at long last.
It's my fervent hope that our constructive cooperation on these issues will be carried on to address the continuing destruction and conflicts in many regions of the globe and that the serious discussions that led to the Geneva accords on Afghanistan will help lead to solutions in southern Africa, Ethiopia, Cambodia, the Persian Gulf, and Central America.
I have often said: Nations do not distrust each other because they are armed; they are armed because they distrust each other.
If this globe is to live in peace and prosper, if it is to embrace all the possibilities of the technological revolution, then nations must renounce, once and for all, the right to an expansionist foreign policy.
Peace between nations must be an enduring goal, not a tactical stage in a continuing conflict.
I have been told that there is a popular song in your country  perhaps you know it  whose evocative refrain asks the question, Do the Russians want a war? In answer it says: Go ask that silence lingering in the air, above the birch and poplar there; beneath those trees the soldiers lie.
Go ask my mother, ask my wife; then you will have to ask no more, 'Do the Russians want a war?' But what of your one-time allies? What of those who embraced you on the Elbe? What if we were to ask the watery graves of the Pacific or the European battlefields where America's fallen were buried far from home? What if we were to ask their mothers, sisters, and sons, do Americans want war? Ask us, too, and you will find the same answer, the same longing in every heart.
People do not make wars; governments do.
And no mother would ever willingly sacrifice her sons for territorial gain, for economic advantage, for ideology.
A people free to choose will always choose peace.
Americans seek always to make friends of old antagonists.
After a colonial revolution with Britain, we have cemented for all ages the ties of kinship between our nations.
After a terrible Civil War between North and South, we healed our wounds and found true unity as a nation.
We fought two world wars in my lifetime against Germany and one with Japan, but now the Federal Republic of Germany and Japan are two of our closest allies and friends.
Some people point to the trade disputes between us as a sign of strain, but they are the frictions of all families, and the family of free nations is a big and vital and sometimes boisterous one.
I can tell you that nothing would please my heart more than in my lifetime to see American and Soviet diplomats grappling with the problem of trade disputes between America and a growing, exuberant, exporting Soviet Union that had opened up to economic freedom and growth.
And as important as these official people-to-people exchanges are, nothing would please me more than for them to become unnecessary, to see travel between East and West become so routine that university students in the Soviet Union could take a month off in the summer and, just like students in the West do now, put packs on their backs and travel from country to country in Europe with barely a passport cheek in between.
Nothing would please me more than to see the day that a concert promoter in, say, England could call up a Soviet rock group, without going through any government agency, and have them playing in Liverpool the next night.
Is this just a dream? Perhaps, but it is a dream that is our responsibility to have come true.
Your generation is living in one of the most exciting, hopeful times in Soviet history.
It is a time when the first breath of freedom stirs the air and the heart beats to the accelerated rhythm of hope, when the accumulated spiritual energies of a long silence yearn to break free.
I am reminded of the famous passage near the end of Gogol's Dead Souls.
Comparing his nation to a speeding troika, Gogol asks what will be its destination.
But he writes, There was no answer save the bell pouring forth marvelous sound.
We do not know what the conclusion will be of this journey, but we are hopeful that the promise of reform will be fulfilled.
In this Moscow spring, this May 1988, we may be allowed that hope: that freedom, like the fresh green sapling planted over Tolstoy's grave, will blossom forth at last in the rich fertile soil of your people and culture.
We may be allowed to hope that the marvelous sound of a new openness will keep rising through, ringing through, leading to a new world of reconciliation, friendship, and peace.
Thank you all very much, and da blagoslovit vas gospod  God bless you.
Logunov: Dear friends,  President has kindly agreed to answer your questions.
But since he does not have too much time, only 15 minutes  so, those who have questions, please ask them.
Strategic Arms Reductions  Q: And this is a student from the history faculty, and he says that he is happy to welcome you on behalf of the students of the university.
And the first question is that the improvement in the relations between the two countries has come about during your tenure as President, and in this regard he would like to ask the following question.
It is very important to get a handle on the question of arms control and, specifically, the limitation of strategic arms.
Do you think that it will be possible for you and the General Secretary to get a treaty on the limitation of strategic arms during the time that you are still President? President Reagan: Well, the arms treaty that is being negotiated now is the so-called START treaty, and it is based on taking the intercontinental ballistic missiles and reducing them by half, down to parity between our two countries.
Now, this is a much more complicated treaty than the INF treaty, the intermediate-range treaty, which we have signed and which our two governments have ratified and is now in effect.
So, there are many things still to be settled.
You and we have had negotiators in Geneva for months working on various points of this treaty.
Once we had hoped that maybe, like the INF treaty, we would have been able to sign it here at this summit meeting.
It is not completed; there are still some points that are being debated.
We are both hopeful that it can be finished before I leave office, which is in the coming January, but I assure you that if it is not  I assure you that I will have impressed on my successor that we must carry on until it is signed.
My dream has always been that once we have started down this road, we can look forward to a day  you can look forward to a day  when there will be no more nuclear weapons in the world at all.
Young People Q: The question is: The universities influence public opinion, and the student wonders how the youths have changed since the days when you were a student up until now? President Reagan: Well, wait a minute.
How you have changed since the era of my own youth? Q: How just students have changed, the youth have changed.
You were a student.
At your time there were one type.
How they have changed? President Reagan: Well, I know there was a period in our country when there was a very great change for the worse.
When I was Governor of California, I could start a riot just by going to a campus.
But that has all changed, and I could be looking out at an American student body as well as I am looking out here and would not be able to tell the difference between you.
I think that back in our day  I did happen to go to school, get my college education in a unique time; it was the time of the Great Depression, when, in a country like our own, there was 25-percent unemployment and the bottom seemed to have fallen out of everything.
But we had  I think what maybe I should be telling you from my point here, because I graduated in 1932, that I should tell you that when you get to be my age, you are going to be surprised how much you recall the feelings you had in these days here and that  how easy it is to understand the young people because of your own having been young once.
You know an awful lot more about being young than you do about being old.
And I think there is a seriousness, I think there is a sense of responsibility that young people have, and I think that there is an awareness on the part of most of you about what you want your adulthood to be and what the country you live in  you want it to be.
And I have a great deal of faith.
I said the other day to 76 students  they were half American and half Russian.
They had held a conference here and in Finland and then in the United States, and I faced them just the other day, and I had to say  I could not tell the difference looking at them, which were which, but I said one line to them.
I said I believe that if all the young people of the world today could get to know each other, there would never be another war.
And I think that of you.
I think that of the other students that I have addressed in other places.
And of course, I know also that you are young and, therefore, there are certain things that at times take precedence.
I will illustrate one myself.
Twenty-five years after I graduated, my alma mater brought me back to the school and gave me an honorary degree.
And I had to tell them they compounded a sense of guilt I had nursed for 25 years because I always felt the first degree they gave me was honorary.
You're great! Carry on.
Regional Conflicts Q:  President, you have just mentioned that you welcome the efforts  settlement of the Afghanistan question and the difference of other regional conflicts.
What conflicts do you mean? Central America conflicts, Southeast Asian, or South African? President Reagan: Well, for example, in South Africa, where Namibia has been promised its independence as a nation  another new African nation.
But it is impossible because of a civil war going on in another country there, and that civil war is being fought on one side by some 30,000 to 40,000 Cuban troops who have gone from the Americas over there and are fighting on one side with one kind of authoritative government.
When that country was freed from being a colony and given its independence, one faction seized power and made itself the government of that nation.
And leaders of another  seeming the majority of the people had wanted, simply, the people to have the right to choose the government that they wanted, and that is the civil war that is going on.
But what we believe is that those foreign soldiers should get out and let them settle it, let the citizens of that nation settle their problems.
And the same is true in Nicaragua.
Nicaragua has been  Nicaragua made a promise.
They had a dictator.
There was a revolution, there was an organization that  and was aided by others in the revolution, and they appealed to the Organization of American States for help in getting the dictator to step down and stop the killing.
And he did.
But the Organization of American States had asked, what are the goals of the revolution? And they were given in writing, and they were the goals of pluralistic society, of the right of unions and freedom of speech and press and so forth and free elections  a pluralistic society.
And then the one group that was the best organized among the revolutionaries seized power, exiled many of the other leaders, and has its own government, which violated every one of the promises that had been made.
And here again, we want  we are trying to encourage the getting back those  or making those promises come true and letting the people of that particular country decide their fate.
Soviet MIAs in Afghanistan Q: Esteemed  President, I am very much anxious and concerned about the destiny of 310 Soviet soldiers being missing in Afghanistan.
Are you willing to help in their search and their return to the motherland? President Reagan: Very much so.
We would like nothing better than that.
U.
S.
Constitution Q: The reservation of the inalienable rights of citizens guaranteed by the Constitution faces certain problems; for example, the right of people to have arms, or for example, the problem appears, an evil appears whether spread of pornography or narcotics is compatible with these rights.
Do you believe that these problems are just unavoidable problems connected with democracy, or they could be avoided? President Reagan: Well, if I understand you correctly, this is a question about the inalienable rights of the people  does that include the right to do criminal acts  for example, in the use of drugs and so forth? No.
No, we have a set of laws.
I think what is significant and different about our system is that every country has a constitution, and most constitutions or practically all of the constitutions in the world are documents in which the government tells the people what the people can do.
Our Constitution is different, and the difference is in three words; it almost escapes everyone.
The three words are, We the people.
Our Constitution is a document in which we the people tell the government what its powers are.
And it can have no powers other than those listed in that document.
But very carefully, at the same time, the people give the government the power with regard to those things which they think would be destructive to society, to the family, to the individual and so forth  infringements on their rights.
And thus, the government can enforce the laws.
But that has all been dictated by the people.
President's Retirement Plans Q:  President, from history I know that people who have been connected with great power, with big posts, say goodbye, leave these posts with great difficulty.
Since your term of office is coming to an end, what sentiments do you experience and whether you feel like, if, hypothetically, you can just stay for another term?  President Reagan: Well, I will tell you something.
I think it was a kind of revenge against Franklin Delano Roosevelt, who was elected four times  the only President.
There had kind of grown a tradition in our country about two terms.
That tradition was started by Washington, our first President, only because there was great talk at the formation of our country that we might become a monarchy, and we had just freed ourselves from a monarchy.
So, when the second term was over, George Washington stepped down and said he would do it  stepping down  so that there would not get to be the kind of idea of an inherited aristocracy.
Well, succeeding Presidents  many of them did not get a chance at a second term; they did one term and were gone.
But that tradition kind of remained, but it was just a tradition.
And then Roosevelt ran the four times  died very early in his fourth term.
And suddenly, in the atmosphere at that time, they added an amendment to the Constitution that Presidents could only serve two terms.
When I get out of office  I cannot do this while I am in office, because it will look as I am selfishly doing it for myself  when I get out of office, I am going to travel around what I call the mashed-potato circuit  that is the after-dinner speaking and the speaking to luncheon groups and so forth  I am going to travel around and try to convince the people of our country that they should wipe out that amendment to the Constitution because it was an interference with the democratic rights of the people.
The people should be allowed to vote for who they wanted to vote for, for as many times as they want to vote for him; and that it is they who are being denied a right.
But you see, I will no longer be President then, so I can do that and talk for that.
There are a few other things I am going to try to convince the people to impress upon our Congress, the things that should be done.
I have always described it that if  in Hollywood, when I was there, if you did not sing or dance, you wound up as an afterdinner speaker.
And I did not sing or dance.
So, I have a hunch that I will be out on the speaking circuit, telling about a few things that I did not get done in government, but urging the people to tell the Congress they wanted them done.
American Indians Q:  President, I have heard that a group of American Indians have come here because they could not meet you in the United States of America.
If you fail to meet them here, will you be able to correct it and to meet them back in the United States? President Reagan: I did not know that they had asked to see me.
If they have come here or whether to see them there?  I had be very happy to see them.
Let me tell you just a little something about the American Indian in our land.
We have provided millions of acres of land for what are called preservations  or reservations, I should say.
They, from the beginning, announced that they wanted to maintain their way of life, as they had always lived there in the desert and the plains and so forth.
And we set up these reservations so they could, and have a Bureau of Indian Affairs to help take care of them.
At the same time, we provide education for them  schools on the reservations.
And they are free also to leave the reservations and be American citizens among the rest of us, and many do.
Some still prefer, however, that way  that early way of life.
And we have done everything we can to meet their demands as to how they want to live.
Maybe we made a mistake.
Maybe we should not have humored them in that wanting to stay in that kind of primitive lifestyle.
Maybe we should have said, no, come join us; be citizens along with the rest of us.
As I say, many have; many have been very successful.
And I am very pleased to meet with them, talk with them at any time and see what their grievances are or what they feel they might be.
And you had be surprised: Some of them became very wealthy because some of those reservations were overlaying great pools of oil, and you can get very rich pumping oil.
And so, I do not know what their complaint might be.
Soviet Dissidents  Well, that is one I do not know about, or maybe the information has not been all given out on that.
But you have to understand that Americans come from every corner of the world.
I received a letter from a man that called something to my attention recently.
He said, you can go to live in France, but you cannot become a Frenchman; you can go to live in Germany, you cannot become a German  or a Turk, or a Greek, or whatever.
But he said anyone, from any corner of the world, can come to live in America and become an American.
You have to realize that we are a people that are made up of every strain, nationality, and race of the world.
And the result is that when people in our country think someone is being mistreated or treated unjustly in another country, these are people who still feel that kinship to that country because that is their heritage.
In America, whenever you meet someone new and become friends, one of the first things you tell each other is what your bloodline is.
For example, when I am asked, I have to say Irish, English, and Scotch  English and Scotch on my mother's side, Irish on my father's side.
But all of them have that.
Well, when you take on to yourself a wife, you do not stop loving your mother.
So, Americans all feel a kind of a kinship to that country that their parents or their grandparents or even some great-grandparents came from; you do not lose that contact.
So, what I have come and what I have brought to the General Secretary  and I must say he has been very cooperative about it  I have brought lists of names that have been brought to me from people that are relatives or friends that know that  or that believe that this individual is being mistreated here in this country, and they want him to be allowed to emigrate to our country  some are separated families.
One that I met in this, the other day, was born the same time I was.
He was born of Russian parents who had moved to America, oh, way back in the early 1900s, and he was born in 1911.
And then sometime later, the family moved back to Russia.
Now he is grown, has a son.
He's an American citizen.
But they wanted to go back to America and being denied on the grounds that, well, they can go back to America, but his son married a Russian young lady, and they want to keep her from going back.
Well, the whole family said, no, we are not going to leave her alone here.
She is a member of the family now.
Well, that kind of a case is brought to me personally, so I bring it to the General Secretary.
And as I say, I must say, he has been most helpful and most agreeable about correcting these things.
Now, I am not blaming you; I am blaming bureaucracy.
We have the same type of thing happen in our own country.
And every once in a while, somebody has to get the bureaucracy by the neck and shake it loose and say, Stop doing what you are doing! And this is the type of thing and the names that we have brought.
And it is a list of names, all of which have been brought to me personally by either relatives or close friends and associates.
Thank you very much.
You're all very kind.
I thank you very much.
And I hope I answered the questions correctly.
Nobody asked me what it was going to feel like to not be President anymore.
I have some understanding, because after I had been Governor for eight years and then stepped down, I want to tell you what it is like.
We'd only been home a few days, and someone invited us out to dinner.
Nancy and I both went out, got in the back seat of the car, and waited for somebody to get in front and drive us.
That is beautiful.
Thank you very much.
Madam Chairman, delegates to the convention, and fellow citizens:Thank you for that warm and generous welcome.
Nancy and I have been enjoying the finest of Southern hospitality since we arrived here yesterday.
And believe me, after that reception I do not think the Big Easy has ever been bigger than it has tonight.
And with all due respect to Cajun cuisine cooking and New Orleans jazz, nothing could be hotter than the spirit of the delegates in this hall, except maybe a victory celebration on November 8th.
In that spirit, I think we can be forgiven if we give ourselves a little pat on the back for having made Republican a proud word once again and America a proud nation again.
Nancy and I are so honored to be your guests tonight, to share a little of your special time, and we thank you.
Now I want to invoke executive privilege to talk for a moment about a very special lady who has been selfless not just for our party but for the entire Nation.
She is a strong, courageous, compassionate woman; and wherever she is gone, here in the United States as well as abroad, whether with young or old, whether comforting the grieving or supporting the youngsters who are fighting the scourge of drugs, she makes us proud.
I have been proud of her for a long time, but never more so than in these last 8 years.
With your tribute to Nancy today, you warmed my heart as well as hers, and believe me, she deserves your tribute.
And I am deeply grateful to you for what you have done.
When people tell me that I became President on January 20th, 1981, I feel I have to correct them.
You do not become President of the United States.
You are given temporary custody of an institution called the Presidency, which belongs to our people.
Having temporary custody of this office has been for me a sacred trust and an honor beyond words or measure.
That trust began with many of you in this room many conventions ago.
Many's the time that I have said a prayer of thanks to all Americans who placed this trust in my hands.
And tonight, please accept again our heartfelt gratitude, Nancy's and mine, for this special time that you have given in our lives.
Just a moment ago, you multiplied the honor with a moving tribute, and being only human, there is a part of me that would like to take credit for what we have achieved.
But tonight, before we do anything else, let us remember that tribute really belongs to the 245 million citizens who make up the greatest  and the first  three words in our Constitution: We the People.
It is the American people who endured the great challenge of lifting us from the depths of national calamity, renewing our mighty economic strength, and leading the way to restoring our respect in the world.
They are an extraordinary breed we call Americans.
So, if there is any salute deserved tonight, it is to the heroes everywhere in this land who make up the doers, the dreamers, and the lifebuilders without which our glorious experiment in democracy would have failed.
This convention brings back so many memories to a fellow like me.
I can still remember my first Republican convention: Abraham Lincoln giving a speech that-   sent tingles down my spine.
No, I have to confess, I was not actually there.
The truth is, way back then, I belonged to the other party.
But surely we can remember another convention.
Eight years ago, we gathered in Detroit in a troubled time for our beloved country.
And we gathered solemnly to share our dreams.
When I look back, I wonder if we dared be ' so bold to take on those burdens.
But in that same city of Detroit, when the 20th century was only in its second year, another great Republican, Teddy Roosevelt, told Americans not to hold back from dangers ahead but to rejoice: Our hearts lifted with the faith that to us and to our children it shall be given to make this Republic the mightiest among the peoples of mankind.
Teddy said those, years ago.
In 1980 we needed every bit of that kind of faith.
That year, it was our dream that together we could rescue America and make a new beginning, to create anew that shining city on a hill.
The dream we shared was to reclaim our government, to transform it from one that was consuming our prosperity into one that would get out of the way of those who created prosperity.
It was a dream of again making our nation strong enough to preserve world peace and freedom and to recapture our national destiny.
We made a determination that our dream would not be built on a foundation of sand  something called Trust Me Government  but we would trust, instead, the American spirit.
And, yes, we were unashamed in believing that this dream was driven by a community of shared values of family, work, neighborhood, peace, and freedom.
And on the night of July 17th, 1980, we left with a mutual pledge to conduct a national crusade to make America great again.
We had faith because the heroes in our midst had never failed us before.
Tom Paine knew what these Americans with character of steel could do when he wrote: The harder the conflict, the more glorious the triumph.
And my fellow citizens, while our triumph is not yet complete, the road has been glorious indeed.
Eight years ago, we met at a time when America was in economic chaos, and today we meet in a time of economic promise.
We met then in international distress and today with global hope.
Now, I think we can be forgiven if we engage in a little review of that history tonight  as the saying goes, just a friendly reminder.
I have been doing a little remembering of my own because of all that inflated rhetoric by our friends in Atlanta last month.
But then, inflation is their specialty.
Before we came to Washington, Americans had just suffered the two worst back-to-back years of inflation in 60 years.
Those are the facts, and as John Adams said, Facts are stubborn things.
Interest rates had jumped to over 21 percent, the highest in 120 years, more than doubling the average monthly mortgage payments for working families  our families.
When they sat around the kitchen table, it was not to plan summer vacations, it was to plan economic survival.
Facts are stubborn things.
Industrial production was down, and productivity was down for 2 consecutive years.
The average weekly  you missed me.
The average weekly wage plunged 9 percent.
The median family income fell 51/2 percent.
Facts are stubborn things.
Our friends on the other side had actually passed the single highest tax bill in the 200-year history of the United States.
Auto loans, because of their policies, went up to 17 percent, so our great factories began shutting down.
Fuel costs jumped through the atmosphere, more than doubling.
Then people waited in gas lines as well as unemployment lines.
Facts are stupid things-stubborn things, I should say.
And then there was the misery index.
That was an election year gimmick they designed for the 1976 campaign.
They added the unemployment and inflation rates.
And it came to 13.
4 percent in 1976, and they declared that our candidate, Jerry Ford, had no right to seek re-election with that kind of misery index.
But 4 years later, in the 1980 campaign, they did not mention the misery index.
Do you suppose it was because it was no longer 13.
4 percent? In those 4 years it had become almost 21 percent.
And last month, in Atlanta at their convention, there was again no mention of the misery index.
Why? Because right now it is less than 9.
2 percent.
Facts are stubborn things.
When we met in Detroit in that summer of 1980, it was a summer of discontent for America around the world.
Our national defense had been so weakened, the Soviet Union had begun to engage in reckless aggression, including the invasion and occupation of Afghanistan.
The U.
S.
response to that was to forbid our athletes to participate in the 1980 Olympics and to try to pull the rug out from under our farmers with a grain and soybean embargo.
And in those years, on any given day, we had military aircraft that could not fly for lack of spare parts and ships that could not leave port for the same reason or for lack of a crew.
Our Embassy in Pakistan was burned to the ground, and the one in Iran was stormed and occupied with all Americans taken as hostages.
The world began to question the constancy and resolve of the United States.
Our leaders answered not that there was something wrong with our government but that our people were at fault because of some malaise.
Well, facts are stubborn things.
When our friends last month talked of unemployment, despair, hopelessness, economic weakness, I wondered why on Earth they were talking about 1978 instead of 1988.
And now we hear talk that it is time for a change.
Well, ladies and gentlemen, another friendly reminder: We are the change.
We rolled up our sleeves and went to work in January of 1981.
We focused on hope, not despair.
We challenged the failed policies of the past because we believed that a society is great not because of promises made by its government but only because of progress made by its people.
And that was our change.
We said something shocking: Taxes ought to be reduced, not raised.
We cut the tax rates for the working folks of America.
We indexed taxes, and that stopped a bracket creep which kicked average wage earners into higher tax brackets when they had only received a cost-of-living pay raise.
And we initiated reform of the unfairness in our tax system.
And what do you know, the top 5 percent of earners are paying a higher percentage of the total tax revenue at the lower rates than they ever had before, and millions of earners at the bottom of the scale have been freed from paying any income tax at all.
That was our change.
So, together we pulled out of a tailspin and created 171/2 million good jobs.
That's more than a quarter of a million new jobs a month  every month  for 68 consecutive months.
America is working again.
And just since our 1984 convention, we have created over 11 million of those new jobs.
Now, just why would our friends on the other side want to change that? Why do they think putting you out of work is better than putting you to work?New homes are being built.
New car sales reached record levels.
Exports are starting to climb again.
Factory capacity is approaching maximum use.
You know, I have noticed they do not call it Reaganomics anymore.
As for inflation, well, that too has changed.
We changed it from the time it hit 18 percent in 1980 down to between 3.
5 and 4 percent.
Interest rates are less than half of what they were.
In fact, nearly half of all mortgages taken out on family homes in 1986 and more than a third of those in 1987 were actually old loans being refinanced at the new lower rates.
Young families have finally been able to get some relief.
These, too, were our changes.
We rebuilt our Armed Forces.
We liberated Grenada from the Communists and helped return that island to democracy.
We struck a firm blow against Libyan terrorism.
We've seen the growth of democracy in 90 percent of Latin America.
The Soviets have begun to pull out of Afghanistan.
The bloody Iran-Iraq war is coming to an end.
And for the first time in 8 years we have the prospects of peace in Southwest Africa and the removal of Cuban and other foreign forces from the region.
And in the 2,765 days of our administration, not i inch of ground has fallen to the Communists.
The President.
Today we have the first treaty in world history to eliminate an entire class of U.
S.
and Soviet nuclear missiles.
We're working on the Strategic Defense Initiative to defend ourselves and our allies against nuclear terror.
And American and Soviet relations are the best they have ever been since World War IIAnd virtually all this change occurred-and continues to occur  in spite of the resistance of those liberal elites who loudly proclaim that it is time for a change.
They resisted our defense buildup.
They resisted our tax cuts.
They resisted cutting the fat out of government.
And they resisted our appointments of judges committed to the law and the Constitution.
And it is time for some more straight talk.
This time it is about the budget deficit.
Yes, it is much too high.
But the President does not vote for a budget, and the President cannot spend a dime.
Only the Congress can do that.
They blame the defense increases for the deficit, yet defense spending today, in real dollars, is almost exactly what it was 6 years ago.
In a 6-year period, Congress cut defense spending authority by over $125 billion.
And for every $1 reduction in defense outlays, they added $2 to domestic spending.
Now, if they had passed my first budget, my first spending plan in 1982, the cumulative outlays and deficits would have been $207 billion lower by 1986.
Every single year I have been in office, I have supported and called for a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution, and the liberals have said no every year.
I called for the line-item veto, which 43 Governors have, to cut fat in the budget, and the liberals have said no.
Every year I have attempted to limit their wild spending sprees, and they have said no.
They would have us believe that runaway budget deficits began in 1981 when we took office.
Well, let me tell you something: The fact is, when they began their war on poverty in the middle sixties, from 1965 through 1980  'm just those 15 years, the budgets increased to five times what they had been, and the deficits went up to 52 times what they had been before their war on poverty.
Now, do not we know that if they are elected their answer will be the one they have relied on in the past, and that is higher taxes.
The other party has controlled the House of Representatives for 52 out of the last 56 years.
They've controlled the Senate also for 46 of those years.
Where we really need a change is to elect Republican majorities in both Houses.
And then George Bush can have a team that will protect your tax cuts; keep America strong; hold down inflation and interest rates; appoint judges to preserve your rights; and, yes, reduce the budget deficit.
Early in the first term, we set out to reduce Federal regulations that had been imposed on the people, on businesses, and on local and State governments.
Today I am proud to say that we have eliminated so many unnecessary regulations that government-required paperwork imposed on citizens, businesses, and other levels of government has been reduced by an estimated 600 million man-hours of paperwork a year.
And George was there.
No, you have not heard it all yet.
George Bush headed up that task force that eliminated those regulations.
In 1980 and before, it took 7 weeks to get a Social Security card.
Now it takes 10 days.
It only takes 10 days to get a passport.
It used to take 43 days.
It took 75 days to get an export license.
Now it is only 17 days, and for some countries, only 5.
It took over 100 days to process a claim for a Department of Housing and Urban Development Title I loan  100 days.
It now takes less than one-fourth of that  22 days.
I think these specifics suggest there is a new level of competent management in the Departments of our government.
George played a major role in everything that we have accomplished in these 8 years.
Now early on, we had a foreign policy problem.
Our NATO allies were under the threat of Soviet intermediate-range missiles, and NATO had no equivalent deterrent.
Our effort to provide a deterrent  Pershing and ground-launched cruise missiles on the NATO line  resulted in political problems for our NATO allies.
There was objection on the part of many other people to deployment of our missiles.
George represented us in Brussels with the heads of the NATO countries; and they agreed, when he finished, to take the missiles.
This subsequently persuaded the Soviets to sign the INF treaty and begin removing their SS-20's.
None of our achievements happened by accident, but only because we overcame liberal opposition to put our programs in place.
And without George Bush to build on those policies, everything we have achieved will be at risk.
All the work, sacrifice, and effort of the American people could end in the very same disaster that we inherited in 1981.
Because I feel so strongly about the work that must continue and the need to protect our gains for the American family and for national security, I want to share with you the qualities we should seek in the next President.
We need someone who is big enough and experienced enough to handle tough and demanding negotiations with  Gorbachev because this is no time to gamble with on-the-job training.
We need someone who is prepared to be President and who has the commitment to stand up for you against massive new taxes and who will keep alive the hope and promise that keeps our economy strong.
It'll take somebody who has seen this office from the inside, who senses the danger points, will be cool under fire, and knows the range of answers when the tough questions come.
Well, that is the George Bush that I have seen up close, when the staff and Cabinet members have closed the door and when the two of us are alone  someone who is not afraid to speak his mind and who can cut to the core of an issue, someone who never runs away from a fight, never backs away from his beliefs, and never makes excuses.
This office is not mine to give; only you, the people, can do that.
But I love America too much and care too much about where we will be in the next few years.
I care that we give custody of this office to someone who will build on our changes, not retreat to the past, someone who will continue the change all of us fought for.
To preserve what we have and not risk losing it all, America needs George Bush  and Barbara Bush as First Lady.
Okay.
All right.
With George Bush, I will know as we approach the new millennium our children will have a future secure with a nation at peace and protected against aggression.
We'll have a prosperity that spreads the blessings of our abundance and opportunity across all America.
We'll have safe and active neighborhoods, drug-free schools that send our children soaring in the atmosphere of great ideas and deep values, and a nation confidently willing to take its leadership into the uncharted reaches of a new age.
So, George, I am in your corner.
I am ready to volunteer a little advice now and then and offer a pointer or two on strategy, if asked.
I will help keep the facts straight or just stand back and cheer.
But, George, just one personal request: Go out there and win one for the Gipper.
As you can imagine, I am sorely tempted to spend the rest of this evening telling the truth about our friends who met in Atlanta, but, then, why should I have all the fun?  So, for the next few moments, let us talk about the future.
This is the last Republican convention I will address as President.
Maybe you will see your way to inviting me back sometime.
But like so many of us, as I said earlier, I started out in the other party.
But 40 years ago, I cast my last vote as a Democrat.
It was a party in which Franklin Delano Roosevelt promised the return of power to the States.
It was a party where Harry Truman committed a strong and resolute America to preserving freedom.
F.
DR had run on a platform of eliminating useless boards and commissions and returning autonomy and authority to local governments and to the States.
That party changed, and it will never be the same.
They left me; I did not leave them.
So, it was our Republican Party that gave me a political home.
When I signed up for duty, I did not have to check my principles at the door.
And I soon found out that the desire for victory did not overcome our devotion to ideals.
And what ideals those have been.
Our party speaks for human freedom, for the sweep of liberties that are at the core of our existence.
We do not shirk from our duties to preserve freedom so it can unfold across the world for yearning millions.
We believe that lasting peace comes only through strength and not through the good will of our adversaries.
We have a healthy skepticism of government, checking its excesses at the same time we are willing to harness its energy when it helps improve the lives of our citizens.
We have pretty strong notions that higher tax receipts are no inherent right of the Federal Government.
We do not think that inflation and high interest rates show compassion for the poor, the young, and the elderly.
We respect the values that bind us together as families and as a nation.
For our children, we do not think it is wrong to have them committed to pledging each day to the one nation, under God, indivisible , with liberty and justice for all.
And we have so many requirements in their classrooms; why cannot we at least have one thing that is, voluntary, and that is allow our kids to repair quietly to their faith to say a prayer to start the day, as Congress does.
For the unborn, quite simply, should not they be able to live to become children in those classrooms?Those are some of our principles.
You in this room, and millions like you watching and listening tonight, are selfless and dedicated to a better world based on these principles.
You are not quitters.
You walk not just precincts but for a cause.
You stand for something  the finest warriors for free government that I have known.
Nancy and I thank you for letting us be a part of your tireless determination to leave a better world for our children.
And that is why we are here, is not it? A better world?I know I have said this before, but I believe that God put this land between the two great oceans to be found by special people from every corner of the world who had that extra love for freedom that prompted them to leave their homeland and come to this land to make it a brilliant light beam of freedom to the world.
It's our gift to have visions, and I want to share that of a young boy who wrote to me shortly after I took office.
In his letter he said, I love America because you can join Cub Scouts if you want to.
You have a right to worship as you please.
If you have the ability, you can try to be anything you want to be.
And I also like America because we have about 200 flavors of ice cream.
Well, truth through the eyes of a child: freedom of association, freedom of worship, freedom of hope and opportunity, and the pursuit of happiness-in this case, choosing among 200 flavors of ice cream  that is America, everyone with his or her vision of the American promise.
That's why we are a magnet for the world: for those who dodged bullets and gave their lives coming over the Berlin Wall and others, only a few of whom avoided death, coming in tiny boats on turbulent oceans.
This land, its people, the dreams that unfold here and the freedom to bring it all together-well, those are what make America soar, up where you can see hope billowing in those freedom winds.
When our children turn the pages of our lives, I hope they will see that we had a vision to pass forward a nation as nearly perfect as we could, where there is decency, tolerance, generosity, honesty, courage, common sense, fairness, and piety.
This is my vision, and I am grateful to God for blessing me with a good life and a long one.
But when I pack up my bags in Washington, do not expect me to be happy to hear all this talk about the twilight of my life.
Twilight? Twilight? Not in America.
Here, it is a sunrise every day fresh new opportunities, dreams to build.
Twilight? That's not possible, because I confess there are times when I feel like I am still little Dutch Reagan racing my brother down the hill to the swimming hole under the railroad bridge over the Rock River.
You see, there is no sweeter day than each new one, because here in our country it means something wonderful can happen to you.
And something wonderful happened to me.
We lit a prairie fire a few years back.
Those flames were fed by passionate ideas and convictions, and we were determined to make them run all  burn, I should say, all across America.
And what times we have had! Together we have fought for causes we love.
But we can never let the fire go out or quit the fight, because the battle is never over.
Our freedom must be defended over and over again  and then again.
There's still a lot of brush to clear out at the ranch, fences that need repair, and horses to ride.
But I want you to know that if the fires ever dim, I will leave my phone number and address behind just in case you need a foot soldier.
Just let me know, and I will be there, as long as words do not leave me and as long as this sweet country strives to be special during its shining moment on Earth.
Twilight, you say? Listen to H.
G.
Wells.
H.
G.
Wells says: The past is but the beginning of a beginning, and all that is and has been is but the twilight of the dawn.
Well, that is a new day  our sunlit new day  to keep alive the fire so that when we look back at the time of choosing, we can say that we did all that could be done  never less.
Thank you.
Good night.
God bless you, and God bless America.
President,  General Secretary, distinguished delegates: Half a world away from this place of peace, the firing, the killing, the bloodshed in two merciless conflicts have, for the first time in recent memory, diminished.
After adding terrible new names to the roll call of human horror  names such as Halabja, Maidan Shahr, and Spin Buldak  there is today hope of peace in the Persian Gulf and Afghanistan.
So, too, in the highlands and coastal cities of southern Africa  places of civil war, places of occupation by foreign troops  talk of peace is heard, peace for the tortured nation of Angola.
Sixty-five hundred miles east, in the Southeast Asian country of Cambodia, there is hope now of a settlement  the removal of Vietnam's occupying forces.
And finally, in this hemisphere, where only 12 years ago one-third of the people of Latin America lived under democratic rule, some 90 percent do so today; and especially in Central America, nations such as El Salvador, once threatened by the anarchy of the death squad and the specter of totalitarian rule, now know the hope of self-government and the prospect of economic growth.
And another change,  Secretary-General, a change that, if it endures, may go down as one of the signal accomplishments of our history, a change that is a cause for shaking of the head in wonder, is also upon us  a change going to the source of postwar tensions and to the once seemingly impossible dream of ending the twin threats of our time: totalitarianism and thermonuclear world war.
For the first time, the differences between East and West  fundamental differences over important moral questions dealing with the worth of the individual and whether governments shall control people or people control governments for the first time, these differences have shown signs of easing, easing to the point where there are not just troop withdrawals from places like Afghanistan but also talk in the East of reform and greater freedom of press, of assembly, and of religion.
Yes, fundamental differences remain.
But should talk of reform become more than that, should it become reality, there is the prospect of not only a new era in Soviet-American relations but a new age of world peace.
For such reform can bring peace, history teaches.
And my country has always believed that where the rights of the individual and the people are enshrined, war is a distant prospect.
For it is not people who make war; only governments do that.
I stand at this podium, then, in a moment of hope  hope not just for the peoples of the United States or the Soviet Union but for all the peoples of the world  and hope, too, for the dream of peace among nations, the dream that began the United Nations.
Precisely because of these changes, today the United Nations has the opportunity to live and breathe and work as never before.
Already, you,  Secretary-General, through your persistence, patience, and unyielding will, have shown, in working toward peace in Afghanistan and the Persian Gulf, how valuable the United Nations can be.
And we salute you for these accomplishments.
In Geneva at this very hour, there are numerous negotiations underway  multilateral negotiations at the Conference on Disarmament as well as bilateral negotiations on a range of issues between the Soviets and ourselves.
And these negotiations, some of them under U.
N.
auspices, involve a broad arms control agenda  strategic offensive weapons and space, nuclear testing and chemical warfare  whose urgency we have witnessed anew in recent days.
And,  Secretary-General, the negotiators are busy.
And over the last few years, they have been engaged in more than an academic exercise.
There is movement.
The logjam is broken.
Only recently, when the United States and the Soviet Union signed the INF agreement, an entire class of U.
S.
and Soviet nuclear missiles was eliminated for the first time in history.
Progress continues on negotiations to reduce, in massive number, strategic weapons with effective verification.
And talks will begin soon on conventional reductions in Europe.
Much of the reason for all of this goes back, I believe, to Geneva itself, to the small chateau along the lake where I and the General Secretary of the Soviet Union had the first of several fireside chats, exchanges characterized by frankness, but friendliness, too.
I said at the first meeting in Geneva that this was a unique encounter between two people who had the power to start world war III or to begin a new age of peace among nations.
And I also said peace conferences, arms negotiations, proposals for treaties could make sense only if they were part of a wider context, a context that sought to explore and resolve the deeper, underlying differences between us.
I said to  Gorbachev then, as I have said to you before: Nations do not mistrust each other because they are armed; they are armed because they mistrust each other.
And in that place, by that peaceful lake in neutral Switzerland,  Gorbachev and I did begin a new relationship based not just on engagement over the single issue of arms control but on a broader agenda about our deeper differences  an agenda of human rights, regional conflicts, and bilateral exchanges between our peoples.
Even on the arms control issue itself, we agreed to go beyond the past, to seek not just treaties that permit building weapons to higher levels but revolutionary agreements that actually reduced and even eliminated a whole class of nuclear weapons.
What was begun that morning in Geneva has shown results  in the INF treaty; in my recent visit to Moscow; in my opportunity to meet there with Soviet citizens and dissidents and speak of human rights, and to speak, too, in the Lenin Hills of Moscow to the young people of the Soviet Union about the wonder and splendor of human freedom.
The results of that morning in Geneva are seen in peace conferences now underway around the world on regional conflicts and in the work of the U.
N.
here in New York as well as in Geneva.
But,  Secretary-General, history teaches caution.
Indeed, that very building in Geneva where important negotiations have taken place  the Geneva accords on Afghanistan, the Iran-Iraq negotiations, for example  we see it today as stonelike testimony to a failed dream of peace in another time.
The Palais des Nations was the headquarters of the League of Nations, an institution that was to symbolize an end to all war.
And yet today  that institution and its noble purpose ended with the Second World War; ended because the chance for peace was not seized in the 1930's by the nations of the world; ended because humanity did not find the courage to isolate the aggressors, to reject schemes of government that serve the state, not the people.
We are here today,  Secretary-General, determined that no such fate shall befall the United Nations.
We are determined that the U.
N.
should succeed and serve the cause of peace for humankind.
So,  Secretary-General, we realize that, even in this time of hope, the chance of failure is real.
But this knowledge does not discourage us; it spurs us on.
For the stakes are high.
Do we falter and fail now and bring down upon ourselves the just anger of future generations? Or do we continue the work of the founders of this institution and see to it that, at last, freedom is enshrined and humanity knows war no longer and that this place, this floor, shall be truly the world's last battlefield? We are determined it shall be so.
So, we turn now to the agenda of peace.
Let us begin by addressing a concern that was much on my mind when I met with  Gorbachev in the Kremlin, as well as on the minds of Soviet citizens that I met in Moscow.
It is also an issue that I know is of immediate importance to the delegates of this Assembly, who this fall commemorate the 40th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
That declaration says plainly what those who seek peace can forget only at the greatest peril: that peace rests on one foundation  observing the inalienable rights of all members of the human family.
In a century where human rights have been denied by totalitarian governments on a scale never before seen in history, with so many millions deliberately starved or eliminated as a matter of state policy  a history, it has been said, of blood, stupidity, and barbed wire few can wonder why peace has proved so elusive.
Now, let us understand: If we would have peace, we must acknowledge the elementary rights of our fellow human beings.
In our own land and in other lands, if we would have peace, the trampling of the human spirit must cease.
Human rights is not for some, some of the time.
Human rights, as the universal declaration of this Assembly adopted in 1948 proclaims, is for all people and all nations, and for all time.
This regard for human rights as the foundation of peace is at the heart of the U.
N.
Those who starve in Ethiopia, those who die among the Kurds, those who face racial injustice in South Africa, those who still cannot write or speak freely in the Soviet Union, those who cannot worship in the Ukraine, those who struggle for life and freedom on boats in the South China Sea, those who cannot publish or assemble in Managua  all of this is more than just an agenda item on your calendar.
It must be a first concern, an issue above others.
For when human rights concerns are not paramount at the United Nations, when the Universal Declaration of Human Rights is not honored in these halls and meeting rooms, then the very credibility of this organization is at stake, the very purpose of its existence in question.
That is why when human rights progress is made, the United Nations grows stronger-and the United States is glad of it.
Following a 2-year effort led by the United States, for example, the U.
N.
Human Rights Commission took a major step toward ending the double standards and cynicism that had characterized too much of its past.
For years, Cuba, a blatant violator of its citizens' human rights, has escaped U.
N.
censure or even scrutiny.
This year, Cuba has responded to pressure generated by the Human Rights Commission by accepting an investigation into its human rights abuses.
Fidel Castro has already begun to free some political prisoners, improve prison conditions, and tolerate the existence of a small, independent national human rights group.
More must be done.
The United Nations must be relentless and unyielding in seeking change in Cuba and elsewhere.
And we must also see to it that the Universal Declaration itself should not be debased with episodes like the zionism is racism resolution.
Respect for human rights is the first and fundamental mission of this body, the most elementary obligation of its members.
Indeed, wherever one turns in the world today, there is new awareness, a growing passion for human rights.
The people of the world grow united; new groups, new coalitions form  coalitions that monitor government, that work against discrimination, that fight religious or political repression, unlawful imprisonment, torture, or execution.
As those I spoke to at Spaso House said to me last June, such movements make a difference.
Turning now to regional conflicts, we feel again the uplift of hope.
In the Gulf war between Iran and Iraq, one of the bloodiest conflicts since World War II, we have a cease-fire.
The resolution and the firmness of the allied nations in keeping the Persian Gulf open to international shipping not only upheld the rule of law, it helped prevent further spread of the conflict and laid the basis for peace.
So, too, the Security Council's decisive resolution in July a year ago has become the blueprint for a peaceful Gulf.
Let this war  a war in which there has been no victor or vanquished, only victims-let this war end now.
Let both Iran and Iraq cooperate with the Secretary-General and the Security Council in implementing Resolution 598.
Let peace come.
Moving on to a second region: When I first addressed the U.
N.
General Assembly in 1983, world attention was focused on the brutal invasion and illegal occupation of Afghanistan.
After nearly 9 long years of war, the courage and determination of the Afghan people and the Afghan freedom fighters have held sway, and today an end to the occupation is in sight.
On April 14, the U.
SS R.
signed the Geneva accords, which were negotiated under U.
N.
auspices by Pakistan and the Kabul regime.
We encourage the Soviet Union to complete its troop withdrawal at the earliest possible date so that the Afghan people can freely determine their future without further outside interference.
In southern Africa, too, years of patient diplomacy and support for those in Angola who seek self-determination are having their effect.
We look forward to an accord between the Governments of Angola, Cuba, and South Africa that will bring about a complete withdrawal of all foreign troops, primarily Cuban, from Angola.
We look forward as well to full implementation of U.
N.
Security Council Resolution 435 and our longstanding goal of independence for Namibia.
We continue to support a growing consensus among African leaders who also believe there can be no end to conflict in the region until there is national reconciliation within Angola.
Secretary-General, there are new hopes for Cambodia, a nation whose freedom and independence we seek just as avidly as we sought the freedom and independence of Afghanistan.
We urge the rapid removal of all Vietnamese troops and a settlement that will prevent the return of the Khmer Rouge to power, permitting instead the establishment of a genuinely representative government  a government that will, at last, respect fully the rights of the people of Cambodia and end the hideous suffering they have so bravely and needlessly borne.
In other critical areas, we applaud the Secretary-General's efforts to structure a referendum on the western Sahara.
And in the Mediterranean, direct talks between Greek and Turkish Cypriot communities hold much promise for accord in that divided island nation.
And finally, we look to a peaceful solution to the Arab-Israeli conflict.
So, too, the unnatural division of Europe remains a critical obstacle to Soviet-American relations.
In most of these areas, then, we see progress, and again, we are glad of it.
Only a few years ago, all of these and other conflicts were burning dangerously out of control.
Indeed, the invasion of Afghanistan and the apparent will among democratic and peace-loving nations to deter such events seemed to cause a climate where aggression by nations large and small was epidemic, a climate the world has not seen since the 1930's.
Only this time, larger war was avoided, avoided because the free and peaceful nations of the world recovered their strength of purpose and will.
And now the United Nations is providing valuable assistance in helping this epidemic to recede.
And because we are resolved to keep it so, I would be remiss in my duty if I did not now take note here of the one exception to progress in regional conflicts.
I refer here to the continuing deterioration of human rights in Nicaragua and the refusal of the tiny elite now ruling that nation to honor promises of democracy made to their own people and to the international community.
This elite, in calling itself revolutionary, seeks no real revolution; the use of the term is subterfuge, deception for hiding the oldest, most corrupt vice of all: man's age-old will to power, his lust to control the lives and steal the freedom of others.
And that is why, as President, I will continue to urge the Congress and the American public to stand behind those who resist this attempt to impose a totalitarian regime on the people of Nicaragua, that the United States will continue to stand with those who are threatened by this regime's aggression against its neighbors in Central America.
Today I also call on the Soviet Union to show in Central America the same spirit of constructive realism it has shown in other regional conflicts-to assist in bringing conflict in Central America to a close by halting the flow of billions of dollars worth of arms and ammunition to the Sandinista regime, a regime whose goals of regional domination, while ultimately doomed, can continue to cause great suffering to the people of that area and risk to Soviet-American relations unless action is taken now.
Moving now to the arms reduction agenda, I have mentioned already the importance of the INF treaty and the momentum developed in the START negotiations.
The draft START treaty is a lengthy document, filled with bracketed language designating sections of disagreement between the two sides.
But through this summer in Geneva, those brackets have diminished.
There is every reason to believe this process can continue.
I can tell this Assembly that it is highly doubtful such a treaty can be accomplished in a few months, but I can tell you a year from now is a possibility  more than a possibility.
But we have no deadline.
No agreement is better than a bad agreement.
The United States remains hopeful, and we acknowledge the spirit of cooperation shown by the Soviet Union in these negotiations.
We also look for that spirit to be applied to our concerns about compliance with existing agreements.
So, too, our discussions on nuclear testing and defense and space have been useful.
But let me here stress to this General Assembly that much of the momentum in nuclear arms control negotiations is due to technological progress itself, especially in the potential for space-based defensive systems.
I believe that the United States determination to research and develop and, when ready, deploy such defensive systems  systems targeted to destroy missiles, not people  accounts for a large share of the progress made in recent years in Geneva.
With such systems, for the first time, in case of accidental launch or the act of a madman somewhere, major powers will not be faced with the single option of massive retaliation but will instead have the chance of a saner choice: to shield against an attack instead of avenging it.
So, too, as defensive systems grow in effectiveness, they reduce the threat and the value of greater and greater offensive arsenals.
Only recently, briefings I have received in the Oval Office indicate that progress toward such systems may be even more rapid and less costly than we had at first thought.
Today the United States reaffirms its commitment to its Strategic Defense Initiative and our offer to share the benefits of strategic defenses with others.
And yet, even as diplomatic and technological progress holds out the hope of at last diminishing the awful cloud of nuclear terror we have lived under in the postwar era, even at this moment another ominous terror is loose once again in the world, a terror we thought the world had put behind, a terror that looms at us now from the long-buried past, from ghostly, scarring trenches and the haunting, wan faces of millions dead in one of the most inhumane conflicts of all time: poison gas, chemical warfare.
Secretary-General, distinguished delegates, the terror of it! The horror of it! We condemn it.
The use of chemical weapons in the Iran-Iraq war, beyond its tragic human toll, jeopardizes the moral and legal strictures that have held those weapons in check since World War I.
Let this tragedy spark reaffirmation of the Geneva protocol outlawing the use of chemical weapons.
I call upon the signatories to that protocol, as well as other concerned states, to convene a conference to consider actions that we can take together to reverse the serious erosion of this treaty.
And we urge all nations to cooperate in negotiating a verifiable, truly global ban on chemical weapons at the Conference on Disarmament in Geneva.
It is incumbent upon all civilized nations to ban, once and for all, and on a verifiable and global basis, the use of chemical and gas warfare.
Finally,  Secretary-General, we must redouble our efforts to stop further proliferation of nuclear weapons in the world.
Likewise, proliferation in other high-technology weapons, such as ballistic missiles, is reaching global proportions, exacerbating regional rivalries in ways that can have global implications.
The number of potential suppliers is growing at an alarming rate, and more must be done to halt the spread of these weapons.
This was a matter of discussion last week between Secretary Shultz and Foreign Minister Shevardnadze.
Talks between American and Soviet experts begin on this today.
And we hope to see a multilateral effort to avoid having areas of tension like the Middle East become even more deadly battlegrounds than they already are.
But in most of these areas, we see not only progress but also the potential for an increasingly vital role for multilateral efforts and institutions like this United Nations.
That is why, now more than ever, the United Nations must continue to increase its effectiveness through budget and program reform.
The U.
N.
already is enacting sweeping measures affecting personnel reductions, budgeting by consensus, and the establishment of program priorities.
These actions are extremely important.
The progress on reforms has allowed me to release funds withheld under congressional restrictions.
I expect the reform program will continue and that further funds will be released in our new fiscal year.
And let me say here, we congratulate the United Nations on the work it has done in three areas of special concern.
First, our struggle against the scourge of terrorism and state-sponsored terrorism must continue.
And we must also end the scourge of hostage taking.
Second, the work of the World Health Organization in coordinating and advancing research on AIDS is vital.
All international efforts in this area must be redoubled.
The AIDS crisis is a grave one.
We must move as one to meet it.
And so, too, is the drug crisis.
We're moving now toward a new anti-drug-trafficking convention.
This important treaty will be completed in December.
I am confident other strong U.
N.
drug control programs will also follow.
The American people are profoundly concerned and deeply angered.
We will not tolerate the drug traffickers.
We mean to make war on them, and we believe this is one war the United Nations can endorse and participate in.
Yes, the United Nations is a better place than it was 8 years ago, and so, too, is the world.
But the real issue of reform in the United Nations is not limited just to fiscal and administrative improvements but also to a higher sort of reform, an intellectual and philosophical reform, a reform of old views about the relationship between the individual and the state.
Few developments, for example, have been more encouraging to the United States than the special session this body held on Africa 2 1/2 years ago, a session in which the United Nations joined as one in a call for free-market incentives and a lessening of state controls to spur economic development.
At one of the first international assemblies of my Presidency, in Cancun, Mexico, I said history demonstrates that, time and again, in place after place, economic growth and human progress make their greatest strides in countries that encourage economic freedom; that individual farmers, laborers, owners, traders, and managers are the heart and soul of development.
Trust them, because where they are allowed to create and build, where they are given a personal stake in deciding economic policies and benefiting from their success, then societies become more dynamic, prosperous, progressive, and free.
We believe in freedom.
We know it works.
And this,  Secretary-General and distinguished delegates, is the immutable lesson of the postwar era: that freedom works  even more, that freedom and peace work together.
Every year that passes, everywhere in the world, this lesson is taking hold, from the People's Republic of China to Cameroon, from Bolivia to Botswana, and, yes, in the citadel of Marxism-Leninism itself.
No, my country did not invent this synergy of peace and freedom, but believe me, we impose no restrictions on the free export of our more than two centuries of experience with it.
Free people blessed by economic opportunity and protected by laws that respect the dignity of the individual are not driven toward war or the domination of others.
Here, then, is the way to world peace.
And yet we Americans champion freedom not only because it is practical and beneficial but because it is also just, morally right.
And here,  Secretary-General, I hope you will permit me to note that I have addressed this assemblage more than any of my predecessors and that this will be the last occasion I do so.
So I hope, too, I may be permitted now some closing reflections.
The world is currently witnessing another celebration of international cooperation.
At the Olympics we see nations joining together in the competition of sports, and we see young people who know precious little of the resentments of their elders coming together as one.
One of our young athletes from a home of modest means said that she drew the strength for her achievement from another source of wealth.
We were rich as a family, she said, about the love she was given and the values she was taught.
Secretary-General, I dare to hope that, in the sentiment of that young athlete, we see a sign of the rediscovery of old and tested values: values such as family, the first and most important unit of society, where all values and learning begin  an institution to be cherished and protected; values, too, such as work, community, freedom, and faith.
For it is here we find the deeper rationale for the cause of human rights and world peace.
And our own experience on this continent-the American experience  though brief, has had one unmistakable encounter, an insistence on the preservation of one sacred truth.
It is a truth that our first President, our Founding Father, passed on in the first farewell address made to the American people.
It is a truth that I hope now you will permit me to mention in these remarks of farewell, a truth embodied in our Declaration of Independence: that the case for inalienable rights, that the idea of human dignity, that the notion of conscience above compulsion can be made only in the context of higher law, only in the context of what one of the founders of this organization, Secretary-General Dag Hammarskjold, has called devotion to something which is greater and higher than we are ourselves.
This is the endless cycle, the final truth to which humankind seems always to return: that religion and morality, that faith in something higher, are prerequisites for freedom and that justice and peace within ourselves is the first step toward justice and peace in the world and for the ages.
Yes, this is a place of great debate and grave discussions.
And yet I cannot help but note here that one of our Founding Fathers, the most worldly of men, an internationalist, Benjamin Franklin, interrupted the proceedings of our own Constitutional Convention to make much the same point.
And I cannot help but think this morning of other beginnings, of where and when I first read those words: And they shall beat their swords into plowshares.
and your young men shall see visions and your old men shall dream dreams.
This morning, my thoughts go to her who gave me many things in life, but her most important gift was the knowledge of happiness and solace to be gained in prayer.
It's the greatest help I have had in my Presidency, and I recall here Lincoln's words when he said only the most foolish of men would think he could confront the duties of the office I now hold without turning to someone stronger, a power above all others.
I think then of her and others like her in that small town in Illinois, gentle people who possessed something that those who hold positions of power sometimes forget to prize.
No one of them could ever have imagined the boy from the banks of the Rock River would come to this moment and have this opportunity.
But had they been told it would happen, I think they would have been a bit disappointed if I had not spoken here for what they knew so well: that when we grow weary of the world and its troubles, when our faith in humanity falters, it is then that we must seek comfort and refreshment of spirit in a deeper source of wisdom, one greater than ourselves.
And so, if future generations do say of us that in our time peace came closer, that we did bring about new seasons of truth and justice, it will be cause for pride.
But it shall be a cause of greater pride, still, if it is also said that we were wise enough to know the deliberations of great leaders and great bodies are but overture, that the truly majestic music  the music of freedom, of justice, and peace  is the music made in forgetting self and seeking in silence the will of Him who made us.
Thank you for your hospitality over the years.
I bid you now farewell, and God bless you.
Thank you very much, thank you.
Please be seated.
Those who live today remember those who do not.
Those who know freedom remember today those who gave up life for freedom.
Today, in honor of the dead, we conduct ceremonies.
We lay wreaths.
We speak words of tribute.
And in our memories, in our hearts, we hold them close to us still.
Yet we also know, even as their families knew when they last looked upon them, that they can never be fully ours again, that they belong now to God and to that for which they so selflessly made a final and eternal act of devotion.
We could not forget them.
Even if they were not our own, we could not forget them.
For all time, they are what we can only aspire to be: giving, unselfish, the epitome of human love-to lay down one's life so that others might live.
We think on their lives.
We think on their final moments.
In our mind's eye, we see young Americans in a European forest or on an Asian island or at sea or in aerial combat.
And as life expired, we know that those who could had last thoughts of us and of their love for us.
As they thought of us then, so, too, we think of them now, with love, with devotion, and with faith: the certainty that what they died for was worthy of their sacrifice-faith, too, in God and in the Nation that has pledged itself to His work and to the dream of human freedom, and a nation, too, that today and always pledges itself to their eternal memory.
Thank you.
God bless you.
Well, thank you very much for that warm welcome.
Governor Baliles, Congressman Slaughter, and my very special thanks, too, to Senator Warner and President O'Neil for suggesting this invitation.
And you know, as President, I have certain privileges.
So, I checked with President O'Neil, and I am delighted to announce that starting Monday night you all have 4 weeks off.
But here at UVA, we are surrounded with memories of Thomas Jefferson.
One of my staff mentioned that Thomas Jefferson's favorite recreation was horseback riding, and I said he was a wise man.
And another member of the staff said that Thomas Jefferson thought the White House was a noble edifice, and I said he was a man of refined taste.
And a third staff member noted that, after retiring as President, Thomas Jefferson, in his seventies, did not sit back and rest, but founded the University of Virginia; and I said: There's always an overachiever which makes it hard for the rest of us.
But no speaker can come to these grounds or see the Lawn without appreciating the symmetry not just of the architecture but of the mind that created it.
The man to whom that mind belonged is known to you as  Jefferson.
And I think the familiarity of that term is justified; his influence here is everywhere.
And yet, while those of you at UVA are fortunate to have before you physical reminders of the power of your founder's intellect and imagination, it should be remembered that all you do here, indeed, all of higher education in America, bears signs, too, of his transforming genius.
The pursuit of science, the study of the great works, the value of free inquiry, in short, the very idea of the living the life of the mind  yes, these formative and abiding principles of higher education in America had their first and firmest advocate, and their greatest embodiment, in a tall, fair-headed, friendly man who watched this university take form from the mountainside where he lived, the university whose founding he called a crowning achievement to a long and well-spent life.
Well, you are not alone in feeling his presence.
Presidents know about this, too.
You've heard many times that during the first year of his Presidency, John F.
Kennedy said to a group of Nobel laureates in the State Dining Room of the White House that there had not been such a collection of talent in that place since Jefferson dined there alone.
And directly down the lawn and across the Ellipse from the White House are those ordered, classic lines of the Jefferson Memorial and the eyes of the 19-foot statue that gaze directly into the White House, a reminder to any of us who might occupy that mansion of the quality of mind and generosity of heart that once abided there and has been so rarely seen there again.
But it is not just students and Presidents, it is every American  indeed, every human life ever touched by the daring idea of self-government  that  Jefferson has influenced.
Yes,  Jefferson was obliged to admit all previous attempts at popular government had proven themselves failures.
But he believed that here on this continent, as one of his commentators put it, ``here was virgin soil, an abundance of land, no degrading poverty, a brave and intelligent people which had just vindicated its title to independence after a long struggle with the mightiest of European powers.
''Well, here was another chance, an opportunity for enlightened government, government based on the principles of reason and tolerance, government that left to the people the fruits of their labor and the pursuit of their own definition of happiness in the form of commerce or education or religion.
And so, it is no wonder he asked that his epitaph read simply: ``Here was born  Thomas Jefferson, Author of the Declaration of  Independence, of the Statute of Virginia for religious freedom, and Father of the University of Virginia.
''Well, as that epitaph shows, for all his learning and bookishness,  Jefferson was a practical man, a man who made things, things like a university, a State government, a National Government.
In founding and sustaining these institutions, he wanted them to be based on the same symmetry, the same balance of mind and faith in human creativity evidenced in the Lawn.
He had known personal tragedy.
He knew how disorderly a place the world could be.
Indeed, as a leader of a rebellion, he was himself an architect, if you will, of disorder.
But he also believed that man had received from God a precious gift of enlightenment  the gift of reason, a gift that could extract from the chaos of life meaning, truth, order.
Just as we see in his architecture, the balancing of circular with linear, of rotunda with pillar, we see in his works of government the same disposition toward balance, toward symmetry and harmony.
He knew successful self-government meant bringing together disparate interests and concerns, balancing, for example, on the one hand, the legitimate duties of government  the maintenance of domestic order and protection from foreign menace  with government's tendency to preempt its citizens' rights, take the fruits of their labors, and reduce them ultimately to servitude.
So he knew that governing meant balance, harmony.
And he knew from personal experience the danger posed to such harmony by the voices of unreason, special privilege, partisanship, or intolerance.
And I do mean personal experience.
You see, despite all of George Washington's warnings about the divisiveness of the partisan spirit, Federalists and Republicans were constantly at each other in those days.
The Federalists of the Northeast had held power for a long time and were not anxious to relinquish it.
Years later, a New York Congressman honored the good old days when, as he put it, ``a Federalist could knock a Republican down in the streets of New York and not be questioned about it.
'' The Federalists referred to  Jefferson as  and here I quote  ``a mean-spirited, low-lived fellow, raised wholly on hotcake made of coarse-ground Southern corn, bacon, and hominy, with an occasional fricasseed bullfrog.
''  Well, by the way  was the 1800 equivalent of what I believe is known here at UVA as a Gus Burger.
And an editorial in the Federalist Connecticut Courant also announced that as soon as  Jefferson was elected, ``Murder, robbery, rape, and adultery and incest will be openly taught and practiced.
'' Well, that was politics in 1800.
So, you see, not all that much has changed.
Actually, I have taken a moment for these brief reflections on Thomas Jefferson and his time precisely because there are such clear parallels to our own.
We too have seen a new populism in America, not at all unlike that of Jefferson's time.
We've seen the growth of a Jefferson-like populism that rejects the burden placed on the people by excessive regulation and taxation; that rejects the notion that judgeships should be used to further privately held beliefs not yet approved by the people; and finally, rejects, too, the notion that foreign policy must reflect only the rarefied concerns of Washington rather than the common sense of a people who can frequently see far more plainly dangers to their freedom and to our national well-being.
It is this latter point that brings me to the University of Virginia today.
There has been much change in the last 8 years in our foreign relations; and this September, when I spoke to the United Nations, I summarized much of the progress we have seen in such matters as the human rights agenda, arms reduction, and resolving those regional conflicts that might lead to wider war.
I will not recite all of this here again today, but I do want you to know I found in the delegates afterward a warmth that I had not seen before  let me assure you, not due to any eloquence on my part but just a simple perception on their part that there is a chance for an opening, a new course in human events.
I think I detected a sense of excitement, even perhaps like that felt by those who lived in Jefferson's time: a sense of new possibilities for the idea of popular government.
Only this time, it is not just a single nation at issue: It is the whole world where popular government might flourish and prosper.
Only a few years ago, this would have seemed the most outlandish and dreamiest of prospects.
But consider for just a moment the striving for democracy that we have seen in places like the Philippines, Burma, Korea, Chile, Poland, South Africa  even places like China and the Soviet Union.
One of the great, unnoticed  and yet most startling  developments of this decade is this: More of the world's populace is today living in relative freedom than ever before in history; more and more nations are turning to freely elected democratic governments.
The statistics themselves are compelling.
According to one organization, Freedom House, in the past 15 years the number of countries called not free declined from 71 to 50.
And the countries classified as free or partly free increased from 92 to 117.
When you consider that, according to the Freedom House count, 70 percent of those not living in freedom are in China and the Soviet Union  and even in those nations, as I say, we see glimpses of hope  the picture is even brighter.
The most dramatic movement of all has taken place: More than 90 percent of the people are now living in countries that are democratic or headed in that direction.
This democratic revolution has been accompanied by a change in economic thinking comparable to the Newtonian revolution in physics, and that is no accident.
Free-market economies have worked miracles in several nations of East Asia.
A U.
N.
General Assembly special session on Africa has called for more market-oriented structural reform in that region.
In Europe the tide is against state ownership of property.
And even in China and the Soviet Union the theoretical underpinnings of Socialist economics are being reexamined.
In this atmosphere, we have continued to emphasize prudent but deepening development of economic ties which are critical to our economic health in the conduct of our foreign policy.
In our own hemisphere, we are about to implement an historic free trade agreement between the United States and Canada that could well serve as a model for the world.
These democratic and free-market revolutions are really the same revolution.
They are based on the vital nexus between economic and political freedom and on the Jeffersonian idea that freedom is indivisible, that government's attempts to encroach on that freedom  whether it be through political restrictions on the rights of assembly, speech, or publication, or economic repression through high taxation and excessive bureaucracy  have been the principal institutional barrier to human progress.
But if this remarkable revolution has not been obvious to many, certainly one other eye-opening change has been self-evident.
Consider for just a moment the sights we have seen this year: an American President with his Soviet counterpart strolling through Red Square and talking to passers-by about war and peace; an American President there in the Lenin Hills of Moscow speaking to the students of Moscow State University, young people like yourselves, about the wonder and splendor of human freedom; an American President, only last week, with a future American President and the President of the Soviet Union standing in New York Harbor, looking up at Lady Liberty, hearing again the prayer on the lips of all those millions who once passed that way in hope of a better life and future  a prayer of peace and freedom for all humanity.
And, yes, even this week in the devastation of Armenia, Americans and Russians making common cause, as we once made common cause against another terrible enemy 44 years ago.
But it is not the visuals and the sound bites that matter.
Behind all of this is a record of diplomatic movement and accomplishment.
One of those visuals you have seen in the last year is the signing of accords between  Gorbachev and me and the destruction of American and Soviet missiles.
It was more than just good television, more than just action news.
The INF treaty is the first accord in history to eliminate an entire class of U.
S.
and Soviet nuclear missiles.
And the START treaty, which deals with far larger arsenals of long-range  or what the experts call strategic  weapons, calls for 50-percent reductions in such weapons.
In Geneva, where the portions of the draft treaty disputed by one side or the other are put in brackets, we are slowly seeing those brackets disappear.
So, the treaty is coming closer.
And so, too, there is progress on nuclear-testing agreements and chemical weapons, and we are about to begin new negotiations on the conventional balance in Europe.
Gorbachev's recent announcement at the U.
N.
about troop reductions was most welcome and appreciated, but it is important to remember this is a part of and the result of a larger disarmament process set in motion several years ago.
Another area where the achievements are visible is that of regional conflicts.
In Afghanistan, we have seen a settlement leading towards Soviet withdrawal.
In Cambodia, the first steps have been taken toward withdrawal of Vietnamese troops.
In Brazzaville,justthisTuesday,anAmerican-mediated accord was signed that will send some 50,000 Cuban soldiers home from Angola  the second reversal of Cuban military imperialism after our rescue of Grenada in 1983.
In the matter of human rights, we have also seen extraordinary progress: the release of some political prisoners in the Soviet Union, initial steps toward a reduction of state economic controls and more politically representative forms of government, some greater scope to publish and speak critically, an increase in emigration, and visible steps toward greater religious freedom.
And finally, in our bilateral exchanges, we are seeing more Soviet and American citizens visiting each other's land and a greater interchange of scientific, cultural, and intellectual traditions.
The summits themselves are indications of the progress we have made here.
I look to the day when the meetings between the leaders of the Soviet Union and the United States will be regular and frequent and maybe not quite so newsworthy.
Where we are strong, steadfast; we succeed.
In the Persian Gulf, the United States made clear its commitment to defend freedom of navigation and free world interests.
And this helped hasten an end to the Gulf war.
And the country stood firm for years, insisting that the PLO had to accept Israel's right to exist, sign on to Resolutions 242 and 338, and renounce terrorism.
And now that resolve has paid off.
Now the democratic revolution that I talked about earlier and all the change and movement and, yes, breakthroughs that I have just cited on the diplomatic front can be directly attributed to the restoration of confidence on the part of democratic nations.
There can be little doubt that in the decade of the eighties the cause of freedom and human rights has prospered and the specter of nuclear war has been pushed back because the democracies have recovered their strength  their compass.
Here at home, a national consensus on the importance of strong American leadership is emerging.
As I said before the Congress at the start of this year: No legacy would make me more proud than leaving in place such a consensus for the cause of world freedom, a consensus that prevents a paralysis of American power from ever occurring again.
Now, I think much of the reason for all of this has to do with the new coherence and clarity that we have brought to our foreign policy, a new coherence based on a strong reaffirmation of values by the allied nations.
The same idea that so energized  Jefferson and the other founders of this nation  the idea of popular government  has driven the revival of the West and a renewal of its values and its beliefs in itself.
But now the question: How do we keep the world moving toward the idea of popular government? Well, today I offer three thoughts  reflections and warnings at the same time  on how the Soviet-American relationship can continue to improve and how the cause of peace and freedom can be served.
First, the Soviet-American relationship: Once marked by sterility and confrontation, this relationship is now characterized by dialog  realistic, candid dialog  serious diplomatic progress, and the sights and sounds of summitry.
All of this is heady, inspiring.
And yet my first reflection for you today is: All of it is still in doubt.
And the only way to make it last and grow and become permanent is to remember we are not there yet.
Serious problems, fundamental differences remain.
Our system is one of checks and balances.
Theirs, for all its reforms, remains a one-party authoritarian system that institutionalizes the concentration of power.
Our foreign relations embrace this expanding world of democracy that I have described.
Theirs can be known by the company they keep: Cuba, Nicaragua, Ethiopia, Libya, Vietnam, North Korea.
Yes, we welcome  Gorbachev's recent announcement of a troop reduction, but let us remember that the Soviet preponderance in military power in Europe remains, an asymmetry that offends our Jeffersonian senses and endangers our future.
So, we must keep our heads, and that means keeping our skepticism.
We must realize that what has brought us here has not been easy, not for ourselves nor for all of those who have sacrificed and contributed to the cause of freedom in the postwar era.
So, this means in our treaty negotiations, as I have said: Trust, but verify.
I am not a linguist, but I learned to say that much Russian and have used it in frequent meetings with  Gorbachev: ``Dovorey no provorey.
'' It means keeping our military strong.
It means remembering no treaty is better than a bad treaty.
It means remembering the accords of Moscow and Washington summits followed many years of standing firm on our principles and our interests, and those of our allies.
And finally, we need to recall that in the years of detente we tended to forget the greatest weapon the democracies have in their struggle is public candor: the truth.
We must never do that again.
It's not an act of belligerence to speak to the fundamental differences between totalitarianism and democracy; it is a moral imperative.
It does not slow down the pace of negotiations; it moves them forward.
Throughout history, we see evidence that adversaries negotiate seriously with democratic nations only when they knew the democracies harbor no illusions about those adversaries.
A second reflection I have on all this concerns some recent speculation that what is happening in the Soviet Union was in its way inevitable, that since the death of Stalin the Soviet state would have to evolve into a more moderate and status quo power in accordance with some vague theory of convergence.
I think this is wrong.
It's also dangerous, because what we see in the Soviet Union today is a change of a different order than in the past.
For example, whatever the Khrushchev era may or may not have represented in Soviet internal politics, we know how aspirations for greater freedom were crushed in Poland and Germany and, even more bloodily, in Hungary.
We also saw the construction of the Berlin Wall.
We saw Cuba become an active client state, a client state spreading subversion throughout Latin America and bringing the entire world to the brink of war with the ``missiles of October.
''And let me assure you,  Khrushchev gave no speeches at the U.
N.
like that recently given by  Gorbachev.
As one British U.
N.
official said about Khrushchev appearances there: ``We were never quite sure whether it was, indeed,  Khrushchev's shoe being used to pound the Soviet desk or whether  Gromyko's shoe had been borrowed or whether there was an extra shoe kept under the Soviet podium especially for banging purposes.
'' Now, all of this was hardly encouraging for the growth of freedom and the path to peace.
We know too what happened in the Brezhnev era: greater and greater expansionism; Afghanistan; economic decay and overwhelming corruption; a greater and greater burden on the peoples of the Soviet Union, on all the peoples of the world.
Now this is changing.
How much and how fast it will change we do not know.
I would like to think that actions by this country, particularly our willingness to make ourselves clear  our expressions of firmness and will evidenced by our plain talk, strong defenses, vibrant alliances, and readiness to use American power when American power was needed  helped to prompt the reappraisal that Soviet leaders have undertaken of their previous policies.
Even more, Western resolve demonstrated that the hardline advocated by some within the Soviet Union would be fruitless, just as our economic successes have set a shining example.
As I suggested in 1982, if the West maintained its strength, we would see economic needs clash with the political order in the Soviet Union.
This has happened.
But it could not have happened if the West had not maintained  indeed, strengthened  its will, its commitment to world freedom.
So, there was nothing inevitable about all of this.
Human actions made the difference.
Gorbachev has taken some daring steps.
As I have said before, this is the first Soviet leader not to make world revolution a priority.
Well, let us credit those steps.
Let us credit him.
And let us remember, too, that the democracies, with their strength and resolve and candor, have also made a difference.
And this is the heart of my point: What happens in the next few years, whether all this progress is continued or ended  this is, in large part, up to us.
It's why now, more then ever, we must not falter.
American power must be exercised morally, of course, but it must also be exercised, and exercised effectively.
For the cause of peace and freedom in the eighties, that power made all the difference.
The nineties will prove no different.
And this brings us to my third point: the relationship between the Executive and the Congress.
It's precisely where Congress and the President have worked together  as in Afghanistan and Cambodia, or resolved differences, as in Angola, the Persian Gulf, and many aspects of U.
S.
-Soviet relations  precisely there, our policies have succeeded, and we see progress.
But where Congress and the President have engaged each other as adversaries, as over Central America, U.
S.
policies have faltered and our common purposes have not been achieved.
Congress' on-again, off-again indecisiveness on resisting Sandinista tyranny and aggression has left Central America a region of continuing danger.
Sometimes congressional actions in foreign affairs have had the effect of institutionalizing that kind of adversarial relationship.
We see it in the War Powers Resolution, in the attempted restrictions on the President's power to implement treaties, and on trade policy.
We see it in the attempt to manage complex issues of foreign policy by the blunt instrument of legislation  such as unduly restrictive intelligence oversight, limits on arms transfers, and earmarking of 95 percent of our foreign assistance  denying a President the ability to respond flexibly to rapidly changing conditions.
Even in arms reduction, a President's ability to succeed depends on congressional support for military modernization  sometimes attempts are made to weaken my hand.
The Founding Fathers understood the need for effectiveness, coherence, consistency, and flexibility in the conduct of foreign affairs.
As Jefferson himself said: ``The transaction of business with foreign nations is Executive altogether.
It belongs, then, to the head of that department, except as to such portions of it as are specially submitted to the Senate.
Exceptions are to be construed strictly.
''Well, the President and the Vice President are elected by all the people.
So, too, is the Congress as a collegial body.
All who are elected to serve in these coordinate departments of our National Government have one unmistakable and undeniable mandate: to preserve, protect, and defend the Constitution.
To this  this foremost  they must always be attentive.
For a President, it means protecting his office and its place in our constitutional framework.
In doing that, the President is accountable to the people in the most direct way, accountable to history and to his own conscience.
The President and Congress, to be sure, share many responsibilities.
But their roles are not the same.
Congress alone, for example, has the power of the purse.
The President is chief executive, chief diplomat, and commander in chief.
How these great branches of government perform their legitimate roles is critically important to the Nation's ability to succeed, nowhere more so than in the field of foreign affairs.
They need each other and must work together in common cause with all deference, but within their separate spheres.
Today we live in a world in which America no longer enjoys preponderant power, but must lead by example and persuasion; a world of pressing new challenges to our economic prosperity; a world of new opportunities for peace and of new dangers.
In such a world, more than ever, America needs strong and consistent leadership, and the strength and resilience of the Presidency are vital.
I think if we can keep these concerns in mind during the coming years public debate and support will be enhanced and America's foreign policy will continue to prosper.
All of us know the terrible importance of maintaining the progress we have made in the decade of the eighties.
We're moving away from war and confrontation toward peace and freedom, and today toward a future beyond the imaginings of the past.
These are the stakes.
Some may find such prospects daunting.
I think you should find them challenging and exciting.
And I think you can see that in all of this you and your country will have a special role to play.
The issue before the world is still the same as the one that Jefferson faced so squarely and so memorably: Can human beings manage their own affairs? Is self-determination and popular, representative government possible?  Jefferson's work and life amounted to a great, mighty assent to that question.
So, too, will yours and America's if we can keep in mind the greatest and last lesson of Jefferson's life.
And it has something to do with what I just spoke to  about the Executive and Congress.
I am fond of recollecting that in the last years of their lives John Adams and Thomas Jefferson, who had worked so hard and well together for the Nation's independence, both came to regret that they had let partisan differences come between them.
For years their estrangement lasted.
But then, when both retired, Jefferson at 68 to Monticello and Adams at 76 to Quincy, they began through their letters to speak again to each other, letters that discussed almost every conceivable subject: gardening, horseback riding, even sneezing as a cure for hiccups    but other subjects as well: the loss of loved ones; the mystery of grief and sorrow; the importance of religion; and, of course, the last thoughts, the final hopes of two old men, two great patriarchs, for the country that they had helped to found and loved so deeply.
It carries me back, Jefferson wrote about his correspondence with his cosigner of the Declaration of Independence, ``to the times when, beset with difficulties and dangers, we were fellow laborers in the same cause, struggling for what is most valuable to man: his right to self-government.
Laboring always at the same oar, with some wave ever ahead threatening to overwhelm us and yet passing harmless we rowed through the storm with heart and hand.
''It was their last gift to us, this lesson in tolerance for each other, in charity, this insight into America's strength as a nation.
And when both died on the same day, within hours of each other, the date was July 4th, 50 years exactly after that first gift to us: the Declaration of Independence.
A great future is ours and the world's if we but remember the power of those words  Jefferson penned not just for Americans but for all humanity: ``that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable Rights, that among these are Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness.
''Thank you, and God bless you.
Well, we want to help promote this democracy in the Soviet Union, but I believe that we have got to proceed by watching whether deeds match the words.
Now, in some instances, they certainly have  permitting me, for example, to speak to the students at the University of Moscow.
I found out afterward, however, that they could not get all the student body in, only a few hundred.
So, they decided that the few hundred would be those who were members of the Young Communist League.
But Ithink that there are differences between us and with this man.
When we had the first summit at Geneva, and I will try not to make my answers this long again, people more experienced in this who would be on our team told me that if we could get just the agreement to a second summit that the summit would be worthwhile.
Well, I had an idea of my own in the first meeting.
And as we sat, they on their side of the table and my team on ours, I looked across the table at the General Secretary  you know, I do not know which to call him; he is got three titles now: General Secretary, President, and Chairman    then he was the General Secretary  and I suggested that why did not we leave our teams here to start talking  the subject that was raised was disarmament  and why did not he and I go out and get some air?Well, he jumped up before I even finished speaking.
And out we went.
And it was planned; there was a fire in the fireplace.
It was very cold that day  down in a little house along the lake from below where we were  so we walked down.
And for an hour and a half, he and I had a meeting and a discussion.
And then we decided we had better get back up to the regular meeting.
And we were just outside the building, and he said something to me about that I had never seen Russia.
And I turned to him and said, ``And you have never seen the United States.
You've never been in the United States before.
'' I said, ``We're having the summit here.
Why do not we have the next summit in the United States, and I hereby invite you?'' And he said, ``I accept.
'' And he said, ``Then why do not we have the following one in 1987 in the Soviet Union?'' I said, ``I accept.
''Well, when I told our people that we were already scheduled for two more summits    in our two countries, they almost fell down.
They could not believe it.
So, immediately we saw a great difference between this man and the previous leaders of the Soviet Union.
You see, I had not had much chance to meet with them.
They kept dying on me.
Middle East Peace Efforts Well, it is merely a step forward to that because peace, which does not exist there  most people forget that those countries are still technically are in a state of war with each other  it is only going to come when the principals come together to negotiate.
Outside, we have been trying to help, and internationally and so forth, with the other nations.
And this has been a great step forward.
And again, it was similar to our using strength and sticking to our purpose in other areas that brought it about.
We had said from the very first that there were these main points, the 242 and 338  resolutions, the recognition of Israel's right to exist as a nation  which had never been advanced before  and things of this kind that had to be agreed to before we could have a dialog with the PLO, which was the principal opponent.
And when that took place, as it just did for the first time, clearly and without fuzzing it up with ambiguous dialog, when they met those terms, we said yes.
And already the process is going forward to arrange for that dialog.
But the peace must be brought about by the principals in the dispute, and we are hoping that this now is the main step that will lead us toward that.
Terrorism Well, I think that the next administration  if I am correct in your question there  yes, will continue the policy.
We adopted a policy of complete resistance to terrorism: no recognition of a country that supported it  and there were countries that did.
And I think an example, the shortest example that I can give you, was when we had the irrefutable proof that Qadhafi of Libya had been responsible for terrorism that took the lives of a number of people at an airport in Europe, including some Americans  we responded.
And I am going to knock on wood  just one more line on that.
Since that response, there has been no Libyan terrorist move against any  Advice to Youth I know I speak for many of us when I say your words carry very special significance.
What advice do you offer us as we approach a new century in an ever more uncertain future?> Oh! Oh!  The age group 18 to 24 among voters is the one that is most definitely in support of the type of things that we have been doing in these 8 years.
But now, I have to say to you, it is the age group also in which the fewest number, or proportion, vote.
So, I would suggest to you  because it is your world that we are talking about, and if you have not gotten around to registering or bothering to vote, or you know someone that has not, make sure that age group of yours, who are going to have to take over the reins of government pretty soon  that you make your views known in the polling place.
I think this is most vital.
And then, oh, I could lobby for an awful lot of things    like a balanced budget amendment and a line-item veto.
Your Governor has that.
I had it when I was Governor of California  the line-item veto.
Administration Accomplishments Thank you for your advice.
I had like to know what you feel are your most significant accomplishments in the areas of, number one, foreign policy, and, number two, domestic policy?> What do I feel was the most important accomplishment? Well, I think in both of those that we have redressed in foreign policy our strength.
When I took office, on any given day, half of the military aircraft of the United States could not fly for lack of spare parts.
Half of the ships in our Navy could not leave port for much the same reason, or lack of crew.
And I immediately met with the Joint Chiefs of Staff and wanted to talk to them about restoring a patriotism where the young men and women in uniform would not feel they had to get into civilian clothes when they left the base, but would be proud to be seen wearing the uniform.
Today a higher percentage of our military are high school graduates  and it is a volunteer military  than ever in our history.
And there are three intelligence brackets used in the military for the assignment of people as to what proper functions and so forth  the highest percentage in the top intelligence bracket that we have ever known before in our military.
And of all the things I am proud of, I am proud of the young men and women who are wearing our uniform more than anything.
But this redressing of that  but also, I came into office thinking that  for some time I was thinking that there was a hunger for a spiritual revival in America, and I think that has taken place.
I hear from more and more people talking about the pride they have in country.
On the economic front  I got a degree in economics.
I did not deserve it, but I got it.
But I took away  I remembered something that happened several hundred years ago    and it was a man named ibn-Khaldun in Egypt.
I did not know they had economists then, but ibn-Khaldun said that at the beginning of the empire the tax rates were low and the revenue was great.
At the end of the empire, the rates were great and the revenue was low.
So, I came away with the belief that you did not gain revenue by raising taxes.
And in fact, our whole national experience proves it.
When Coolidge took to tax reductions, the revenue of the Government increased.
And the same thing happened to a certain extent with President Kennedy's tax reduction, which was similar to ours.
So, one of my first goals was to unleash the economy of this country and get government off the backs and out of an adversarial relationship with the private sector so that the people of this country could do with their freedom what they were intended to do.
That's all we really have done in this administration: We got out of your way.
And we have these people that still say that we have a target of 1993 for a balanced budget.
And we are meeting that target on every step now.
But these people that still are talking that we are going to have to raise taxes  they will undo the great economic reform.
We have created almost 19 million new jobs in these several years of economic reform.
This personal disposable income after taxes has risen higher than it ever was before.
And government revenues from the income tax increased by $375 billion since we implemented our tax reform and our tax cut.
The trouble is spending increased $450 billion.
I have not had a budget yet.
By law I have to submit a budget every year.
I do, and present company excepted, the Congress just puts it on the shelf and sends me a continuing resolution of their own doing.
So, I think the great economic recovery.
I have had the pleasure of facing a number of our trading partners, the heads of state of our trading partners  Japan, Germany, France, the United Kingdom, and on and on  in a meeting and had them  I was the new kid in school.
They'd all been there longer than I had.
And they were sitting there silently, and then one of them, a spokesman, said, Tell us about the American miracle.
Well, the American miracle was simply the unleashing of resources, and the last point was regulations.
George Bush I put in charge of a task force to see how many government regulations he could eliminate.
He eliminated so many that our estimate today is that the paperwork imposed upon you and on community governments and on State Governments has been reduced by 600 million man-hours a year.
Well, I got too long on that answer.
President's Future Plans Well, you know, in Hollywood if you do not sing or dance, you wind up as an after-dinner speaker.
And so, that was my personal appearance role  was a speaker out there on the mashed-potato circuit.
And there are always  I think for everyone who ever leaves this post there are things you did not get done.
And I think I will be out on the mashed-potato circuit again, extolling the virtues of line-item veto and a balanced budget amendment    and again, defending the right of us to maintain our military defenses and so forth.
And I am very tempted about the idea  somebody's talking to me about doing a book.
And there are some backstage stories that I might enjoy getting out.
But I am going to be active.
I am not going to be up at the ranch any more than  much that I have been able to on the visits that I occasionally make there.
But I am going to be active.
And I know that Nancy's going to continue her activity in the antidrug campaign, too.
Were you the last one, or is there a sixth? Did I miscount? O'Neil.
That was the sixth.
That was the sixth? All right.
I miscounted.
Thank you very much.
This is the 34th time I will speak to you from the Oval Office, and the last.
We've been together eight years now, and soon it will be time for me to go.
But before I do, I wanted to share some thoughts, some of which I have been saving for a long time.
It's been the honor of my life to be your President.
So many of you have written the past few weeks to say thanks, but I could say as much to you.
Nancy and I are grateful for the opportunity you gave us to serve.
One of the things about the Presidency is that you are always somewhat apart.
You spent a lot of time going by too fast in a car someone else is driving, and seeing the people through tinted glass  the parents holding up a child, and the wave you saw too late and could not return.
And so many times I wanted to stop and reach out from behind the glass, and connect.
Well, maybe I can do a little of that tonight.
People ask how I feel about leaving.
And the fact is, parting is such sweet sorrow.
The sweet part is California and the ranch and freedom.
The sorrow  the goodbyes, of course, and leaving this beautiful place.
You know, down the hall and up the stairs from this office is the part of the White House where the President and his family live.
There are a few favorite windows I have up there that I like to stand and look out of early in the morning.
The view is over the grounds here to the Washington Monument, and then the Mall and the Jefferson Memorial.
But on mornings when the humidity is low, you can see past the Jefferson to the river, the Potomac, and the Virginia shore.
Someone said that is the view Lincoln had when he saw the smoke rising from the Battle of Bull Run.
I see more prosaic things: the grass on the banks, the morning traffic as people make their way to work, now and then a sailboat on the river.
I have been thinking a bit at that window.
I have been reflecting on what the past eight years have meant and mean.
And the image that comes to mind like a refrain is a nautical one  a small story about a big ship, and a refugee, and a sailor.
It was back in the early '80s, at the height of the boat people.
And the sailor was hard at work on the carrier Midway, which was patrolling the South China Sea.
The sailor, like most American servicemen, was young, smart, and fiercely observant.
The crew spied on the horizon a leaky little boat.
And crammed inside were refugees from Indochina hoping to get to America.
The Midway sent a small launch to bring them to the ship and safety.
As the refugees made their way through the choppy seas, one spied the sailor on deck, and stood up, and called out to him.
He yelled, Hello, American sailor.
Hello, freedom man.
A small moment with a big meaning, a moment the sailor, who wrote it in a letter, could not get out of his mind.
And, when I saw it, neither could I.
Because that is what it was to be an American in the 1980s.
We stood, again, for freedom.
I know we always have, but in the past few years the world again  and in a way, we ourselves  rediscovered it.
It's been quite a journey this decade, and we held together through some stormy seas.
And at the end, together, we are reaching our destination.
The fact is, from Grenada to the Washington and Moscow summits, from the recession of '81 to '82, to the expansion that began in late '82 and continues to this day, we have made a difference.
The way I see it, there were two great triumphs, two things that I am proudest of.
One is the economic recovery, in which the people of America created  and filled  19 million new jobs.
The other is the recovery of our morale.
America is respected again in the world and looked to for leadership.
Something that happened to me a few years ago reflects some of this.
It was back in 1981, and I was attending my first big economic summit, which was held that year in Canada.
The meeting place rotates among the member countries.
The opening meeting was a formal dinner of the heads of goverment of the seven industrialized nations.
Now, I sat there like the new kid in school and listened, and it was all Francois this and Helmut that.
They dropped titles and spoke to one another on a first-name basis.
Well, at one point I sort of leaned in and said, My name's Ron.
Well, in that same year, we began the actions we felt would ignite an economic comeback  cut taxes and regulation, started to cut spending.
And soon the recovery began.
Two years later, another economic summit with pretty much the same cast.
At the big opening meeting we all got together, and all of a sudden, just for a moment, I saw that everyone was just sitting there looking at me.
And then one of them broke the silence.
Tell us about the American miracle, he said.
Well, back in 1980, when I was running for President, it was all so different.
Some pundits said our programs would result in catastrophe.
Our views on foreign affairs would cause war.
Our plans for the economy would cause inflation to soar and bring about economic collapse.
I even remember one highly respected economist saying, back in 1982, that The engines of economic growth have shut down here, and they are likely to stay that way for years to come.
Well, he and the other opinion leaders were wrong.
The fact is what they call radical was really right.
What they called dangerous was just desperately needed.
And in all of that time I won a nickname, The Great Communicator.
But I never thought it was my style or the words I used that made a difference: it was the content.
I was not a great communicator, but I communicated great things, and they did not spring full bloom from my brow, they came from the heart of a great nation  from our experience, our wisdom, and our belief in the principles that have guided us for two centuries.
They called it the Reagan revolution.
Well, I will accept that, but for me it always seemed more like the great rediscovery, a rediscovery of our values and our common sense.
Common sense told us that when you put a big tax on something, the people will produce less of it.
So, we cut the people's tax rates, and the people produced more than ever before.
The economy bloomed like a plant that had been cut back and could now grow quicker and stronger.
Our economic program brought about the longest peacetime expansion in our history: real family income up, the poverty rate down, entrepreneurship booming, and an explosion in research and new technology.
We're exporting more than ever because American industry because more competitive and at the same time, we summoned the national will to knock down protectionist walls abroad instead of erecting them at home.
Common sense also told us that to preserve the peace, we had have to become strong again after years of weakness and confusion.
So, we rebuilt our defenses, and this New Year we toasted the new peacefulness around the globe.
Not only have the superpowers actually begun to reduce their stockpiles of nuclear weapons  and hope for even more progress is bright  but the regional conflicts that rack the globe are also beginning to cease.
The Persian Gulf is no longer a war zone.
The Soviets are leaving Afghanistan.
The Vietnamese are preparing to pull out of Cambodia, and an American-mediated accord will soon send 50,000 Cuban troops home from Angola.
The lesson of all this was, of course, that because we are a great nation, our challenges seem complex.
It will always be this way.
But as long as we remember our first principles and believe in ourselves, the future will always be ours.
And something else we learned: Once you begin a great movement, there is no telling where it will end.
We meant to change a nation, and instead, we changed a world.
Countries across the globe are turning to free markets and free speech and turning away from the ideologies of the past.
For them, the great rediscovery of the 1980s has been that, lo and behold, the moral way of government is the practical way of government: Democracy, the profoundly good, is also the profoundly productive.
When you have got to the point when you can celebrate the anniversaries of your 39th birthday you can sit back sometimes, review your life, and see it flowing before you.
For me there was a fork in the river, and it was right in the middle of my life.
I never meant to go into politics.
It was not my intention when I was young.
But I was raised to believe you had to pay your way for the blessings bestowed on you.
I was happy with my career in the entertainment world, but I ultimately went into politics because I wanted to protect something precious.
Ours was the first revolution in the history of mankind that truly reversed the course of government, and with three little words: We the People.
We the People tell the government what to do; it does not tell us.
We the People are the driver; the government is the car.
And we decide where it should go, and by what route, and how fast.
Almost all the world's constitutions are documents in which governments tell the people what their privileges are.
Our Constitution is a document in which We the People tell the government what it is allowed to do.
We the People are free.
This belief has been the underlying basis for everything I have tried to do these past eight years.
But back in the 1960s, when I began, it seemed to me that we had begun reversing the order of things  that through more and more rules and regulations and confiscatory taxes, the government was taking more of our money, more of our options, and more of our freedom.
I went into politics in part to put up my hand and say, Stop.
I was a citizen politician, and it seemed the right thing for a citizen to do.
I think we have stopped a lot of what needed stopping.
And I hope we have once again reminded people that man is not free unless government is limited.
There's a clear cause and effect here that is as neat and predictable as a law of physics: As government expands, liberty contracts.
Nothing is less free than pure Communism  and yet we have, the past few years, forged a satisfying new closeness with the Soviet Union.
I have been asked if this is not a gamble, and my answer is no because we are basing our actions not on words but deeds.
The detente of the 1970s was based not on actions but promises.
They'd promise to treat their own people and the people of the world better.
But the gulag was still the gulag, and the state was still expansionist, and they still waged proxy wars in Africa, Asia, and Latin America.
Well, this time, so far, it is different.
President Gorbachev has brought about some internal democratic reforms and begun the withdrawal from Afghanistan.
He has also freed prisoners whose names I have given him every time we have met.
But life has a way of reminding you of big things through small incidents.
Once, during the heady days of the Moscow summit, Nancy and I decided to break off from the entourage one afternoon to visit the shops on Arbat Street  that is a little street just off Moscow's main shopping area.
Even though our visit was a surprise, every Russian there immediately recognized us and called out our names and reached for our hands.
We were just about swept away by the warmth.
