I have today signed an Executive Order providing for the establishment of a Peace Corps on a temporary pilot basis . I am also sending to Congress a message proposing authorization of a permanent Peace Corps . This Corps will be a pool of trained American men and women sent overseas by the Government or through private institutions and organizations to help foreign countries meet their urgent needs for skilled manpower . It is our hope to have 500 or more people in the field by the end of the year . The initial reactions to the Peace Corps proposal are convincing proof that we have , in this country , an immense reservoir of such men and women anxious to sacrifice their energies and time and toil to the cause of world peace and human progress . In establishing our Peace Corps we intend to make full use of the resources and talents of private institutions and groups . Universities , voluntary agencies , labor unions and industry will be asked to share in this effort contributing diverse sources of energy and imagination making it clear that the responsibility for peace is the responsibility of our entire society . We will only send abroad Americans who are wanted by the host country who have a real job to do and who are qualified to do that job . Programs will be developed with care , and after full negotiation , in order to make sure that the Peace Corps is wanted and will contribute to the welfare of other people . Our Peace Corps is not designed as an instrument of diplomacy or propaganda or ideological conflict . It is designed to permit our people to exercise more fully their responsibilities in the great common cause of world development . Life in the Peace Corps will not be easy . There will be no salary and allowances will be at a level sufficient only to maintain health and meet basic needs . Men and women will be expected to work and live alongside the nationals of the country in which they are stationed doing the same work , eating the same food , talking the same language . But if the life will not be easy , it will be rich and satisfying . For every young American who participates in the Peace Corps who works in a foreign land will know that he or she is sharing in the great common task of bringing to man that decent way of life which is the foundation of freedom and a condition of peace .<speech_sep>I have welcomed this opportunity to address this historic body , and , through you , the people of Massachusetts to whom I am so deeply indebted for a lifetime of friendship and trust . For fourteen years I have placed my confidence in the citizens of Massachusetts and they have generously responded by placing their confidence in me . Now , on the Friday after next , I am to assume new and broader responsibilities . But I am not here to bid farewell to Massachusetts . For forty three years whether I was in London , Washington , the South Pacific , or elsewhere this has been my home and , God willing , wherever I serve this shall remain my home . It was here my grandparents were born it is here I hope my grandchildren will be born . I speak neither from false provincial pride nor artful political flattery . For no man about to enter high office in this country can ever be unmindful of the contribution this state has made to our national greatness . Its leaders have shaped our destiny long before the great republic was born . Its principles have guided our footsteps in times of crisis as well as in times of calm . Its democratic institutions including this historic body have served as beacon lights for other nations as well as our sister states . For what Pericles said to the Athenians has long been true of this commonwealth We do not imitate for we are a model to others . And so it is that I carry with me from this state to that high and lonely office to which I now succeed more than fond memories of firm friendships . The enduring qualities of Massachusetts the common threads woven by the Pilgrim and the Puritan , the fisherman and the farmer , the Yankee and the immigrant will not be and could not be forgotten in this nation s executive mansion . They are an indelible part of my life , my convictions , my view of the past , and my hopes for the future . Allow me to illustrate During the last sixty days , I have been at the task of constructing an administration . It has been a long and deliberate process . Some have counseled greater speed . Others have counseled more expedient tests . But I have been guided by the standard John Winthrop set before his shipmates on the flagship Arbella three hundred and thirty one years ago , as they , too , faced the task of building a new government on a perilous frontier . We must always consider , he said , that we shall be as a city upon a hill the eyes of all people are upon us . Today the eyes of all people are truly upon us and our governments , in every branch , at every level , national , state and local , must be as a city upon a hill constructed and inhabited by men aware of their great trust and their great responsibilities . For we are setting out upon a voyage in 1961 no less hazardous than that undertaken by the Arabella in 1630 . We are committing ourselves to tasks of statecraft no less awesome than that of governing the Massachusetts Bay Colony , beset as it was then by terror without and disorder within . History will not judge our endeavors and a government cannot be selected merely on the basis of color or creed or even party affiliation . Neither will competence and loyalty and stature , while essential to the utmost , suffice in times such as these . For of those to whom much is given , much is required . And when at some future date the high court of history sits in judgment on each one of us recording whether in our brief span of service we fulfilled our responsibilities to the state our success or failure , in whatever office we may hold , will be measured by the answers to four questions First , were we truly men of courage with the courage to stand up to one s enemies and the courage to stand up , when necessary , to one s associates the courage to resist public pressure , as well as private greed Secondly , were we truly men of judgment with perceptive judgment of the future as well as the past of our own mistakes as well as the mistakes of others with enough wisdom to know that we did not know , and enough candor to admit it Third , were we truly men of integrity men who never ran out on either the principles in which they believed or the people who believed in them men who believed in us men whom neither financial gain nor political ambition could ever divert from the fulfillment of our sacred trust Finally , were we truly men of dedication with an honor mortgaged to no single individual or group , and compromised by no private obligation or aim , but devoted solely to serving the public good and the national interest . Courage judgment integrity dedicationthese are the historic qualities of the Bay Colony and the Bay State the qualities which this state has consistently sent to this chamber on Beacon Hill here in Boston and to Capitol Hill back in Washington . And these are the qualities which , with God s help , this son of Massachusetts hopes will characterize our government s conduct in the four stormy years that lie ahead . Humbly I ask His help in that undertaking but aware that on earth His will is worked by men . I ask for your help and your prayers , as I embark on this new and solemn journey .<speech_sep>President , honored delegates , ladies and gentlemen We meet in an hour of grief and challenge . Dag Hammarskjold is dead . But the United Nations lives . His tragedy is deep in our hearts , but the task for which he died is at the top of our agenda . A noble servant of peace is gone . But the quest for peace lies before us . The problem is not the death of one man the problem is the life of this organization . It will either grow to meet the challenges of our age , or it will be gone with the wind , without influence , without force , without respect . Were we to let it die , to enfeeble its vigor , to cripple its powers , we would condemn our future . For in the development of this organization rests the only true alternative to war and war appeals no longer as a rational alternative . Unconditional war can no longer lead to unconditional victory . It can no longer serve to settle disputes . It can no longer concern the great powers alone . For a nuclear disaster , spread by wind and water and fear , could well engulf the great and the small , the rich and the poor , the committed and the uncommitted alike . Mankind must put an end to war or war will put an end to mankind . So let us here resolve that Dag Hammarskjold did not live , or die , in vain . Let us call a truce to terror . Let us invoke the blessings of peace . And , as we build an international capacity to keep peace , let us join in dismantling the national capacity to wage war . This will require new strength and new roles for the United Nations . For disarmament without checks is but a shadow and a community without law is but a shell . Already the United Nations has become both the measure and the vehicle of man s most generous impulses . Already it has provided in the Middle East , in Asia , in Africa this year in the Congo a means of holding man s violence within bounds . But the great question which confronted this body in 1945 is still before us whether man s cherished hopes for progress and peace are to be destroyed by terror and disruption , whether the foul winds of war can be tamed in time to free the cooling winds of reason , and whether the pledges of our Charter are to be fulfilled or defied pledges to secure peace , progress , human rights and world law . In this Hall , there are not three forces , but two . One is composed of those who are trying to build the kind of world described in Articles I and II of the Charter . The other , seeking a far different world , would undermine this organization in the process . Today of all days our dedication to the Charter must be maintained . It must be strengthened first of all by the selection of an outstanding civil servant to carry forward the responsibilities of the Secretary General a man endowed with both the wisdom and the power to make meaningful the moral force of the world community . The late Secretary General nurtured and sharpened the United Nations obligation to act . But he did not invent it . It was there in the Charter . It is still there in the Charter . However difficult it may be to fill Hammarskjold s place , it can better be filled by one man rather than by three . Even the three horses of the Troika did not have three drivers , all going in different directions . They had only one and so must the United Nations executive . To install a triumvirate , or any panel , or any rotating authority , in the United Nations administrative offices would replace order with anarchy , action with paralysis , confidence with confusion . The Secretary General , in a very real sense , is the servant of the General Assembly . Diminish his authority and you diminish the authority of the only body where all nations , regardless of power , are equal and sovereign . Until all the powerful are just , the weak will be secure only in the strength of this Assembly . Effective and independent executive action is not the same question as balanced representation . In view of the enormous change in membership in this body since its founding , the American delegation will join in any effort for the prompt review and revision of the composition of United Nations bodies . But to give this organization three drivers to permit each great power to decide its own case , would entrench the Cold War in the headquarters of peace . Whatever advantages such a plan may hold out to my own country , as one of the great powers , we reject it . For we far prefer world law , in the age of self determination , to world war , in the age of mass extermination . Today , every inhabitant of this planet must contemplate the day when this planet may no longer be habitable . Every man , woman and child lives under a nuclear sword of Damocles , hanging by the slenderest of threads , capable of being cut at any moment by accident or miscalculation or by madness . The weapons of war must be abolished before they abolish us . Men no longer debate whether armaments are a symptom or a cause of tension . The mere existence of modern weapons ten million times more powerful than any that the world has ever seen , and only minutes away from any target on earth is a source of horror , and discord and distrust . Men no longer maintain that disarmament must await the settlement of all disputes for disarmament must be a part of any permanent settlement . And men may no longer pretend that the quest for disarmament is a sign of weakness for in a spiraling arms race , a nation s security may well be shrinking even as its arms increase . For 15 years this organization has sought the reduction and destruction of arms . Now that goal is no longer a dream it is a practical matter of life or death . The risks inherent in disarmament pale in comparison to the risks inherent in an unlimited arms race . It is in this spirit that the recent Belgrade Conference recognizing that this is no longer a Soviet problem or an American problem , but a human problem endorsed a program of general , complete and strictly an internationally controlled disarmament . It is in this same spirit that we in the United States have labored this year , with a new urgency , and with a new , now statutory agency fully endorsed by the Congress , to find an approach to disarmament which would be so far reaching yet realistic , so mutually balanced and beneficial , that it could be accepted by every nation . And it is in this spirit that we have presented with the agreement of the Soviet Union under the label both nations now accept of general and complete disarmament a new statement of newly agreed principles for negotiation . But we are well aware that all issues of principle are not settled , and that principles alone are not enough . It is therefore our intention to challenge the Soviet Union , not to an arms race , but to a peace race to advance together step by step , stage by stage , until general and complete disarmament has been achieved . We invite them now to go beyond agreement in principle to reach agreement on actual plans . The program to be presented to this assembly for general and complete disarmament under effective international control moves to bridge the gap between those who insist on a gradual approach and those who talk only of the final and total achievement . It would create machinery to keep the peace as it destroys the machinery Of war . It would proceed through balanced and safeguarded stages designed to give no state a military advantage over another . It would place the final responsibility for verification and control where it belongs , not with the big powers alone , not with one s adversary or one s self , but in an international organization within the framework of the United Nations . It would assure that indispensable condition of disarmament true inspection and apply it in stages proportionate to the stage of disarmament . It would cover delivery systems as well as weapons . It would ultimately halt their production as well as their testing , their transfer as well as their possession . It would achieve , under the eyes of an international disarmament organization , a steady reduction in force , both nuclear and conventional , until it has abolished all armies and all weapons except those needed for internal order and a new United Nations Peace Force . And it starts that process now , today , even as the talks begin . In short , general and complete disarmament must no longer be a slogan , used to resist the first steps . It is no longer to be a goal without means of achieving it , without means of verifying its progress , without means of keeping the peace . It is now a realistic plan , and a test a test of those only willing to talk and a test of those willing to act . Such a plan would not bring a world free from conflict and greed but it would bring a world free from the terrors of mass destruction It would not usher in the era of the super state but it would usher in an era in which no state could annihilate or be annihilated by another . In 1945 , this Nation proposed the Baruch Plan to internationalize the atom before other nations even possessed the bomb or demilitarized their troops . We proposed with our allies the Disarmament Plan of 1951 while still at war in Korea . And we make our proposals today , while building up our defenses over Berlin , not because we are inconsistent or insincere or intimidated , but because we know the rights of free men will prevail because while we are compelled against our will to rearm , we look confidently beyond Berlin to the kind of disarmed world we all prefer . I therefore propose , on the basis of this Plan , that disarmament negotiations resume promptly , and continue without interruption until an entire program for general and complete disarmament has not only been agreed but has been actually achieved . The logical place to begin is a treaty assuring the end of nuclear tests of all kinds , in every environment , under workable controls . The United States and the United Kingdom have proposed such a treaty that is both reasonable , effective and ready for signature . We are still prepared to sign that treaty today . We also proposed a mutual ban on atmospheric testing , without inspection or controls , in order to save the human race from the poison of radioactive fallout . We regret that that offer has not been accepted . For 15 years we have sought to make the atom an instrument of peaceful growth rather than of war . But for 15 years our concessions have been matched by obstruction , our patience by intransigence . And the pleas of mankind for peace have met with disregard . Finally , as the explosions of others beclouded the skies , my country was left with no alternative but to act in the interests of its own and the free world s security . We cannot endanger that security by refraining from testing while others improve their arsenals . Nor can we endanger it by another long , un inspected ban on testing . For three years we accepted those risks in our open society while seeking agreement on inspection . But this year , while we were negotiating in good faith in Geneva , others were secretly preparing new experiments in destruction . Our tests are not polluting the atmosphere . Our deterrent weapons are guarded against accidental explosion or use . Our doctors and scientists stand ready to help any nation measure and meet the hazards to health which inevitably result from the tests in the atmosphere . But to halt the spread of these terrible weapons , to halt the contamination of the air , to halt the spiraling nuclear arms race , we remain ready to seek new avenues of agreement , our new Disarmament Program thus includes the following proposals First , signing the test ban treaty by all nations . This can be done now . Test ban negotiations need not and should not await general disarmament . Second , stopping the production of fissionable materials for use in weapons , and preventing their transfer to any nation now lacking in nuclear weapons . Third , prohibiting the transfer of control over nuclear weapons to states that do not own them . Fourth , keeping nuclear weapons from seeding new battlegrounds in outer space . Fifth , gradually destroying existing nuclear weapons and converting their materials to peaceful uses and Finally , halting the unlimited testing and production of strategic nuclear delivery vehicles , and gradually destroying them as well . To destroy arms , however , is not enough . We must create even as we destroy creating worldwide law and law enforcement as we outlaw worldwide war and weapons . In the world we seek , the United Nations Emergency Forces which have been hastily assembled , uncertainly supplied , and inadequately financed , will never be enough . Therefore , the United States recommends the Presidents that all member nations earmark special peace keeping units in their armed forces to be on call of the United Nations , to be specially trained and quickly available , and with advance provision for financial and logistic support . In addition , the American delegation will suggest a series of steps to improve the United Nations machinery for the peaceful settlement of disputes for on the spot fact finding , mediation and adjudication for extending the rule of international law . For peace is not solely a matter of military or technical problems it is primarily a problem of politics and people . And unless man can match his strides in weaponry and technology with equal strides in social and political development , our great strength , like that of the dinosaur , will become incapable of proper control and like the dinosaur vanish from the earth . As we extend the rule of law on earth , so must we also extend it to man s new domain outer space . All of us salute the brave cosmonauts of the Soviet Union . The new horizons of outer space must not be driven by the old bitter concepts of imperialism and sovereign claims . The cold reaches of the universe must not become the new arena of an even colder war . To this end , we shall urge proposals extending the United Nations Charter to the limits of man s exploration in the universe , reserving outer space for peaceful use , prohibiting weapons of mass destruction in space or on celestial bodies , and opening the mysteries and benefits of space to every nation . We shall propose further cooperative efforts between all nations in weather prediction and eventually in weather control . We shall propose , finally , a global system of communications satellites linking the whole world in telegraph and telephone and radio and television . The day need not be fat away when such a system will televise the proceedings of this body to every corner of the world for the benefit of peace . But the mysteries of outer space must not divert our eyes or our energies from the harsh realities that face our fellow men . Political sovereignty is but a mockery without the means of meeting poverty and literacy and disease . Self determination is but a slogan if the future holds no hope . That is why my Nation , which has freely shared its capital and its technology to help others help themselves , now proposes officially designating this decade of the 1960 s as the United Nations Decade of Development . Under the framework of that Resolution , the United Nations existing efforts in promoting economic growth can be expanded and coordinated . Regional surveys and training institutes can now pool the talents of many . New research , technical assistance and pilot projects can unlock the wealth of less developed lands and untapped waters . And development can become a cooperative and not a competitive enterprise to enable all nations , however diverse in their systems and beliefs , to become in fact as well as in law free and equal nations . My Country favors a world of free and equal states . We agree with those who say that colonialism is a key issue in this Assembly But let the full facts of that issue be discussed in full . On the one hand is the fact that , since the close of World War Ia worldwide declaration of independence has transformed nearly 1 billion people and 9 million square miles into 42 free and independent states . Less than 2 percent of the world s population now lives in dependent territories . I do not ignore the remaining problems of traditional colonialism which still confront this body . Those problems will be solved , with patience , good will , and determination . Within the limits of our responsibility in such matters , my Country intends to be a participant and not merely an observer , in the peaceful , expeditious movement of nations from the status of colonies to the partnership of equals . That continuing tide of self determination , which runs so strong , has our sympathy and our support . But colonialism in its harshest forms is not only the exploitation of new nations by old , of dark skins by light , or the subjugation of the poor by the rich . My Nation was once a colony , and we know what colonialism means the exploitation and subjugation of the weak by the powerful , of the many by the few , of the governed who have given no consent to be governed , whatever their continent , their class , or their color . And that is why there is no ignoring the fact that the tide of self determination has not reached the Communist empire where a population far larger than that officially termed dependent lives under governments installed by foreign troops instead of free institutions under a system which knows only one party and one belief which suppresses free debate , and free elections , and free newspapers , and free books and free trade unions and which builds a wall to keep truth a stranger and its own citizens prisoners . Let us debate colonialism in full and apply the principle of free choice and the practice of free plebiscites in every corner of the globe . Finally , as President of the United States , I consider it my duty to report to this Assembly on two threats to the peace which are not on your crowded agenda , but which causes us , and most of you , the deepest concern . The first threat on which I wish to report is widely misunderstood the smoldering coals of war in Southeast Asia . South Viet Nam is already under attack sometimes by a single assassin , sometimes by a band of guerrillas , recently by full battalions . The peaceful borders of Burma , Cambodia , and India have been repeatedly violated . And the peaceful people of Laos are in danger of losing the independence they gained not so long ago . No one can call these wars of liberation . For these are free countries living under their own governments . Nor are these aggressions any less real because men are knifed in their homes and not shot in the fields of battle . The very simple question confronting the world community is whether measures can be devised to protect the small and the weak from such tactics . For if they are successful in Laos and South Viet Nam , the gates will be opened wide . The United States seeks for itself no base , no territory , no special position in this area of any kind . We support a truly neutral and independent Laos , its people free from outside interference , living at peace with themselves and with their neighbors , assured that their territory will not be used for attacks on others , and under a government comparable to Cambodia and Burma . But now the negotiations over Laos are reaching a crucial stage . The cease fire is at best precarious . The rainy season is coming to an end . Laotian territory is being used to infiltrate South Viet Nam . The world community must recognize and all those who are involved that this potent threat to Laotian peace and freedom is indivisible from all other threats to their own . Secondly , I wish to report to you on the crisis over Germany and Berlin . This is not the time or the place for immoderate tones , but the world community is entitled to know the very simple issues as we see them . If there is a crisis it is because an existing peace is under threat , because an existing island of free people is under pressure , because solemn agreements are being treated with indifference . Established international rights are being threatened with unilateral usurpation . Peaceful circulation has been interrupted by barbed wire and concrete blocks . One recalls the order of the Czar in Pushkin s Boris Godunov Take steps at this very hour that our frontiers be fenced in by barriers . . . . That not a single soul pass o er the border , that not a hare be able to run or a crow to fly . It is absurd to allege that we are threatening a war merely to prevent the Soviet Union and East Germany from signing a so called treaty of peace . The Western Allies are not concerned with any paper arrangement the Soviets may wish to make with a regime of their own creation , on territory occupied by their own troops and governed by their own agents . No such action can affect either our rights or our responsibilities . If there is a dangerous crisis in Berlin and there is it is because of threats against the vital interests and the deep commitments of the Western Powers , and the freedom of West Berlin . We cannot yield these interests . We cannot fail these commitments . We cannot surrender the freedom of these people for whom we are responsible . A peace treaty which carried with it the provisions which destroy the peace would be a fraud . A free city which was not genuinely free would suffocate freedom and would be an infamy . For a city or a people to be truly free , they must have the secure right , without economic , political or police pressure , to make their own choice and to live their own lives . And as I have said before , if anyone doubts the extent to which our presence is desired by the people of West Berlin , we are ready to have that question submitted to a free vote in all Berlin and , if possible , among all the German people . The elementary fact about this crisis is that it is unnecessary . The elementary tools for a peaceful settlement are to be found in the charter . Under its law , agreements are to be kept , unless changed by all those who made them . Established rights are to be respected . The political disposition of peoples should rest upon their own wishes , freely expressed in plebiscites or free elections . If there are legal problems , they can be solved by legal means . If there is a threat of force , it must be rejected . If there is desire for change , it must be a subject for negotiation and if there is negotiation , it must be rooted in mutual respect and concern for the rights of others . The Western Powers have calmly resolved to defend , by whatever means are forced upon them , their obligations and their access to the free citizens of West Berlin and the self determination of those citizens . This generation learned from bitter experience that either brandishing or yielding to threats can only lead to war . But firmness and reason can lead to the kind of peaceful solution in which my country profoundly believes . We are committed to no rigid formula . We see no perfect solution . We recognize that troops and tanks can , for a time , keep a nation divided against its will , however unwise that policy may seem to us . But we believe a peaceful agreement is possible which protects the freedom of West Berlin and allied presence and access , while recognizing the historic and legitimate interests of others in assuring European security . The possibilities of negotiation are now being explored it is too early to report what the prospects may be . For our part , we would be glad to report at the appropriate time that a solution has been found . For there is no need for a crisis over Berlin , threatening the peace and if those who created this crisis desire peace , there will be peace and freedom in Berlin . The events and decisions of the next ten months may well decide the fate of man for the next ten thousand years . There will be no avoiding those events . There will be no appeal from these decisions . And we in this hall shall be remembered either as part of the generation that turned this planet into a flaming funeral pyre or the generation that met its vow to save succeeding generations from the scourge of war . In the endeavor to meet that vow , I pledge you every effort this Nation possesses . I pledge you that we shall neither commit nor provoke aggression , that we shall neither flee nor invoke the threat of force , that we shall never negotiate out of fear , we shall never fear to negotiate . Terror is not a new weapon . Throughout history it has been used by those who could not prevail , either by persuasion or example . But inevitably they fail , either because men are not afraid to die for a life worth living , or because the terrorists themselves came to realize that free men cannot be frightened by threats , and that aggression would meet its own response . And it is in the light of that history that every nation today should know , be he friend or foe , that the United States has both the will and the weapons to join free men in standing up to their responsibilities . But I come here today to look across this world of threats to a world of peace . In that search we cannot expect any final triumph for new problems will always arise . We cannot expect that all nations will adopt like systems for conformity is the jailer of freedom , and the enemy of growth . Nor can we expect to reach our goal by contrivance , by fiat or even by the wishes of all . But however close we sometimes seem to that dark and final abyss , let no man of peace and freedom despair . For he does not stand alone . If we all can persevere , if we can in every land and office look beyond our own shores and ambitions , then surely the age will dawn in which the strong are just and the weak secure and the peace preserved . Ladies and gentlemen of this Assembly , the decision is ours . Never have the nations of the world had so much to lose , or so much to gain . Together we shall save our planet , or together we shall perish in its flames . Save it we can and save it we must and then shall we earn the eternal thanks of mankind and , as peacemakers , the eternal blessing of God .<speech_sep>McCloy , President Plimpton , MacLeish , distinguished guests , ladies and gentlemen I am very honored to be here with you on this occasion which means so much to this college and also means so much to art and the progress of the United States . This college is part of the United States . It belongs to it . So did Frost , in a large sense . And , therefore , I was privileged to accept the invitation somewhat rendered to me in the same way that Franklin Roosevelt rendered his invitation to MacLeish , the invitation which I received from McCloy . The powers of the Presidency are often described . Its limitations should occasionally be remembered . And therefore when the Chairman of our Disarmament Advisory Committee , who has labored so long and hard , Governor Stevenson s assistant during the very difficult days at the United Nations during the Cuban crisis , a public servant of so many years , asks or invites the President of the United States , there is only one response . So I am glad to be here . Amherst has had many soldiers of the king since its first one , and some of them are here today McCloy , who has long been a public servant Jim Reed , who is the Assistant Secretary of the Treasury President Cole , who is now our Ambassador to Chile Ramey , who is a Commissioner of the Atomic Energy Commission Dick Reuter , who is head of the Food for Peace . These and scores of others down through the years have recognized the obligations of the advantages which the graduation from a college such as this places upon them to serve not only their private interest but the public interest as well . Many years ago , Woodrow Wilson said , what good is a political party unless it is serving a great national purpose And what good is a private college or university unless it is serving a great national purpose The library being constructed today , this college , itself all of this , of course , was not done merely to give this school s graduates an advantage , an economic advantage , in the life struggle . It does do that . But in return for that , in return for the great opportunity which society gives the graduates of this and related schools , it seems to me incumbent upon this and other schools graduates to recognize their responsibility to the public interest . Privilege is here , and with privilege goes responsibility . And I think , as your president said , that it must be a source of satisfaction to you that this school s graduates have recognized it . I hope that the students who are here now will also recognize it in the future . Although Amherst has been in the forefront of extending aid to needy and talented students , private colleges , taken as a whole , draw 50 percent of their students from the wealthiest 10 percent of our Nation . And even State universities and other public institutions derive 25 percent of their students from this group . In March 1962 , persons of 18 years or older who had not completed high school made up 46 percent of the total labor force , and such persons comprised 64 percent of those who were unemployed . And in 1958 , the lowest fifth of the families in the United States had 41 2 percent of the total personal income , the highest fifth , 44 1 2 percent . There is inherited wealth in this country and also inherited poverty . And unless the graduates of this college and other colleges like it who are given a running start in life unless they are willing to put back into our society those talents , the broad sympathy , the understanding , the compassion unless they are willing to put those qualities back into the service of the Great Republic , then obviously the presuppositions upon which our democracy are based are bound to be fallible . The problems which this country now faces are staggering , both at home and abroad . We need the service , in the great sense , of every educated man or woman to find 10 million jobs in the next 21 2 years , to govern our relations a country which lived in isolation for 150 years , and is now suddenly the leader of the free world to govern our relations with over 100 countries , to govern those relations with success so that the balance of power remains strong on the side of freedom , to make it possible for Americans of all different races and creeds to live together in harmony , to make it possible for a world to exist in diversity and freedom . All this requires the best of all of us . Therefore , I am proud to come to this college whose graduates have recognized this obligation and to say to those who are now here that the need is endless , and I am confident that you will respond . Robert Frost said Two roads diverged in a wood , and I I took the one less traveled by , And that has made all the difference . I hope that road will not be the less traveled by , and I hope your commitment to the Great Republic s interest in the years to come will be worthy of your long inheritance since your beginning . This day devoted to the memory of Robert Frost offers an opportunity for reflection which is prized by politicians as well as by others , and even by poets , for Robert Frost was one of the granite figures of our time in America . He was supremely two things an artist and an American . A nation reveals itself not only by the men it produces but also by the men it honors , the men it remembers . In America , our heroes have customarily run to men of large accomplishments . But today this college and country honors a man whose contribution was not to our size but to our spirit , not to our political beliefs but to our insight , not to our self esteem , but to our self comprehension . In honoring Robert Frost , we therefore can pay honor to the deepest sources of our national strength . That strength takes many forms , and the most obvious forms are not always the most significant . The men who create power make an indispensable contribution to the Nation s greatness , but the men who question power make a contribution just as dispensable , especially when that questioning is disinterested , for they determine whether we use power or power uses us . Our national strength matters , but the spirit which informs and controls our strength matters just as much . This was the special significance of Robert Frost . He brought an unsparing instinct for reality to bear on the platitudes and pieties of society . His sense of the human tragedy fortified him against self deception and easy consolation . I have been , he wrote , one acquainted with the night . And because he knew the midnight as well as the high noon , because he understood the ordeal as well as the triumph of the human spirit , he gave his age strength with which to overcome despair . At bottom , he held a deep faith in the spirit of man , and it is hardly an accident that Robert Frost coupled poetry and power , for he saw poetry as the means of saving power from itself . When power leads man towards arrogance , poetry reminds him of his limitations . When power narrows the areas of man s concern , poetry reminds him of the richness and diversity of his existence . When power corrupts , poetry cleanses . For art establishes the basic human truth which must serve as the touchstone of our judgment . The artist , however faithful to his personal vision of reality , becomes the last champion of the individual mind and sensibility against an intrusive society and an officious state . The great artist is thus a solitary figure . He has , as Frost said , a lover s quarrel with the world . In pursuing his perceptions of reality , he must often sail against the currents of his time . This is not a popular role . If Robert Frost was much honored during his lifetime , it was because a good many preferred to ignore his darker truths . Yet in retrospect , we see how the artist s fidelity has strengthened the fibre of our national life . If sometimes our great artists have been the most critical of our society , it is because their sensitivity and their concern for justice , which must motivate any true artist , makes him aware that our Nation fails short of its highest potential . I see little of more importance to the future of our country and our civilization than full recognition of the place of the artist . If art is to nourish the roots of our culture , society must set the artist free to follow his vision wherever it takes him . We must never forget that art is not a form of propaganda it is a form of truth . And as MacLeish once remarked of poets , there is nothing worse for our trade than to be in style . In free society art is not a weapon and it does not belong to the sphere of polemics and ideology . Artists are not engineers of the soul . It may be different elsewhere . But democratic society in it , the highest duty of the writer , the composer , the artist is to remain true to himself and to let the chips fall where they may . In serving his vision of the truth , the artist best serves his nation . And the nation which disdains the mission of art invites the fate of Robert Frost s hired man , the fate of having nothing to look backward to with pride , and nothing to look forward to with hope . I look forward to a great future for America , a future in which our country will match its military strength with our moral restraint , its wealth with our wisdom , its power with our purpose . I look forward to an America which will not be afraid of grace and beauty , which will protect the beauty of our natural environment , which will preserve the great old American houses and squares and parks of our national past , and which will build handsome and balanced cities for our future . I look forward to an America which will reward achievement in the arts as we reward achievement in business or statecraft . I look forward to an America which will steadily raise the standards of artistic accomplishment and which will steadily enlarge cultural opportunities for all of our citizens . And I look forward to an America which commands respect throughout the world not only for its strength but for its civilization as well . And I look forward to a world which will be safe not only for democracy and diversity but also for personal distinction . Robert Frost was often skeptical about projects for human improvement , yet I do not think he would disdain this hope . As he wrote during the uncertain days of the Second War Take human nature altogether since time began . . . And it must be a little more in favor of man , Say a fraction of one percent at the very least . . . Our hold on the planet would not have so increased . Because of Frost s life and work , because of the life and work of this college , our hold on this planet has increased .<speech_sep>Admiral , Secretary , members of the Joint Chiefs of Staff , members of the faculty , members of the Graduating Class and their families I am proud as a citizen of the United States to come to this institution and this room where there is concentrated so many men who have committed themselves to the defense of the United States . I am honored to be here . In the past I have had some slight contact with this Service , though I never did reach the state of professional and physical perfection where I could hope that anyone would ever mistake me for an Annapolis graduate . I know that you are constantly warned during your days here not to mix , in your Naval career , in politics . I should point out , however , on the other side , that my rather rapid rise from a Reserve Lieutenant , of uncertain standing , to Commander in Chief , has been because I did not follow that very good advice . I trust , however , that those of you who are Regulars will , for a moment , grant a retired civilian officer some measure of fellowship . Nearly a half century ago , President Woodrow Wilson came here to Annapolis on a similar mission , and addressed the Class of 1914 . On that day , the graduating class numbered 154 men . There has been , since that time , a revolution in the size of our military establishment , and that revolution has been reflected in the revolution in the world around us . When Wilson addressed the class in 1914 , the Victorian structure of power was still intact , the world was dominated by Europe , and Europe itself was the scene of an uneasy balance of power between dominant figures and America was a spectator on a remote sideline . The autumn after Wilson came to Annapolis , the Victorian world began to fall to pieces , and our world one half a century later is vastly different . Today we are witnesses to the most extraordinary revolution , nearly , in the history of the world , as the emergent nations of Latin America , Africa , and Asia awaken from long centuries of torpor and impatience . Today the Victorian certitude s which were taken to be so much a part of man s natural existence are under siege by a faith committed to the destruction of liberal civilization , and today the United States is no longer the spectator , but the leader . This half century , therefore , has not only revolutionized the size of our military establishment , it has brought about also a more striking revolution in the things that the Nation expects from the men in our Service . Fifty years ago the graduates of the Naval Academy were expected to be seamen and leaders of men . They were reminded of the saying of John Paul Jones , Give me a fair ship so that I might go into harm s way . When Captain Mahan began to write in the nineties on the general issues of war and peace and naval strategy , the Navy quickly shipped him to sea duty . Today we expect all of you in fact , you must , of necessity be prepared not only to handle a ship in a storm or a landing party on a beach , but to make great determinations which affect the survival of this country . The revolution in the technology of war makes it necessary in order that you , when you hold positions of command , may make an educated judgment between various techniques , that you also be a scientist and an engineer and a physicist , and your responsibilities go far beyond the classic problems of tactics and strategy . In the years to come , some of you will serve as your Commandant did last year , as an adviser to foreign governments some will negotiate as Admiral Burke did , in Korea , with other governments on behalf of the United States some will go to the far reaches of space and some will go to the bottom of the ocean . Many of you from one time or another , in the positions of command , or as members of staff , will participate in great decisions which go far beyond the narrow reaches of professional competence . You gentlemen , therefore , have a most important responsibility , to recognize that your education is just beginning , and to be prepared , in the most difficult period in the life of our country , to play the role that the country hopes and needs and expects from you . You must understand not only this country but other countries . You must know something about strategy and tactics and logic logistics , but also economics and politics and diplomacy and history . You must know everything you can know about military power , and you must also understand the limits of military power . You must understand that few of the important problems of our time have , in the final analysis , been finally solved by military power alone . When I say that officers today must go far beyond the official curriculum , I say it not because I do not believe in the traditional relationship between the civilian and the military , but you must be more than the servants of national policy . You must be prepared to play a constructive role in the development of national policy , a policy which protects our interests and our security and the peace of the world . Woodrow Wilson reminded your predecessors that you were not serving a government or an administration , but a people . In serving the American people , you represent the American people and the best of the ideals of this free society . Your posture and your performance will provide many people far beyond our shores , who know very little of our country , the only evidence they will ever see as to whether America is truly dedicated to the cause of justice and freedom . In my inaugural address , I said that each citizen should be concerned not with what his country can do for him , but what he can do for his country . What you have chosen to do for your country , by devoting your life to the service of our country , is the greatest contribution that any man could make . It is easy for you , in a moment of exhilaration today , to say that you freely and gladly dedicate your life to the United States . But the life of service is a constant test of your will . It will be hard at times to face the personal sacrifice and the family inconvenience , to maintain this high resolve , to place the needs of your country above all else . When there is a visible enemy to fight , the tide of patriotism in this country runs strong . But when there is a long , slow struggle , with no immediate visible foe , when you watch your contemporaries indulging the urge for material gain and comfort and personal advancement , your choice will seem hard , and you will recall , I am sure , the lines found in an old sentry box at Gibraltar , God and the soldier all men adore in time of trouble and no more , for when war is over , and all things righted , God is neglected and the old soldier slighted . Never forget , however , that the battle for freedom takes many forms . Those who through vigilance and firmness and devotion are the great servants of this country and let us have no doubt that the United States needs your devoted assistance today . The answer to those who challenge us so severely in so many parts of the globe lies in our willingness to freely commit ourselves to the maintenance of our country and the things for which it stands . This ceremony today represents the kind of commitment which you are willing to make . For that reason , I am proud to be here . This nation salutes you as you commence your service to our country in the hazardous days ahead . And on behalf of all of them , I congratulate you and thank you .<speech_sep>Vice President , Speaker , Members of the 88th Congress I congratulate you all not merely on your electoral victory but on your selected role in history . For you and I are privileged to serve the great Republic in what could be the most decisive decade in its long history . The choices we make , for good or ill , may well shape the state of the Union for generations yet to come . Little more than 100 weeks ago I assumed the office of President of the United States . In seeking the help of the Congress and our countrymen , I pledged no easy answers . I pledged and asked only toil and dedication . These the Congress and the people have given in good measure . And today , having witnessed in recent months a heightened respect for our national purpose and power having seen the courageous calm of a united people in a perilous hour and having observed a steady improvement in the opportunities and well being of our citizens I can report to you that the state of this old but youthful Union , in the 175th year of its life , is good . In the world beyond our borders , steady progress has been made in building a world of order . The people of West Berlin remain both free and secure . A settlement , though still precarious , has been reached in Laos . The spearpoint of aggression has been blunted in Viet Nam . The end of agony may be in sight in the Congo . The doctrine of troika is dead . And , while danger continues , a deadly threat has been removed in Cuba . At home , the recession is behind us . Well over a million more men and women are working today than were working 2 years ago . The average factory workweek is once again more than 40 hours our industries are turning out more goods than ever before and more than half of the manufacturing capacity that lay silent and wasted 100 weeks ago is humming with activity . In short , both at home and abroad , there may now be a temptation to relax . For the road has been long , the burden heavy , and the pace consistently urgent . But we cannot be satisfied to rest here . This is the side of the hill , not the top . The mere absence of war is not peace . The mere absence of recession is not growth . We have made a beginning but we have only begun . Now the time has come to make the most of our gains to translate the renewal of our national strength into the achievement of our national purpose . America has enjoyed 22 months of uninterrupted economic recovery . But recovery is not enough . If we are to prevail in the long run , we must expand the long run strength of our economy . We must move along the path to a higher rate of growth and full employment . For this would mean tens of billions of dollars more each year in production , profits , wages , and public revenues . It would mean an end to the persistent slack which has kept our unemployment at or above 5 percent for 61 out of the past 62 months and an end to the growing pressures for such restrictive measures as the 35 hour week , which alone could increase hourly labor costs by as much as 14 percent , start a new wage price spiral of inflation , and undercut our efforts to compete with other nations . To achieve these greater gains , one step , above all , is essential the enactment this year of a substantial reduction and revision in Federal income taxes . For it is increasingly clear to those in Government , business , and labor who are responsible for our economy s success that our obsolete tax system exerts too heavy a drag on private purchasing power , profits , and employment . Designed to check inflation in earlier years , it now checks growth instead . It discourages extra effort and risk . It distorts the use of resources . It invites recurrent recessions , depresses our Federal revenues , and causes chronic budget deficits . Now , when the inflationary pressures of the war and the post war years no longer threaten , and the dollar commands new respect now , when no military crisis strains our resources now is the time to act . We cannot afford to be timid or slow . For this is the most urgent task confronting the Congress in 1963 . In an early message , I shall propose a permanent reduction in tax rates which will lower liabilities by 13 . 5 billion . Of this , 11 billion results from reducing individual tax rates , which now range between 20 and 91 percent , to a more sensible range of 14 to 65 percent , with a split in the present first bracket . Two and one half billion dollars results from reducing corporate tax rates , from 52 percent which gives the Government today a majority interest in profits to the permanent pre Korean level of 47 percent . This is in addition to the more than 2 billion cut in corporate tax liabilities resulting from last year s investment credit and depreciation reform . To achieve this reduction within the limits of a manageable budgetary deficit , I urge first , that these cuts be phased over 3 calendar years , beginning in 1963 with a cut of some 6 billion at annual rates second , that these reductions be coupled with selected structural changes , beginning in 1964 , which will broaden the tax base , end unfair or unnecessary preferences , remove or lighten certain hardships , and in the net offset some 3 . 5 billion of the revenue loss and third , that budgetary receipts at the outset be increased by 1 . 5 billion a year , without any change in tax liabilities , by gradually shifting the tax payments of large corporations to a . more current time schedule . This combined program , by increasing the amount of our national income , will in time result in still higher Federal revenues . It is a fiscally responsible program the surest and the soundest way of achieving in time a balanced budget in a balanced full employment economy . This net reduction in tax liabilities of 10 billion will increase the purchasing power of American families and business enterprises in every tax bracket , with greatest increase going to our low income consumers . It will , in addition , encourage the initiative and risk taking on which our free system depends induce more investment , production , and capacity use help provide the 2 million new jobs we need every year and reinforce the American principle of additional reward for additional effort . I do not say that a measure for tax reduction and reform is the only way to achieve these goals . No doubt a massive increase in Federal spending could also create jobs and growth but , in today s setting , private consumers , employers , and investors should be given a full opportunity first . No doubt a temporary tax cut could provide a spur to our economy but a long run problem compels a long run solution . No doubt a reduction in either individual or corporation taxes alone would be of great help but corporations need customers and job seekers need jobs . No doubt tax reduction without reform would sound simpler and more attractive to many but our growth is also hampered by a host of tax inequities and special preferences which have distorted the flow of investment . And , finally , there are no doubt some who would prefer to put off a tax cut in the hope that ultimately an end to the cold war would make possible an equivalent cut in expenditures but that end is not in view and to wait for it would be costly and self defeating . In submitting a tax program which will , of course , temporarily increase the deficit but can ultimately end it and in recognition of the need to control expenditures I will shortly submit a fiscal 1964 administrative budget which , while allowing for needed rises in defense , space , and fixed interest charges , holds total expenditures for all other purposes below this year s level . This requires the reduction or postponement of many desirable programs , the absorption of a large part of last year s Federal pay raise through personnel and other economies , the termination of certain installations and projects , and the substitution in several programs of private for public credit . But I am convinced that the enactment this year of tax reduction and tax reform overshadows all other domestic problems in this Congress . For we cannot for long lead the cause of peace and freedom , if we ever cease to set the pace here at home . Tax reduction alone , however , is not enough to strengthen our society , to provide opportunities for the four million Americans who are born every year , to improve the lives of 32 million Americans who live on the outskirts of poverty . The quality of American life must keep pace with the quantity of American goods . This country cannot afford to be materially rich and spiritually poor . Therefore , by holding down the budgetary cost of existing programs to keep within the limitations I have set , it is both possible and imperative to adopt other new measures that we cannot afford to postpone . These measures are based on a series of fundamental premises , grouped under four related headings First , we need to strengthen our Nation by investing in our youth The future of any country which is dependent upon the will and wisdom of its citizens is damaged , and irreparably damaged , whenever any of its children is not educated to the full extent of his talent , from grade school through graduate school . Today , an estimated 4 out of every 10 students in the 5th grade will not even finish high school and that is a waste we cannot afford . In addition , there is no reason why one million young Americans , out of school and out of work , should all remain unwanted and often untrained on our city streets when their energies can be put to good use . Finally , the overseas success of our Peace Corps volunteers , most of them young men and women carrying skills and ideas to needy people , suggests the merit of a similar corps serving our own community needs in mental hospitals , on Indian reservations , in centers for the aged or for young delinquents , in schools for the illiterate or the handicapped . As the idealism of our youth has served world peace , so can it serve the domestic tranquility . Second , we need to strengthen our Nation by safeguarding its health Our working men and women , instead of being forced to beg for help from public charity once they are old and ill , should start contributing now to their own retirement health program through the Social Security System . Moreover , all our miracles of medical research will count for little if we cannot reverse the growing nationwide shortage of doctors , dentists , and nurses , and the widespread shortages of nursing homes and modern urban hospital facilities . Merely to keep the present ratio of doctors and dentists from declining any further , we must over the next 10 years increase the capacity of our medical schools by 50 percent and our dental schools by 100 percent . Finally , and of deep concern , I believe that the abandonment of the mentally ill and the mentally retarded to the grim mercy of custodial institutions too often inflicts on them and on their families a needless cruelty which this Nation should not endure . The incidence of mental retardation in this country is three times as high as that of Sweden , for example and that figure can and must be reduced . Third , we need to strengthen our Nation by protecting the basic rights of its citizens The right to competent counsel must be assured to every man accused of crime in Federal court , regardless of his means . And the most precious and powerful right in the world , the right to vote in a free American election , must not be denied to any citizen on grounds of his race or color . I wish that all qualified Americans permitted to vote were willing to vote , but surely in this centennial year of Emancipation all those who are willing to vote should always be permitted . Fourth , we need to strengthen our Nation by making the best and the most economical use of its resources and facilities Our economic health depends on healthy transportation arteries and I believe the way to a more modern , economical choice of national transportation service is through increased competition and decreased regulation . Local mass transit , faring even worse , is as essential a community service as hospitals and highways . Nearly three fourths of our citizens live in urban areas , which occupy only 2 percent of our land and if local transit is to survive and relieve the congestion of these cities , it needs Federal stimulation and assistance . Next , this Government is in the storage and stockpile business to the melancholy tune of more than 16 billion . We must continue to support farm income , but we should not pile more farm surpluses on top of the 7 . 5 billion we already own . We must maintain a stockpile of strategic materials , but the 8 . 5 billion we have acquired for reasons both good and bad is much more than we need and we should be empowered to dispose of the excess in ways which will not cause market disruption . Finally , our already overcrowded national parks and recreation areas will have twice as many visitors 10 years from now as they do today . If we do not plan today for the future growth of these and other great natural assets not only parks and forests but wildlife and wilderness preserves , and water projects of all kinds our children and their children will be poorer in every sense of the word . These are not domestic concerns alone . For upon our achievement of greater vitality and strength here at home hang our fate and future in the world our ability to sustain and supply the security of free men and nations , our ability to command their respect for our leadership , our ability to expand our trade without threat to our balance of payments , and our ability to adjust to the changing demands of cold war competition and challenge . We shall be judged more by what we do at home than by what we preach abroad . Nothing we could do to help the developing countries would help them half as much as a booming economy . And nothing our opponents could do to encourage their own ambitions would encourage them half as much as a chronic lagging economy . These domestic tasks do not divert energy from our security they provide the very foundation for freedom s survival and success , Turning to the world outside , it was only a few years ago in Southeast Asia , Africa , Eastern Europe , Latin America , even outer space that communism sought to convey the image of a unified , confident , and expanding empire , closing in on a sluggish America and a free world in disarray . But few people would hold to that picture today . In these past months we have reaffirmed the scientific and military superiority of freedom . We have doubled our efforts in space , to assure us of being first in the future . We have undertaken the most far reaching defense improvements in the peacetime history of this country . And we have maintained the frontiers of freedom from Viet Nam to West Berlin . But complacency or self congratulation can imperil our security as much as the weapons of tyranny . A moment of pause is not a promise of peace . Dangerous problems remain from Cuba to the South China Sea . The world s prognosis prescribes , in short , not a year s vacation for us , but a year of obligation and opportunity . Four special avenues of opportunity stand out the Atlantic Alliance , the developing nations , the new Sino Soviet difficulties , and the search for worldwide peace . First , how fares the grand alliance Free Europe is entering into a new phase of its long and brilliant history . The era of colonial expansion has passed the era of national rivalries is fading and a new era of interdependence and unity is taking shape . Defying the old prophecies of Marx , consenting to what no conqueror could ever compel , the free nations of Europe are moving toward a unity of purpose and power and policy in every sphere of activity . For 17 years this movement has had our consistent support , both political and economic . Far from resenting the new Europe , we regard her as a welcome partner , not a rival . For the road to world peace and freedom is still long , and there are burdens which only full partners can share in supporting the common defense , in expanding world trade , in aligning our balance of payments , in aiding the emergent nations , in concerting political and economic policies , and in welcoming to our common effort other industrialized nations , notably Japan , whose remarkable economic and political development of the 1950 s permits it now to play on the world scene a major constructive role . No doubt differences of opinion will continue to get more attention than agreements on action , as Europe moves from independence to more formal interdependence . But these are honest differences among honorable associates more real and frequent , in fact , among our Western European allies than between them and the United States . For the unity of freedom has never relied on uniformity of opinion . But the basic agreement of this alliance on fundamental issues continues . The first task of the alliance remains the common defense . Last month Prime Minister Macmillan and I laid plans for a new stage in our long cooperative effort , one which aims to assist in the wider task of framing a common nuclear defense for the whole alliance . The Nassau agreement recognizes that the security of the West is indivisible , and so must be our defense . But it also recognizes that this is an alliance of proud and sovereign nations , and works best when we do not forget it . It recognizes further that the nuclear defense of the West is not a matter for the present nuclear powers alone that France will be such a power in the future and that ways must be found without increasing the hazards of nuclear diffusion , to increase the role of our other partners in planning , manning , and directing a truly multilateral nuclear force within an increasingly intimate NATO alliance . Finally , the Nassau agreement recognizes that nuclear defense is not enough , that the agreed NATO levels of conventional strength must be met , and that the alliance cannot afford to be in a position of having to answer every threat with nuclear weapons or nothing . We remain too near the Nassau decisions , and too far from their full realization , to know their place in history . But I believe that , for the first time , the door is open for the nuclear defense of the alliance to become a source of confidence , instead of a cause of contention . The next most pressing concern of the alliance is our common economic goals of trade and growth . This Nation continues to be concerned about its balance of payments deficit , which , despite its decline , remains a stubborn and troublesome problem . We believe , moreover , that closer economic ties among all free nations are essential to prosperity and peace . And neither we nor the members of the European Common Market are so affluent that we can long afford to shelter high cost farms or factories from the winds of foreign competition , or to restrict the channels of trade with other nations of the free world . If the Common Market should move toward protectionism and restrictionism , it would undermine its , own basic principles . This Government means to use the authority conferred on it last year by the Congress to encourage trade expansion on both sides of the Atlantic and around the world . Second , what of the developing and nonaligned nations They were shocked by the Soviets sudden and secret attempt to transform Cuba into a nuclear striking base and by Communist China s arrogant invasion of India . They have been reassured by our prompt assistance to India , by our support through the United Nations of the Congo s unification , by our patient search for disarmament , and by the improvement in our treatment of citizens and visitors whose skins do not happen to be white . And as the older colonialism recedes , and the neocolonialism of the Communist powers stands out more starkly than ever , they realize more clearly that the issue in the world struggle is not communism versus capitalism , but coercion versus free choice . They are beginning to realize that the longing for independence is the same the world over , whether it is the independence of West Berlin or Viet Nam . They are beginning to realize that such independence runs athwart all Communist ambitions but is in keeping with our own and that our approach to their diverse needs is resilient and resourceful , while the Communists are still relying on ancient doctrines and dogmas . Nevertheless it is hard for any nation to focus on an external or subversive threat to its independence when its energies are drained in daily combat with the forces of poverty and despair . It makes little sense for us to assail , in speeches and resolutions , the horrors of communism , to spend 50 billion a year to prevent its military advance and then to begrudge spending , largely on American products , less than one tenth of that amount to help other nations strengthen their independence and cure the social chaos in which communism always has thrived . I am proud and I think most Americans are proud of a mutual defense and assistance program , evolved with bipartisan support in three administrations , which has , with all its recognized problems , contributed to the fact that not a single one of the nearly fifty members to gain independence since the Second World War has succumbed to Communist control . I am proud of a program that has helped to arm and feed and clothe millions of people who live on the front lines of freedom . I am especially proud that this country has put forward for the 60 s a vast cooperative effort to achieve economic growth and social progress throughout the Americas the Alliance for Progress . I do not underestimate the difficulties that we face in this mutual effort among our close neighbors , but the free states of this hemisphere , working in close collaboration , have begun to make this alliance a living reality . Today it is feeding one out of every four school age children in Latin America an extra food ration from our farm surplus . It has distributed 1 . 5 million school books and is building 17 , 000 classrooms . It has helped resettle tens of thousands of farm families on land they can call their own . It is stimulating our good neighbors to more self help and self reform fiscal , social , institutional , and land reforms . It is bringing new housing and hope , new health and dignity , to millions who were forgotten . The men and women of this hemisphere know that the alliance cannot Succeed if it is only another name for United States handouts that it can succeed only as the Latin American nations themselves devote their best effort to fulfilling its goals . This story is the same in Africa , in the Middle East , and in Asia . Wherever nations are willing to help themselves , we stand ready to help them build new bulwarks of freedom . We are not purchasing votes for the cold war we have gone to the aid of imperiled nations , neutrals and allies alike . What we do ask and all that we ask is that our help be used to best advantage , and that their own efforts not be diverted by needless quarrels with other independent nations . Despite all its past achievements , the continued progress of the mutual assistance program requires a persistent discontent with present performance . We have been reorganizing this program to make it a more effective , efficient instrument and that process will continue this year . But free world development will still be an uphill struggle . Government aid can only supplement the role of private investment , trade expansion , commodity stabilization , and , above all , internal self improvement . The processes of growth are gradual bearing fruit in a decade , not a day . Our successes will be neither quick nor dramatic . But if these programs were ever to be ended , our failures in a dozen countries would be sudden and certain . Neither money nor technical assistance , however , can be our only weapon against poverty . In the end , the crucial effort is one of purpose , requiring the fuel of finance but also a torch of idealism . And nothing carries the spirit of this American idealism more effectively to the far corners of the earth than the American Peace Corps . A year ago , less than 900 Peace Corps volunteers were on the job . A year from now they will number more than 9 , 000 men and women , aged 18 to 79 , willing to give 2 years of their lives to helping people in other lands . There are , in fact , nearly a million Americans serving their country and the cause of freedom in overseas posts , a record no other people can match . Surely those of us who stay at home should be glad to help indirectly by supporting our aid programs . by opening our doors to foreign visitors and diplomats and students and by proving , day by day , by deed as well as word , that we are a just and generous people . Third , what comfort can we take from the increasing strains and tensions within the Communist bloc Here hope must be tempered with caution . For the Soviet Chinese disagreement is over means , not ends . A dispute over how best to bury the free world is no grounds for Western rejoicing . Nevertheless , while a strain is not a fracture , it is clear that the forces of diversity are at work inside the Communist camp , despite all the iron disciplines of regimentation and all the iron dogmatism s of ideology . Marx is proven wrong once again for it is the closed Communist societies , not the free and open societies which carry within themselves the seeds of internal disintegration . The disarray of the Communist empire has been heightened by two other formidable forces . One is the historical force of nationalism and the yearning of all men to be free . The other is the gross inefficiency of their economies . For a closed society is not open to ideas of progress and a police state finds that it cannot command the grain to grow . New nations asked to choose between two competing systems need only compare conditions in East and West Germany , Eastern and Western Europe , North and South Viet Nam . They need only compare the disillusionment of Communist Cuba with the promise of the Alliance for Progress . And all the world knows that no successful system builds a wall to keep its people in and freedom out and the wall of shame dividing Berlin is a symbol of Communist failure . Finally , what can we do to move from the present pause toward enduring peace Again I would counsel caution . I foresee no spectacular reversal in Communist methods or goals . But if all these trends and developments can persuade the Soviet Union to walk the path of peace , then let her know that all free nations will journey with her . But until that choice is made , and until the world can develop a reliable system of international security , the free peoples have no choice but to keep their arms nearby . This country , therefore , continues to require the best defense in the world a defense which is suited to the sixties . This means , unfortunately , a rising defense budget for there is no substitute for adequate defense , and no bargain basement way of achieving it . It means the expenditure of more than 15 billion this year on nuclear weapons systems alone , a sum which is about equal to the combined defense budgets of our European Allies . But it also means improved air and missile defenses , improved civil defense , a strengthened anti guerrilla capacity and , of prime importance , more powerful and flexible nonnuclear forces . For threats of massive retaliation may not deter piecemeal aggression and a line of destroyers in a quarantine , or a division of well equipped men on a border , may be more useful to our real security than the multiplication of awesome weapons beyond all rational need . But our commitment to national safety is not a commitment to expand our military establishment indefinitely . We do not dismiss disarmament as merely an idle dream . For we believe that , in the end , it is the only way to assure the security of all without impairing the interests of any . Nor do we mistake honorable negotiation for appeasement . While we shall never weary in the defense of freedom , neither shall we ever abandon the pursuit of peace . In this quest , the United Nations requires our full and continued support . Its value in serving the cause of peace has been shown anew in its role in the West New Guinea settlement , in its use as a forum for the Cuban crisis , and in its task of unification in the Congo . Today the United Nations is primarily the protector of the small and the weak , and a safety valve for the strong . Tomorrow it can form the framework for a world of law a world in which no nation dictates the destiny of another , and in which the vast resources now devoted to destructive means will serve constructive ends . In short , let our adversaries choose . If they choose peaceful competition , they shall have it . If they come to realize that their ambitions cannot succeed if they see their wars of liberation and subversion will ultimately fail if they recognize that there is more security in accepting inspection than in permitting new nations to master the black arts of nuclear war and if they are willing to turn their energies , as we are , to the great unfinished tasks of our own peoples then , surely , the areas of agreement can be very wide indeed a clear understanding about Berlin , stability in Southeast Asia , an end to nuclear testing , new checks on surprise or accidental attack , and , ultimately , general and complete disarmament . For we seek not the worldwide victory of one nation or system but a worldwide victory of man . The modern globe is too small , its weapons are too destructive , and its disorders are too contagious to permit any other kind of victory . To achieve this end , the United States will continue to spend a greater portion of its national production than any other people in the free world . For 15 years no other free nation has demanded so much of itself . Through hot wars and cold , through recession and prosperity , through the ages of the atom and outer space , the American people have never faltered and their faith has never flagged . If at times our actions seem to make life difficult for others , it is only because history has made life difficult for us all . But difficult days need not be dark . I think these are proud and memorable days in the cause of peace and freedom . We are proud , for example , of Major Rudolf Anderson who gave his life over the island of Cuba . We salute Specialist James Allen Johnson who died on the border of South Korea . We pay honor to Sergeant Gerald Pendell who was killed in Viet Nam . They are among the many who in this century , far from home , have died for our country . Our task now , and the task of all Americans is to live up to their commitment . My friends I close on a note of hope . We are not lulled by the momentary calm of the sea or the somewhat clearer skies above . We know the turbulence that lies below , and the storms that are beyond the horizon this year . But now the winds of change appear to be blowing more strongly than ever , in the world of communism as well as our own . For 175 years we have sailed with those winds at our back , and with the tides of human freedom in our favor . We steer our ship with hope , as Thomas Jefferson said , leaving Fear astern . Today we still welcome those winds of change and we have every reason to believe that our tide is running strong . With thanks to Almighty God for seeing us through a perilous passage , we ask His help anew in guiding the Good Ship Union .<speech_sep>Vice President , my old colleague from Massachusetts and your new Speaker , John McCormack , Members of the 87th Congress , ladies and gentlemen This week we begin anew our joint and separate efforts to build the American future . But , sadly , we build without a man who linked a long past with the present and looked strongly to the future . Mister Sam Rayburn is gone . Neither this House nor the Nation is the same without him . Members of the Congress , the Constitution makes us not rivals for power but partners for progress . We are all trustees for the American people , custodians of the American heritage . It is my task to report the State of the Union to improve it is the task of us all . In the past year , I have traveled not only across our own land but to other lands to the North and the South , and across the seas . And I have found as I am sure you have , in your travels that people everywhere , in spite of occasional disappointments , look to us not to our wealth or power , but to the splendor of our ideals . For our Nation is commissioned by history to be either an observer of freedom s failure or the cause of its success . Our overriding obligation in the months ahead is to fulfill the world s hopes by fulfilling our own faith . That task must begin at home . For if we cannot fulfill our own ideals here , we cannot expect others to accept them . And when the youngest child alive today has grown to the cares of manhood , our position in the world will be determined first of all by what provisions we make today for his education , his health , and his opportunities for a good home and a good job and a good life . At home , we began the year in the valley of recession we completed it on the high road of recovery and growth . With the help of new congressionally approved or administratively increased stimulants to our economy , the number of major surplus labor u areas has declined from 101 to 60 nonagricultural employment has increased by more than a million jobs and the average factory work week has risen to well over 40 hours . At year s end the economy which Khrushchev once called a stumbling horse was racing to new records in consumer spending , labor income , and industrial production . We are gratified but we are not satisfied . Too many unemployed are still looking for the blessings of prosperity As those who leave our schools and farms demand new jobs , automation takes old jobs away . To expand our growth and job opportunities , I urge on the Congress three measures First , the Manpower Training and Development Act , to stop the waste of able bodied men and women who want to work , but whose only skill has been replaced by a machine , or moved with a mill , or shut down with a mine Second , the Youth Employment Opportunities Act , to help train and place not only the one million young Americans who are both out of school and out of work , but the twenty six million young Americans entering the labor market in this decade andThird , the 8 percent tax credit for investment in machinery and equipment , which , combined with planned revisions of depreciation allowances , will spur our modernization , our growth , and our ability to compete abroad . Moreover pleasant as it may be to bask in the warmth of recovery let us not forget that we have suffered three recessions in the last 7 years . The time to repair the roof is when the sun is shining by filling three basic gaps in our anti recession protection . We need First , presidential standby authority , subject to congressional veto , to adjust personal income tax rates downward within a specified range and time , to slow down an economic decline before it has dragged us all down Second , presidential standby authority , upon a given rise in the rate of unemployment , to accelerate Federal and federally aided capital improvement programs andThird , a permanent strengthening of our unemployment compensation system to maintain for our fellow citizens searching for a job who cannot find it , their purchasing power and their living standards without constant resort as we have seen in recent years by the Congress and the administrations to temporary supplements . If we enact this six part program , we can show the whole world that a free economy need not be an unstable economy that a free system need not leave men unemployed and that a free society is not only the most productive but the most stable form of organization yet fashioned by man . But recession is only one enemy of a free economy inflation is another . Last year , 1961 , despite rising production and demand , consumer prices held almost steady and wholesale prices declined . This is the best record of overall price stability of any comparable period of recovery since the end of World War IInflation too often follows in the shadow of growth while price stability is made easy by stagnation or controls . But we mean to maintain both stability and growth in a climate of freedom . Our first line of defense against inflation is the good sense and public spirit of business and labor keeping their total increases in wages and profits in step with productivity . There is no single statistical test to guide each company and each union . But I strongly urge them for their country s interest , and for their own to apply the test of the public interest to these transactions . Within this same framework of growth and wage price stability This administration has helped keep our economy competitive by widening the access of small business to credit and Government contracts , and by stepping up the drive against monopoly , price fixing , and racketeering We will submit a Federal Pay Reform bill aimed at giving our classified , postal , and other employees new pay scales more comparable to those of private industry We are holding the fiscal 1962 budget deficit far below the level incurred after the last recession in 1958 and , finally , I am submitting for fiscal 1963 a balanced Federal Budget . This is a joint responsibility , requiring Congressional cooperation on appropriations , and on three sources of income in particular First , an increase in postal rates , to end the postal deficit Secondly , passage of the tax reforms previously urged , to remove unwarranted tax preferences , and to apply to dividends and to interest the same withholding requirements we have long applied to wages andThird , extension of the present excise and corporation tax rates , except for those changes which will be recommended in a message affecting transportation . But a stronger nation and economy require more than a balanced Budget . They require progress in those programs that spur our growth and fortify our strength . A strong America depends on its cities America s glory , and sometimes America s shame . To substitute sunlight for congestion and progress for decay , we have stepped up existing urban renewal and housing programs , and launched new ones redoubled the attack on water pollution speeded aid to airports , hospitals , highways , and our declining mass transit systems and secured new weapons to combat organized crime , racketeering , and youth delinquency , assisted by the coordinated and hard hitting efforts of our investigative services the FBthe Internal Revenue , the Bureau of Narcotics , and many others . We shall need further anti crime , mass transit , and transportation legislation and new tools to fight air pollution . And with all this effort under way , both equity and commonsense require that our nation s urban areas containing three fourths of our population sit as equals at the Cabinet table . I urge a new Department of Urban Affairs and Housing . A strong America also depends on its farms and natural resources . American farmers took heart in 1961 from a billion dollar rise in farm income and from a hopeful start on reducing the farm surpluses . But we are still operating under a patchwork accumulation of old laws , which cost us 1 billion a year in CCC carrying charges alone , yet fail to halt rural poverty or boost farm earnings . Our task is to master and turn to fully fruitful ends the magnificent productivity of our farms and farmers . The revolution on our own countryside stands in the sharpest contrast to the repeated farm failures of the Communist nations and is a source of pride to us all . Since 1950 our agricultural output per man hour has actually doubled Without new , realistic measures , it will someday swamp our farmers and our taxpayers in a national scandal or a farm depression . I will , therefore , submit to the Congress a new comprehensive farm program tailored to fit the use of our land and the supplies of each crop to the long range needs of the sixties and designed to prevent chaos in the sixties with a program of commonsense . We also need for the sixties if we are to bequeath our full national estate to our heirs a new long range conservation and recreation program expansion of our superb national parks and forests preservation of our authentic wilderness areas new starts on water and power projects as our population steadily increases and expanded REA generation and transmission loans . But America stands for progress in human rights as well as economic affairs , and a strong America requires the assurance of full and equal rights to all its citizens , of any race or of any color . This administration has shown as never before how much could be done through the full use of Executive powers through the enforcement of laws already passed by the Congress through persuasion , negotiation , and litigation , to secure the constitutional rights of all the right to vote , the right to travel Without hindrance across State lines , and the right to free public education . I issued last March a comprehensive order to guarantee the right to equal employment opportunity in all Federal agencies and contractors . The Vice President s Committee thus created has done much , including the voluntary Plans for progress which , in all sections of the country , are achieving a quiet but striking success in opening up to all races new professional , supervisory , and other job opportunities . But there is much more to be done by the Executive , by the courts , and by the Congress . Among the bills now pending before you , on which the executive departments will comment in detail , are appropriate methods of strengthening these basic rights which have our full support . The right to vote , for example , should no longer be denied through such arbitrary devices on a local level , sometimes abused , such as literacy tests and poll taxes . As we approach the 100th anniversary , next January , of the Emancipation Proclamation , let the acts of every branch of the Government and every citizen portray that righteousness does exalt a nation . Finally , a strong America cannot neglect the aspirations of its citizens the welfare of the needy , the health care of the elderly , the education of the young . For we are not developing the Nation s wealth for its own sake . Wealth is the means and people arc the ends . All our material riches will avail us little if we do not use them to expand the opportunities of our people . Last year , we improved the diet of needy people provided more hot lunches and fresh milk to school children built more college dormitories and , for the elderly , expanded private housing , nursing homes , heath services , and social security . But we have just begun . To help those least fortunate of all , I am recommending a new public welfare program , stressing services instead of support , rehabilitation instead of relief , and training for useful work instead of prolonged dependency . To relieve the critical shortage of doctors and dentists and this is a matter which should concern us all and expand research , I urge action to aid medical and dental colleges and scholarships and to establish new National Institutes of Health . To take advantage of modern vaccination achievements , I am proposing a mass immunization program , aimed at the virtual elimination of such ancient enemies of our children as polio , diphtheria , whooping cough , and tetanus . To protect our consumers from the careless and the unscrupulous , I shall recommend improvements in the Food and Drug laws strengthening inspection and standards , halting unsafe and worthless products , preventing misleading labels , and cracking down on the illicit sale of habit forming drugs . But in matters of health , no piece of unfinished business is more important or more urgent than the enactment under the social security system of health insurance for the aged . For our older citizens have longer and more frequent illnesses , higher hospital and medical bills and too little income to pay them . Private health insurance helps very few for its cost is high and its coverage limited . Public welfare cannot help those too proud to seek relief but hard pressed to pay their own bills . Nor can their children or grandchildren always sacrifice their own health budgets to meet this constant drain . Social security has long helped to meet the hardships of retirement , death , and disability . I now urge that its coverage be extended without further delay to provide health insurance for the elderly . Equally important to our strength is the quality of our education . Eight million adult Americans are classified as functionally illiterate . This is a disturbing figure reflected in Selective Service rejection rates reflected in welfare rolls and crime rates . And I shall recommend plans for a massive attack to end this adult illiteracy . I shall also recommend bills to improve educational quality , to stimulate the arts , and , at the college level , to provide Federal loans for the construction of academic facilities and federally financed scholarships . If this Nation is to grow in wisdom and strength , then every able high school graduate should have the opportunity to develop his talents . Yet nearly half lack either the funds or the facilities to attend college . Enrollments are going to double in our colleges in the short space of 10 years . The annual cost per student is skyrocketing to astronomical levels now averaging 1 , 650 a year , although almost half of our families earn less than 5 , 000 . They cannot afford such costs but this Nation cannot afford to maintain its military power and neglect its brainpower . But excellence in education must begin at the elementary level . I sent to the Congress last year a proposal for Federal aid to public school construction and teachers salaries . I believe that bill , which passed the Senate and received House Committee approval , offered the minimum amount required by our needs and in terms of across the board aid the maximum scope permitted by our Constitution . I therefore see no reason to weaken or withdraw that bill and I urge its passage at this session . Civilization , said Wells , is a race between education and catastrophe . It is up to you in this Congress to determine the winner of that race . These are not unrelated measures addressed to specific gaps or grievances in our national life . They are the pattern of our intentions and the foundation of our hopes . I believe in democracy , said Woodrow Wilson , because it releases the energy of every human being . The dynamic of democracy is the power and the purpose of the individual , and the policy of this administration is to give to the individual the opportunity to realize his own highest possibilities . Our program is to open to all the opportunity for steady and productive employment , to remove from all the handicap of arbitrary or irrational exclusion , to offer to all the facilities for education and health and welfare , to make society the servant of the individual and the individual the source of progress , and thus to realize for all the full promise of American life . All of these efforts at home give meaning to our efforts abroad . Since the close of the Second World War , a global civil war has divided and tormented mankind . But it is not our military might , or our higher standard of living , that has most distinguished us from our adversaries . It is our belief that the state is the servant of the citizen and not his master . This basic clash of ideas and wills is but one of the forces reshaping our globe swept as it is by the tides of hope and fear , by crises in the headlines today that become mere footnotes tomorrow . Both the successes and the setbacks of the past year remain on our agenda of unfinished business . For every apparent blessing contains the seeds of danger every area of trouble gives out a ray of hope and the one unchangeable certainty is that nothing is certain or unchangeable . Yet our basic goal remains the same a peaceful world community of free and independent states free to choose their own future and their own system , so long as it does not threaten the freedom of others . Some may choose forms and ways that we would not choose for ourselves but it is not for us that they are choosing . We can welcome diversity the Communists cannot . For we offer a world of choice they offer the world of coercion . And the way of the past shows dearly that freedom , not coercion , is the wave of the future . At times our goal has been obscured by crisis or endangered by conflict but it draws sustenance from five basic sources of strength the moral and physical strength of the United States the united strength of the Atlantic Community the regional strength of our Hemispheric relations the creative strength of our efforts in the new and developing nations and the peace keeping strength of the United Nations . Our moral and physical strength begins at home as already discussed . But it includes our military strength as well . So long as fanaticism and fear brood over the affairs of men , we must arm to deter others from aggression . In the past 12 months our military posture has steadily improved . We increased the previous defense budget by 15 percent not in the expectation of war but for the preservation of peace . We more than doubled our acquisition rate of Polaris submarines we doubled the production capacity for Minuteman missiles and increased by 50 percent the number of manned bombers standing ready on a 15 minute alert . This year the combined force levels planned under our new Defense budget including nearly three hundred additional Polaris and Minuteman missiles have been precisely calculated to insure the continuing strength of our nuclear deterrent . But our strength may be tested at many levels . We intend to have at all times the capacity to resist non nuclear or limited attacks as a complement to our nuclear capacity , not as a substitute . We have rejected any all or nothing posture which would leave no choice but inglorious retreat or unlimited retaliation . Thus we have doubled the number of ready combat divisions in the Army s strategic reserve increased our troops in Europe built up the Marines added new sealift and airlift capacity modernized our weapons and ammunition expanded our anti guerrilla forces and increased the active fleet by more than 70 vessels and our tactical air forces by nearly a dozen wings . Because we needed to reach this higher long term level of readiness more quickly , 155 , 000 members of the Reserve and National Guard were activated under the Act of this Congress . Some disruptions and distress were inevitable . But the overwhelming majority bear their burdens and their Nation s burdens with admirable and traditional devotion . In the coming year , our reserve programs will be revised two Army Divisions will , I hope , replace those Guard Divisions on duty and substantial other increases will boost our Air Force fighter units , the procurement of equipment , and our continental defense and warning efforts . The Nation s first serious civil defense shelter program is under way , identifying , marking , and stocking 50 million spaces and I urge your approval of Federal incentives for the construction of public fall out shelters in schools and hospitals and similar centers . But arms alone are not enough to keep the peace it must be kept by men . Our instrument and our hope is the United Nations and I see little merit in the impatience of those who would abandon this imperfect world instrument because they dislike our imperfect world . For the troubles of a world organization merely reflect the troubles of the world itself . And if the organization is weakened , these troubles can only increase . We may not always agree with every detailed action taken by every officer of the United Nations , or with every voting majority . But as an institution , it should have in the future , as it has had in the past since its inception , no stronger or more faithful member than the United States of America . In 1961 the peace keeping strength of the United Nations was reinforced . And those who preferred or predicted its demise , envisioning a troika in the seat of Hammarskiold or Red China inside the Assembly have seen instead a new vigor , under a new Secretary General and a fully independent Secretariat . In making plans for a new forum and principles on disarmament for peace keeping in outer space for a decade of development effort the UN fulfilled its Charter s lofty aim . Eighteen months ago the tangled and turbulent Congo presented the UN with its gravest challenge . The prospect was one of chaos or certain big power confrontation , with all of its hazards and all of its risks , to us and to others . Today the hopes have improved for peaceful conciliation within a united Congo . This is the objective of our policy in this important area . No policeman is universally popular particularly when he uses his stick to restore law and order on his beat . Those members who are willing to contribute their votes and their views but very little else have created a serious deficit by refusing to pay their share of special UN assessments . Yet they do pay their annual assessments to retain their votes and a new UN Bond issue , financing special operations for the next 18 months , is to be repaid with interest from these regular assessments . This is clearly in our interest . It will not only keep the UN solvent , but require all voting members to pay their fair share of its activities . Our share of special operations has long been much higher than our share of the annual assessment and the bond issue will in effect reduce our disproportionate obligation , and for these reasons , I am urging Congress to approve our participation . With the approval of this Congress , we have undertaken in the past year a great new effort in outer space . Our aim is not simply to be first on the moon , any more than Charles Lindbergh s real aim was to be the first to Paris . His aim was to develop the techniques of our own country and other countries in the field of air and the atmosphere , and our objective in making this effort , which we hope will place one of our citizens on the moon , is to develop in a new frontier of science , commerce and cooperation , the position of the United States and the Free World . This Nation belongs among the first to explore it , and among the first if not the first we shall be . We are offering our know how and our cooperation to the United Nations . Our satellites will soon be providing other nations with improved weather observations . And I shall soon send to the Congress a measure to govern the financing and operation of an International Communications Satellite system , in a manner consistent with the public interest and our foreign policy . But peace in space will help us naught once peace on earth is gone . World order will be secured only when the whole world has laid down these weapons which seem to offer us present security but threaten the future survival of the human race . That armistice day seems very far away . The vast resources of this planet are being devoted more and more to the means of destroying , instead of enriching , human life . But the world was not meant to be a prison in which man awaits his execution . Nor has mankind survived the tests and trials of thousands of years to surrender everything including its existence now . This Nation has the will and the faith to make a supreme effort to break the log jam on disarmament and nuclear tests and we will persist until we prevail , until the rule of law has replaced the ever dangerous use of force . I turn now to a prospect of great promise our Hemispheric relations . The Alliance for Progress is being rapidly transformed from proposal to program . Last month in Latin America I saw for myself the quickening of hope , the revival of confidence , the new trust in our country among workers and farmers as well as diplomats . We have pledged our help in speeding their economic , educational , and social progress . The Latin American Republics have in turn pledged a new and strenuous effort of self help and self reform . To support this historic undertaking , I am proposing under the authority contained in the bills of the last session of the Congress a special long term Alliance for Progress fund of 3 billion . Combined with our Food for Peace , Export Import Bank , and other resources , this will provide more than 1 billion a year in new support for the Alliance . In addition , we have increased twelve fold our Spanish and Portuguese language broadcasting in Latin America , . and improved Hemispheric trade and defense . And while the blight of communism has been increasingly exposed and isolated in the Americas , liberty has scored a gain . The people of the Dominican Republic , with our firm encouragement and help , and those of our sister Republics of this Hemisphere are safely passing through the treacherous course from dictatorship through disorder towards democracy . Our efforts to help other new or developing nations , and to strengthen their stand for freedom , have also made progress . A newly unified Agency for International Development is reorienting our foreign assistance to emphasize long term development loans instead of grants , more economic aid instead of military , individual plans to meet the individual needs of the nations , and new standards on what they must do to marshal their own resources . A newly conceived Peace Corps is winning friends and helping people in fourteen countries supplying trained and dedicated young men and women , to give these new nations a hand in building a society , and a glimpse of the best that is in our country . If there is a problem here , it is that we cannot supply the spontaneous and mounting demand . A newly expanded Food for Peace Pro . gram is feeding the hungry of many lands with the abundance of our productive farms providing lunches for children in school , wages for economic development , relief for the victims of flood and famine , and a better diet for millions whose daily bread is their chief concern . These programs help people and , by helping people , they help freedom . The views of their governments may sometimes be very different from ours but events in Africa , the Middle East , and Eastern Europe teach us never to write off any nation as lost to the Communists That is the lesson of our time . We support the independence of those newer or weaker states whose history , geography , economy or lack of power impels them to remain outside entangling alliances as we did for more than a century . For the independence of nations is a bar to the Communists grand design it is the basis of our own . In the past year , for example , we have urged a neutral and independent Laos regained there a common policy with our major allies and insisted that a cease fire precede negotiations . While a workable formula for supervising its independence is still to be achieved , both the spread of war which might have involved this country also and a Communist occupation have thus far been prevented . A satisfactory settlement in Laos would also help to achieve and safeguard the peace in Viet Nam where the foe is increasing his tactics of terror where our own efforts have been stepped up and where the local government has initiated new programs and reforms to broaden the base of resistance . The systematic aggression now bleeding that country is not a war of liberation for Viet Nam is already free . It is a war of attempted subjugation and it will be resisted . Finally , the united strength of the Atlantic Community has flourished in the last year under severe tests . NATO has increased both the number and the readiness of its air , ground , and naval units both its nuclear and non nuclear capabilities . Even greater efforts by all its members are still required . Nevertheless our unity of purpose and will has been , I believe , immeasurably strengthened . The threat to the brave city of Berlin remains . In these last 6 months the Allies have made it unmistakably clear that our presence in Berlin , our free access thereto , and the freedom of two million West Berliners would not be surrendered either to force or through appeasement and to maintain those rights and obligations , we are prepared to talk , when appropriate , and to fight , if necessary . Every member of NATO stands with us in a common commitment to preserve this symbol of free man s will to remain free . I cannot now predict the course of future negotiations over Berlin . I can only say that we are sparing no honorable effort to find a peaceful and mutually acceptable resolution of this problem . I believe such a resolution can be found , and with it an improvement in our relations with the Soviet Union , if only the leaders in the Kremlin will recognize the basic rights and interests involved , and the interest of all mankind in peace . But the Atlantic Community is no longer concerned with purely military aims . As its common undertakings grow at an ever increasing pace , we are , and increasingly will be , partners in aid , trade , defense , diplomacy , and monetary affairs . The emergence of the new Europe is being matched by the emergence of new ties across the Atlantic . It is a matter of undramatic daily cooperation in hundreds of workaday tasks of currencies kept in effective relation , of development loans meshed together , of standardized weapons , and concerted diplomatic positions . The Atlantic Community grows , not like a volcanic mountain , by one mighty explosion , but like a coral reef , from the accumulating activity of all . Thus , we in the free world are moving steadily toward unity and cooperation , in the teeth of that old Bolshevik prophecy , and at the very time when extraordinary rumbles of discord can be heard across the Iron Curtain . It is not free societies which bear within them the seeds of inevitable disunity . On one special problem , of great concern to our friends , and to us , I am proud to give the Congress an encouraging report . Our efforts to safeguard the dollar are progressing . In the 11 months preceding last February 1 , we suffered a net loss of nearly 2 billion in gold . In the 11 months that followed , the loss was just over half a billion dollars . And our deficit in our basic transactions with the rest of the world trade , defense , foreign aid , and capital , excluding volatile short term flows has been reduced from 2 billion for 1960 to about one third that amount for 1961 . Speculative fever against the dollar is ending and confidence in the dollar has been restored . We did not and could not achieve these gains through import restrictions , troop withdrawals , exchange controls , dollar devaluation or choking off domestic recovery . We acted not in panic but in perspective . But the problem is not yet solved . Persistently large deficits would endanger our economic growth and our military and defense commitments abroad . Our goal must be a reasonable equilibrium in our balance of payments . With the cooperation of the Congress , business , labor , and our major allies , that goal can be reached . We shall continue to attract foreign tourists and investments to our shores , to seek increased military purchases here by our allies , to maximize foreign aid procurement from American firms , to urge increased aid from other fortunate nations to the less fortunate , to seek tax laws which do not favor investment in other industrialized nations or tax havens , and to urge coordination of allied fiscal and monetary policies So as to discourage large and disturbing capital movements . Above all , if we are to pay for our commitments abroad , we must expand our exports . Our businessmen must be export conscious and export competitive . Our tax policies must spur modernization of our plants our wage and price gains must be consistent with productivity to hold the line on prices our export credit and promotion campaigns for American industries must continue to expand . But the greatest challenge of all is posed by the growth of the European Common Market . Assuming the accession of the United Kingdom , there will arise across the Atlantic a trading partner behind a single external tariff similar to ours with an economy which nearly equals our own . Will we in this country adapt our thinking to these new prospects and patterns or will we wait until events have passed us by This is the year to decide . The Reciprocal Trade Act is expiring . We need a new law a wholly new approach a bold new instrument of American trade policy . Our decision could well affect the unity of the West , the course of the Cold War , and the economic growth of our Nation for a generation to come . If we move decisively , our factories and farms can increase their sales to their richest , fastest growing market . Our exports will increase . Our balance of payments position will improve . And we will have forged across the Atlantic a trading partnership with vast resources for freedom . If , on the other hand , we hang back in deference to local economic pressures , we will find ourselves cut off from our major allies . Industries and I believe this is most vital industries will move their plants and jobs and capital inside the walls of the Common Market , and jobs , therefore , will be lost here in the United States if they cannot otherwise compete for its consumers . Our farm surpluses our balance of trade , as you all know , to Europe , the Common Market , in farm products , is nearly three or four to one in our favor , amounting to one of the best earners of dollars in our balance of payments structure , and without entrance to this Market , without the ability to enter it , our farm surpluses will pile up in the Middle West , tobacco in the South , and other commodities , which have gone through Western Europe for 15 years . Our balance of payments position will worsen . Our consumers , will lack a wider choice of goods at lower prices . And millions of American workers whose jobs depend on the sale or the transportation or the distribution of exports or imports , or whose jobs will be endangered by the movement of our capital to Europe , or whose jobs can be maintained only in . an expanding economy these millions of workers in your home States and mine will see their real interests sacrificed . Members of the Congress The United States did not rise to greatness by waiting for others to lead . This Nation is the world s foremost manufacturer , farmer , banker , consumer , and exporter . The Common Market is moving ahead at an economic growth rate twice ours . The Communist economic offensive is under way . The opportunity is ours the initiative is up to us and I believe that 1962 is the time . To seize that initiative , I shall shortly send to the Congress a new five year Trade Expansion Action , far reaching in scope but designed with great care to make certain that its benefits to our people far outweigh any risks . The bill will permit the gradual elimination of tariffs here in the United States and in the Common Market on those items in which we together supply 80 percent of the world s trade mostly items in which our own ability to compete is demonstrated by the fact that we sell abroad , in these items , substantially more than we import . This step will make it possible for our major industries to compete with their counterparts in Western Europe for access to European consumers . On other goods the bill will permit a gradual reduction of duties up to 50 percent permitting bargaining by major categories and provide for appropriate and tested forms of assistance to firms and employees adjusting to import competition . We are not neglecting the safeguards provided by peril points , an escape clause , or the National Security Amendment . Nor are we abandoning our non European friends or our traditional most favored nation principle . On the contrary , the bill will provide new encouragement for their sale of tropical agricultural products , so important to our friends in Latin America , who have long depended upon the European market , who now find themselves faced with new challenges which we must join with them in overcoming . Concessions , in this bargaining , must of course be reciprocal , not unilateral . The Common Market will not fulfill its own high promise unless its outside tariff walls are low . The dangers of restriction or timidity in our own policy have counterparts for our friends in Europe . For together we face a common challenge to enlarge the prosperity of free men everywhere to build in partnership a new trading community in which all free nations may gain from the productive energy of free competitive effort . These various elements in our foreign policy lead , as I have said , to a single goal the goal of a peaceful world of free and independent states . This is our guide for the present and our vision for the future a free community of nations , independent but interdependent , uniting north and south , east and west , in one great family of man , outgrowing and transcending the hates and fears that rend our age . We will not reach that goal today , or tomorrow . We may not reach it in our own lifetime . But the quest is the greatest adventure of our century . We sometimes chafe at the burden of our obligations , the complexity of our decisions , the agony of our choices . But there is no comfort or security for us in evasion , no solution in abdication , no relief in irresponsibility . A year ago , in assuming the tasks of the Presidency , I said that few generations , in all history , had been granted the role of being the great defender of freedom in its hour of maximum danger . This is our good fortune and I welcome it now as I did a year ago . For it is the fate of this generation of you in the Congress and of me as President to live with a struggle we did not start , in a world we did not make . But the pressures of life are not always distributed by choice . And while no nation has ever faced such a challenge , no nation has ever been so ready to seize the burden and the glory of freedom . And in this high endeavor , may God watch over the United States of America .<speech_sep>President Pitzer , Vice President , Governor , Congressman Thomas , Senator Wiley , and Congressman Miller , Webb . Bell , scientists , distinguished guests , and ladies and gentlemen I appreciate your president having made me an honorary visiting professor , and I will assure you that my first lecture will be very brief . I am delighted to be here and I am particularly delighted to be here on this occasion . We meet at a college noted for knowledge , in a city noted for progress , in a State noted for strength , and we stand in need of all three , for we meet in an hour of change and challenge , in a decade of hope and fear , in an age of both knowledge and ignorance . The greater our knowledge increases , the greater our ignorance unfolds . Despite the striking fact that most of the scientists that the world has ever known are alive and working today , despite the fact that this Nation s own scientific manpower is doubling every 12 years in a rate of growth more than three times that of our population as a whole , despite that , the vast stretches of the unknown and the unanswered and the unfinished still far outstrip our collective comprehension . No man can fully grasp how far and how fast we have come , but condense , if you will , the 50 , 000 years of man s recorded history in a time span of but a half century . Stated in these terms , we know very little about the first 40 years , except at the end of them advanced man had learned to use the skins of animals to cover them . Then about 10 years ago , under this standard , man emerged from his caves to construct other kinds of shelter . Only 5 years ago man learned to write and use a cart with wheels . Christianity began less than 2 years ago . The printing press came this year , and then less than 2 months ago , during this whole 50 year span of human history , the steam engine provided a new source of power . Newton explored the meaning of gravity . Last month electric lights and telephones and automobiles and airplanes became available . Only last week did we develop penicillin and television and nuclear power , and now if America s new spacecraft succeeds in reaching Venus , we will have literally reached the stars before midnight tonight . This is a breathtaking pace , and such a pace cannot help but create new ills as it dispels old , new ignorance , new problems , new dangers . Surely the opening vistas of space promise high costs and hardships , as well as high reward . So it is not surprising that some would have us stay where we are a little longer to rest , to wait . But this city of Houston , this State of Texas , this country of the United States was not built by those who waited and rested and wished to look behind them . This country was conquered by those who moved forward and so will space . William Bradford , speaking in 1630 of the founding of the Plymouth Bay Colony , said that all great and honorable actions are accompanied with great difficulties , and both must be enterprised and overcome with answerable courage . If this capsule history of our progress teaches us anything , it is that man , in his quest for knowledge and progress , is determined and cannot be deterred . The exploration of space will go ahead , whether we join in it or not , and it is one of the great adventures of all time , and no nation which expects to be the leader of other nations can expect to stay behind in this race for space . Those who came before us made certain that this country rode the first waves of the industrial revolutions , the first waves of modern invention , and the first wave of nuclear power , and this generation does not intend to founder in the backwash of the coming age of space . We mean to be a part of it we mean to lead it . For the eyes of the world now look into space , to the moon and to the planets beyond , and we have vowed that we shall not see it governed by a hostile flag of conquest , but by a banner of freedom and peace . We have vowed that we shall not see space filled with weapons of mass destruction , but with instruments of knowledge and understanding . Yet the vows of this Nation can only be fulfilled if we in this Nation are first , and , therefore , we intend to be first . In short , our leadership in science and in industry , our hopes for peace and security , our obligations to ourselves as well as others , all require us to make this effort , to solve these mysteries , to solve them for the good of all men , and to become the world s leading space faring nation . We set sail on this new sea because there is new knowledge to be gained , and new rights to be won , and they must be won and used for the progress of all people . For space science , like nuclear science and all technology , has no conscience of its own . Whether it will become a force for good or ill depends on man , and only if the United States occupies a position of pre eminence can we help decide whether this new ocean will be a sea of peace or a new terrifying theater of war . I do not say that we should or will go unprotected against the hostile misuse of space any more than we go unprotected against the hostile use of land or sea , but I do say that space can be explored and mastered without feeding the fires of war , without repeating the mistakes that man has made in extending his writ around this globe of ours . There is no strife , no prejudice , no national conflict in outer space as yet . Its hazards are hostile to us all . Its conquest deserves the best of all mankind , and its opportunity for peaceful cooperation may never come again . But why , some say , the moon Why choose this as our goal And they may well ask why climb the highest mountain . Why , 35 years ago , fly the Atlantic Why does Rice play Texas We choose to go to the moon . We choose to go to the moon in this decade and do the other things , not because they are easy , but because they are hard , because that goal will serve to organize and measure the best of our energies and skills , because that challenge is one that we are willing to accept , one we are unwilling to postpone , and one which we intend to win , and the others , too . It is for these reasons that I regard the decision last year to shift our efforts in space from low to high gear as among the most important decisions that will be made during my incumbency in the Office of the Presidency . In the last 24 hours we have seen facilities now being created for the greatest and most complex exploration in man s history . We have felt the ground shake and the air shattered by the testing of a Saturn C 1 booster rocket , many times as powerful as the Atlas which launched John Glenn , generating power equivalent to 10 , 000 automobiles with their accelerators on the floor . We have seen the site where five F 1 rocket engines , each one as powerful as all eight engines of the Saturn combined , will be clustered together to make the advanced Saturn missile , assembled in a new building to be built at Cape Canaveral as tall as a 48 story structure , as wide as a city block , and as long as two lengths of this field . Within these last 19 months at least 45 satellites have circled the earth . Some 40 of them were made in the United States of America and they were far more sophisticated and supplied far more knowledge to the people of the world than those of the Soviet Union . The Mariner spacecraft now on its way to Venus is the most intricate instrument in the history of space science . The accuracy of that shot is comparable to firing a missile from Cape Canaveral and dropping it in this stadium between the 40 yard lines . Transit satellites are helping our ships at sea to steer a safer course . Tiros satellites have given us unprecedented warnings of hurricanes and storms , and will do the same for forest fires and icebergs . We have had our failures , but so have others , even if they do not admit them . And they may be less public . To be sure , we are behind , and will be behind for some time in manned flight . But we do not intend to stay behind , and in this decade we shall make up and move ahead . The growth of our science and education will be enriched by new knowledge of our universe and environment , by new techniques of learning and mapping and observation , by new tools and computers for industry , medicine , the home as well as the school . Technical institutions , such as Rice , will reap the harvest of these gains . And finally , the space effort itself , while still in its infancy , has already created a great number of new companies , and tens of thousands of new jobs . Space and related industries are generating new demands in investment and skilled personnel , and this city and this State , and this region , will share greatly in this growth . What was once the furthest outpost on the old frontier of the West will be the furthest outpost on the new frontier of science and space . Houston , your City of Houston , with its Manned Spacecraft Center , will become the heart of a large scientific and engineering community . During the next 5 years the National Aeronautics and Space Administration expects to double the number of scientists and engineers in this area , to increase its outlays for salaries and expenses to 60 million a year to invest some 200 million in plant and laboratory facilities and to direct or contract for new space efforts over 1 billion from this Center in this City . To be sure , all this costs us all a good deal of money . This year s space budget is three times what it was in January 1961 , and it is greater than the space budget of the previous 8 years combined . That budget now stands at 5 , 400 million a year a staggering sum , though somewhat less than we pay for cigarettes and cigars every year . Space expenditures will soon rise some more , from 40 cents per person per week to more than 50 cents a week for every man , woman , and child in the United States , for we have given this program a high national priority even though I realize that this is in some measure an act of faith and vision , for we do not now know what benefits await us . But if I were to say , my fellow citizens , that we shall send to the moon , 240 , 000 miles away from the control station in Houston , a giant rocket more than 300 feet tall , the length of this football field , made of new metal alloys , some of which have not yet been invented , capable of standing heat and stresses several times more than have ever been experienced , fitted together with a precision better than the finest watch , carrying all the equipment needed for propulsion , guidance , control , communications , food and survival , on an untried mission , to an unknown celestial body , and then return it safely to earth , reentering the atmosphere at speeds of over 25 , 000 miles per hour , causing heat about half that of the temperature of the sun almost as hot as it is here today and do all this , and do it right , and do it first before this decade is out , then we must be bold . I am the one who is doing all the work , so we just want you to stay cool for a minute . However , I think we are going to do it , and I think that we must pay what needs to be paid . I do not think we ought to waste any money , but I think we ought to do the job . And this will be done in the decade of the sixties . It may be done while some of you are still here at school at this college and university . It will be done during the terms of office of some of the people who sit here on this platform . But it will be done . And it will be done before the end of this decade . I am delighted that this university is playing a part in putting a man on the moon as part of a great national effort of the United States of America . Many years ago the great British explorer George Mallory , who was to die on Mount Everest , was asked why did he want to climb it . He said , Because it is there . Well , space is there , and we are going to climb it , and the moon and the planets are there , and new hopes for knowledge and peace are there . And , therefore , as we set sail we ask God s blessing on the most hazardous and dangerous and greatest adventure on which man has ever embarked . Thank you .<speech_sep>Good evening , my fellow citizens This afternoon , following a series of threats and defiant statements , the presence of Alabama National Guardsmen was required on the University of Alabama to carry out the final and unequivocal order of the United States District Court of the Northern District of Alabama . That order called for the admission of two clearly qualified young Alabama residents who happened to have been born Negro . That they were admitted peacefully on the campus is due in good measure to the conduct of the students of the University of Alabama , who met their responsibilities in a constructive way . I hope that every American , regardless of where he lives , will stop and examine his conscience about this and other related incidents . This Nation was founded by men of many nations and backgrounds . It was founded on the principle that all men are created equal , and that the rights of every man are diminished when the rights of one man are threatened . Today we are committed to a worldwide struggle to promote and protect the rights of all who wish to be free . And when Americans are sent to Viet Nam or West Berlin , we do not ask for whites only . It ought to be possible , therefore , for American students of any color to attend any public institution they select without having to be backed up by troops . It ought to be possible for American consumers of any color to receive equal service in places of public accommodation , such as hotels and restaurants and theaters and retail stores , without being forced to resort to demonstrations in the street , and it ought to be possible for American citizens of any color to register and to vote in a free election without interference or fear of reprisal . It ought to be possible , in short , for every American to enjoy the privileges of being American without regard to his race or his color . In short , every American ought to have the right to be treated as he would wish to be treated , as one would wish his children to be treated . But this is not the case . The Negro baby born in America today , regardless of the section of the Nation in which he is born , has about one half as much chance of completing a high school as a white baby born in the same place on the same day , one third as much chance of completing college , one third as much chance of becoming a professional man , twice as much chance of becoming unemployed , about one seventh as much chance of earning 10 , 000 a year , a life expectancy which is 7 years shorter , and the prospects of earning only half as much . This is not a sectional issue . Difficulties over segregation and discrimination exist in every city , in every State of the Union , producing in many cities a rising tide of discontent that threatens the public safety . Nor is this a partisan issue . In a time of domestic crisis men of good will and generosity should be able to unite regardless of party or politics . This is not even a legal or legislative issue alone . It is better to settle these matters in the courts than on the streets , and new laws are needed at every level , but law alone cannot make men see right . We are confronted primarily with a moral issue . It is as old as the scriptures and is as clear as the American Constitution . The heart of the question is whether all Americans are to be afforded equal rights and equal opportunities , whether we are going to treat our fellow Americans as we want to be treated . If an American , because his skin is dark , cannot eat lunch in a restaurant open to the public , if he cannot send his children to the best public school available , if he cannot vote for the public officials who represent him , if , in short , he cannot enjoy the full and free life which all of us want , then who among us would be content to have the color of his skin changed and stand in his place Who among us would then be content with the counsels of patience and delay One hundred years of delay have passed since President Lincoln freed the slaves , yet their heirs , their grandsons , are not fully free . They are not yet freed from the bonds of injustice . They are not yet freed from social and economic oppression . And this Nation , for all its hopes and all its boasts , will not be fully free until all its citizens are free . We preach freedom around the world , and we mean it , and we cherish our freedom here at home , but are we to say to the world , and much more importantly , to each other that this is a land of the free except for the Negroes that we have no second class citizens except Negroes that we have no class or cast system , no ghettoes , no master race except with respect to Negroes Now the time has come for this Nation to fulfill its promise . The events in Birmingham and elsewhere have so increased the cries for equality that no city or State or legislative body can prudently choose to ignore them . The fires of frustration and discord are burning in every city , North and South , where legal remedies are not at hand . Redress is sought in the streets , in demonstrations , parades , and protests which create tensions and threaten violence and threaten lives . We face , therefore , a moral crisis as a country and as a people . It cannot be met by repressive police action . It cannot be left to increased demonstrations in the streets . It cannot be quieted by token moves or talk . It is a time to act in the Congress , in your State and local legislative body and , above all , in all of our daily lives . It is not enough to pin the blame on others , to say this is a problem of one section of the country or another , or deplore the fact that we face . A great change is at hand , and our task , our obligation , is to make that revolution , that change , peaceful and constructive for all . Those who do nothing are inviting shame as well as violence . Those who act boldly are recognizing right as well as reality . Next week I shall ask the Congress of the United States to act , to make a commitment it has not fully made in this century to the proposition that race has no place in American life or law . The Federal judiciary has upheld that proposition in a series of forthright cases . The executive branch has adopted that proposition in the conduct of its affairs , including the employment of Federal personnel , the use of Federal facilities , and the sale of federally financed housing . But there are other necessary measures which only the Congress can provide , and they must be provided at this session . The old code of equity law under which we live commands for every wrong a remedy , but in too many communities , in too many parts of the country , wrongs are inflicted on Negro citizens and there are no remedies at law . Unless the Congress acts , their only remedy is in the street . I am , therefore , asking the Congress to enact legislation giving all Americans the right to be served in facilities which are open to the public hotels , restaurants , theaters , retail stores , and similar establishments . This seems to me to be an elementary right . Its denial is an arbitrary indignity that no American in 1963 should have to endure , but many do . I have recently met with scores of business leaders urging them to take voluntary action to end this discrimination and I have been encouraged by their response , and in the last 2 weeks over 75 cities have seen progress made in desegregating these kinds of facilities . But many are unwilling to act alone , and for this reason , nationwide legislation is needed if we are to move this problem from the streets to the courts . I am also asking Congress to authorize the Federal Government to participate more fully in lawsuits designed to end segregation in public education . We have succeeded in persuading many districts to de segregate voluntarily . Dozens have admitted Negroes without violence . Today a Negro is attending a State supported institution in every one of our 50 States , but the pace is very slow . Too many Negro children entering segregated grade schools at the time of the Supreme Court s decision 9 years ago will enter segregated high schools this fall , having suffered a loss which can never be restored . The lack of an adequate education denies the Negro a chance to get a decent job . The orderly implementation of the Supreme Court decision , therefore , cannot be left solely to those who may not have the economic resources to carry the legal action or who may be subject to harassment . Other features will be also requested , including greater protection for the right to vote . But legislation , I repeat , cannot solve this problem alone . It must be solved in the homes of every American in every community across our country . In this respect , I want to pay tribute to those citizens North and South who have been working in their communities to make life better for all . They are acting not out of a sense of legal duty but out of a sense of human decency . Like our soldiers and sailors in all parts of the world they are meeting freedom s challenge on the firing line , and I salute them for their honor and their courage . My fellow Americans , this is a problem which faces us all in every city of the North as well as the South . Today there are Negroes unemployed , two or three times as many compared to whites , inadequate in education , moving into the large cities , unable to find work , young people particularly out of work without hope , denied equal rights , denied the opportunity to eat at a restaurant or lunch counter or go to a movie theater , denied the right to a decent education , denied almost today the right to attend a State university even though qualified . It seems to me that these are matters which concern us all , not merely Presidents or Congressmen or Governors , but every citizen of the United States . This is one country . It has become one country because all of us and all the people who came here had an equal chance to develop their talents . We cannot say to 10 percent of the population that you cannot have that right that your children cannot have the chance to develop whatever talents they have that the only way that they are going to get their rights is to go into the streets and demonstrate . I think we owe them and we owe ourselves a better country than that . Therefore , I am asking for your help in making it easier for us to move ahead and to provide the kind of equality of treatment which we would want ourselves to give a chance for every child to be educated to the limit of his talents . As I have said before , not every child has an equal talent or an equal ability or an equal motivation , but they should have the equal right to develop their talent and their ability and their motivation , to make something of themselves . We have a right to expect that the Negro community will be responsible , will uphold the law , but they have a right to expect that the law will be fair , that the Constitution will be color blind , as Justice Harlan said at the turn of the century . This is what we are talking about and this is a matter which concerns this country and what it stands for , and in meeting it I ask the support of all our citizens . Thank you very much .<speech_sep>President as one who has taken some interest in the election of Presidents , I want to congratulate you on your election to this high office Secretary General , delegates to the United Nations , ladies and gentlemen We meet again in the quest for peace . Twenty four months ago , when I last had the honor of addressing this body , the shadow of fear lay darkly across the world . The freedom of West Berlin was in immediate peril . Agreement on a neutral Laos seemed remote . The mandate of the United Nations in the Congo was under fire . The financial outlook for this organization was in doubt . Dag Hammarskjold was dead . The doctrine of troika was being pressed in his place , and atmospheric nuclear tests had been resumed by the Soviet Union . Those were anxious days for mankind and some men wondered aloud whether this organization could survive . But the 16th and 17th General Assemblies achieved not only survival but progress . Rising to its responsibility , the United Nations helped reduce the tensions and helped to hold back the darkness . Today the clouds have lifted a little so that new rays of hope can break through . The pressures on West Berlin appear to be temporarily eased . Political unity in the Congo has been largely restored . A neutral coalition in Laos , while still in difficulty , is at least in being . The integrity of the United Nations Secretariat has been reaffirmed . A United Nations Decade of Development is under way . And , for the first time in 17 years of effort , a specific step has been taken to limit the nuclear arms race . I refer , of course , to the treaty to ban nuclear tests in the atmosphere , outer space , and under water concluded by the Soviet Union , the United Kingdom , and the United States and already signed by nearly 100 countries . It has been hailed by people the world over who are thankful to be free from the fears of nuclear fallout , and I am confident that on next Tuesday at 10 30 of the clock in the morning it will receive the overwhelming endorsement of the Senate of the United States . The world has not escaped from the darkness . The long shadows of conflict and crisis envelop us still . But we meet today in an atmosphere of rising hope , and at a moment of comparative calm . My presence here today is not a sign of crisis , but of confidence . I am not here to report on a new threat to the peace or new signs of war . I have come to salute the United Nations and to show the support of the American people for your daily deliberations . For the value of this body s work is not dependent on the existence of emergencies nor can the winning of peace consist only of dramatic victories . Peace is a daily , a weekly , a monthly process , gradually changing opinions , slowly eroding old barriers , quietly building new structures . And however undramatic the pursuit of peace , that pursuit must go on . Today we may have reached a pause in the cold war but that is not a lasting peace . A test ban treaty is a milestone but it is not the millennium . We have not been released from our obligations we have been given an opportunity . And if we fail to make the most of this moment and this momentum if we convert our new found hopes and understandings into new walls and weapons of hostility if this . pause in the cold war merely leads to its renewal and not to its end then the indictment of posterity will rightly point its finger at us all . But if we can stretch this pause into a period of cooperation if both sides can now gain new confidence and experience in concrete collaborations for peace if we can now be as bold and farsighted in the control of deadly weapons as we have been in their creation then surely this first small step can be the start of a long and fruitful journey . The task of building the peace lies with the leaders of every nation , large and small . For the great powers have no monopoly on conflict or ambition . The cold war is not the only expression of tension in this world and the nuclear race is not the only arms race . Even little wars are dangerous in a nuclear world . The long labor of peace is an undertaking for every nation and in this effort none of us can remain unaligned . To this goal none can be uncommitted . The reduction of global tension must not be an excuse for the narrow pursuit of self interest . If the Soviet Union and the United States , with all of their global interests and clashing commitments of ideology , and with nuclear weapons still aimed at each other today , can find areas of common interest and agreement , then surely other nations can do the same nations caught in regional conflicts , in racial issues , or in the death throes of old colonialism . Chronic disputes which divert precious resources from the needs of the people or drain the energies of both sides serve the interests of no one and the badge of responsibility in the modern world is a willingness to seek peaceful solutions . It is never too early to try and it is never too late to talk and it is high time that many disputes on the agenda of this Assembly were taken off the debating schedule and placed on the negotiating table . The fact remains that the United States , as a major nuclear power , does have a special responsibility in the world . It is , in fact , a threefold responsibility a responsibility to our own citizens a responsibility to the people of the whole world who are affected by our decisions and to the next generation of humanity . We believe the Soviet Union also has these special responsibilities and that those responsibilities require our two nations to concentrate less on our differences and more on the means of resolving them peacefully . For too long both of us have increased our military budgets , our nuclear stockpiles , and our capacity to destroy all life on this hemisphere human , animal , vegetable without any corresponding increase in our security . Our conflicts , to be sure , are real . Our concepts of the world are different . No service is performed by failing to make clear our disagreements . A central difference is the belief of the American people in self determination for all people . We believe that the people of Germany and Berlin must be free to reunite their capital and their country . We believe that the people of Cuba must be free to secure the fruits of the revolution that have been betrayed from within and exploited from without . In short , we believe that all the world in Eastern Europe as well as Western , in Southern Africa as well as Northern , in old nations as well as new that people must be free to choose their own future , without discrimination or dictation , without coercion or subversion . These are the basic differences between the Soviet Union and the United States , and they cannot be concealed . So long as they exist , they set limits to agreement , and they forbid the relaxation of our vigilance . Our defense around the world will be maintained for the protection of freedom and our determination to safeguard that freedom will measure up to any threat or challenge . But I would say to the leaders of the Soviet Union , and to their people , that if either of our countries is to be fully secure , we need a much better weapon than the H bomb a weapon better than ballistic missiles or nuclear submarines and that better weapon is peaceful cooperation . We have , in recent years , agreed on a limited test ban treaty , on an emergency communications link between our capitals , on a statement of principles for disarmament , on an increase in cultural exchange , on cooperation in outer space , on the peaceful exploration of the Antarctic , and on tempering last year s crisis over Cuba . I believe , therefore , that the Soviet Union and the United States , together with their allies , can achieve further agreements agreements which spring from our mutual interest in avoiding mutual destruction . There can be no doubt about the agenda of further steps . We must continue to seek agreements on measures which prevent war by accident or miscalculation . We must continue to seek agreement on safeguards against surprise attack , including observation posts at key points . We must continue to seek agreement on further measures to curb the nuclear arms race , by controlling the transfer of nuclear weapons , converting fissionable materials to peaceful purposes , and banning underground testing , with adequate inspection and enforcement . We must continue to seek agreement on a freer flow of information and people from East to West and West to East . We must continue to seek agreement , encouraged by yesterday s affirmative response to this proposal by the Soviet Foreign Minister , on an arrangement to keep weapons of mass destruction out of outer space . Let us get our negotiators back to the negotiating table to work out a practicable arrangement to this end . In these and other ways , let us move up the steep and difficult path toward comprehensive disarmament , securing mutual confidence through mutual verification , and building the institutions of peace as we dismantle the engines of war . We must not let failure to agree on all points delay agreements where agreement is possible . And we must not put forward proposals for propaganda purposes . Finally , in a field where the United States and the Soviet Union have a special capacity in the field of space there is room for new cooperation , for further joint efforts in the regulation and exploration of space . I include among these possibilities a joint expedition to the moon . Space offers no problems of sovereignty by resolution of this Assembly , the members of the United Nations have foresworn any claim to territorial rights in outer space or on celestial bodies , and declared that international law and the United Nations Charter will apply . Why , therefore , should man s first flight to the moon be a matter of national competition Why should the United States and the Soviet Union , in preparing for such expeditions , become involved in immense duplications of research , construction , and expenditure Surely we should explore whether the scientists and astronauts of our two countries indeed of all the world cannot work together in the conquest of space , sending some day in this decade to the moon not the respresentatives of a single nation , but the representatives of all of our countries . All these and other new steps toward peaceful cooperation may be possible . Most of them will require on our part full consultation with our allies for their interests are as much involved as our own , and we will not make an agreement at their expense . Most of them will require long and careful negotiation . And most of them will require a new approach to the cold war a desire not to bury one s adversary , but to compete in a host of peaceful arenas , in ideas , in production , and ultimately in service to all mankind . The contest will continue the contest between those who see a monolithic world and those who believe in diversity but it should be a contest in leadership and responsibility instead of destruction , a contest in achievement instead of intimidation . Speaking for the United States of America , I welcome such a contest . For we believe that truth is stronger than error and that freedom is more enduring than coercion . And in the contest for a better life , all the world can be a winner . The effort to improve the conditions of man , however , is not a task for the few . It is the task of all nations acting alone , acting in groups , acting in the United Nations , for plague and pestilence , and plunder and pollution , the hazards of nature , and the hunger of children are the foes of every nation . The earth , the sea , and the air are the concern of every nation . And science , technology , and education can be the ally of every nation . Never before has man had such capacity to control his own environment , to end thirst and hunger , to conquer poverty and disease , to banish illiteracy and massive human misery . We have the power to make this the best generation of mankind in the history of the world or to make it the last . The United States since the close of the war has sent over 100 billion worth of assistance to nations seeking economic viability . And 2 years ago this week we formed a Peace Corps to help interested nations meet the demand for trained manpower . Other industrialized nations whose economies were rebuilt not so long ago with some help from us are now in turn recognizing their responsibility to the less developed nations . The provision of development assistance by individual nations must go on . But the United Nations also must play a larger role in helping bring to all men the fruits of modern science and industry . A United Nations conference on this subject he d earlier this year at Geneva opened new vistas for the developing countries . Next year a United Nations Conference on Trade will consider the needs of these nations for new markets . And more than four fifths of the entire United Nations system can be found today mobilizing the weapons of science and technology for the United Nations Decade of Development . But more can be done . A world center for health communications under the World Health Organization could warn of epidemics and the adverse effects of certain drugs as well as transmit the results of new experiments and new discoveries . Regional research centers could advance our common medical knowledge and train new scientists and doctors for new nations . A global system of satellites could provide communication and weather information for all corners of the earth . A worldwide program of conservation could protect the forest and wild game preserves now in danger of extinction for all time , improve the marine harvest of food from our oceans , and prevent the contamination of air and water by industrial as well as nuclear pollution . And , finally , a worldwide program of farm productivity and food distribution , similar to our country s Food for Peace program , could now give every child the food he needs . But man does not live by bread alone and the members of this organization are committed by the Charter to promote and respect human rights . Those rights are not respected when a Buddhist priest is driven from his pagoda , when a synagogue is shut down , when a Protestant church cannot open a mission , when a Cardinal is forced into hiding , or when a crowded church service is bombed . The United States of America is opposed to discrimination and persecution on grounds of race and religion anywhere in the world , including our own Nation . We are working to right the wrongs of our own country . Through legislation and administrative action , through moral and legal commitment , this Government has launched a determined effort to rid our Nation of discrimination which has existed far too longin education , in housing , in transportation , in employment , in the civil service , in recreation , and in places of public accommodation . And therefore , in this or any other forum , we do not hesitate to condemn racial or religious injustice , whether committed or permitted by friend or foe . I know that some of you have experienced discrimination in this country . But I ask you to believe me when I tell you that this is not the wish of most Americans that we share your regret and resentment and that we intend to end such practices for all time to come , not only for our visitors , but for our own citizens as well . I hope that not only our Nation but all other multiracial societies will meet these standards of fairness and justice . We are opposed to apartheid and all forms of human oppression . We do not advocate the rights of black Africans in order to drive out white Africans . Our concern is the right of all men to equal protection under the law and since human rights are indivisible , this body cannot stand aside when those rights are abused and neglected by any member state . New efforts are needed if this Assembly s Declaration of Human Rights , now 15 years old , is to have full meaning . And new means should be found for promoting the free expression and trade of ideas through travel and communication , and through increased exchanges of people , and books , and broadcasts . For as the world renounces the competition of weapons , competition in ideas must flourish and that competition must be as full and as fair as possible . The United States delegation will be prepared to suggest to the United Nations initiatives in the pursuit of all the goals . For this is an organization for peace and peace cannot come without work and without progress . The peacekeeping record of the United Nations has been a proud one , though its tasks are always formidable . We are fortunate to have the skills of our distinguished Secretary General and the brave efforts of those who have been serving the cause of peace in the Congo , in the Middle East , in Korea and Kashmir , in West New Guinea and Malaysia . But what the United Nations has done in the past is less important than the tasks for the future . We cannot take its peacekeeping machinery for granted . That machinery must be soundly financed which it cannot be if some members are allowed to prevent it from meeting its obligations by failing to meet their own . The United Nations must be supported by all those who exercise their franchise here . And its operations must be backed to the end . Too often a project is undertaken in the excitement of a crisis and then it begins to lose its appeal as the problems drag on and the bills pile up . But we must have the steadfastness to see every enterprise through . It is , for example , most important not to jeopardize the extraordinary United Nations gains in the Congo . The nation which sought this organization s help only 3 years ago has now asked the United Nations presence to remain a little longer . I believe this Assembly should do what is necessary to preserve the gains already made and to protect the new nation in its struggle for progress . Let us complete what we have started . For No man who puts his hand to the plow and looks back , as the Scriptures tell us , No man who puts his hand to the plow and looks back is fit for the Kingdom of God . I also hope that the recent initiative of several members in preparing standby peace forces for United Nations call will encourage similar commitments by others . This Nation remains ready to provide logistic and other material support . Policing , moreover , is not enough without provision for pacific settlement . We should increase the resort to special missions of factfinding and conciliation , make greater use of the International Court of Justice , and accelerate the work of the International Law Commission . The United Nations cannot survive as a static organization . Its obligations are increasing as well as its size . Its Charter must be changed as well as its customs . The authors of that Charter did not intend that it be frozen in perpetuity . The science of weapons and war has made us all , far more than 18 years ago in San Francisco , one world and one human race , with one common destiny . In such a world , absolute sovereignty no longer assures us of absolute security . The conventions of peace must pull abreast and then ahead of the inventions of war . The United Nations , building on its successes and learning from its failures , must be developed into a genuine world security system . But peace does not rest in charters and covenants alone . It lies in the hearts and minds of all people . And if it is east out there , then no act , no pact , no treaty , no organization can hope to preserve it without the support and the wholehearted commitment of all people . So let us not rest all our hopes on parchment and on paper let us strive to build peace , a desire for peace , a willingness to work for peace , in the hearts and minds of all of our people . I believe that we can . I believe the problems of human destiny are not beyond the reach of human beings . Two years ago I told this body that the United States had proposed , and was willing to sign , a limited test ban treaty . Today that treaty has been signed . It will not put an end to war . It will not remove basic conflicts . It will not secure freedom for all . But it can be a lever , and Archimedes , in explaining the principles of the lever , was said to have declared to his friends Give me a place where I can stand and I shall move the world . My fellow inhabitants of this planet Let us take our stand here in this Assembly of nations . And let us see if we , in our own time , can move the world to a just and lasting peace .<speech_sep>President , Governor Brown , Pauley , Chancellor , members of the Board of Regents , members of the faculty and fellow students , ladies and gentlemen The last time that I came to this Stadium was 22 years ago , when I visited it in November of 1940 as a student at a nearby small school for the game with Stanford . And we got a I must say I had a much warmer reception today than I did from my Coast friends here on that occasion . In those days we used to fill these universities for football , and now we do it for academic events , and I am not sure that this does not represent a rather dangerous trend for the future of our country . I am delighted to be here on this occasion for though it is the 94th anniversary of the Charter , in a sense this is the hundredth anniversary . For this university and so many other universities across our country owe their birth to the most extraordinary piece of legislation which this country has ever adopted , and that is the Morrill Act , signed by President Abraham Lincoln in the darkest and most uncertain days of the Civil War , which set before the country the opportunity to build the great land grant colleges , of which this is so distinguished a part . Six years later , this university obtained its Charter . In its first graduating class it included a future Governor of California , a future Congressman , a judge , a State assemblyman , a clergyman , a lawyer , a doctor all in a graduating class of 12 students This college , therefore , from its earliest beginnings , has recognized , and its graduates have recognized , that the purpose of education is not merely to advance the economic self interest of its graduates . The people of California , as much if not more than the people of any other State , have supported their colleges and their universities and their schools , because they recognize how important it is to the maintenance of a free society that its citizens be well educated . Every man , said Professor Woodrow Wilson , sent out from a university should be a man of his nation as well as a man of his time . And Prince Bismarck was even more specific . One third , he said , of the students of German universities broke down from overwork , another third broke down from dissipation , and the other third ruled Germany . I do not know which third of students are here today , but I am confident that I am talking to the future leaders of this State and country who recognize their responsibilities to the public interest . Today you carry on that tradition . Our distinguished and courageous Secretary of Defense , our distinguished Secretary of State , the Chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission , the Director of the CIA and others , all are graduates of this University . It is a disturbing fact to me , and it may be to some of you , that the New frontier owes as much to Berkeley as it does to Harvard University . This has been a week of momentous events around the world . The long and painful struggle in Algeria which comes to an end . Both nuclear powers and neutrals labored at Geneva for a solution to the problem of a spiraling arms race , and also to the problems that so vex our relations with the Soviet Union . The Congress opened hearings on a trade bill , which is far more than a trade bill , but an opportunity to build a stronger and closer Atlantic Community . And my wife had her first and last ride on an elephant But history may well remember this as a week for an act of lesser immediate impact , and that is the decision by the United States and the Soviet Union to seek concrete agreements on the joint exploration of space . Experience has taught us that an agreement to negotiate does not always mean a negotiated agreement . But should such a joint effort be realized , its significance could well be tremendous for us all . In terms of space science , our combined knowledge and efforts can benefit the people of all the nations joint weather satellites to provide more ample warnings against destructive storms joint communications systems to draw the world more closely together and cooperation in space medicine research and space tracking operations to speed the day when man will go to the moon and beyond . But the scientific gains from such a joint effort would offer , I believe , less realized return than the gains for world peace . For a cooperative Soviet American effort in space science and exploration would emphasize the interests that must unite us , rather than those that always divide us . It offers us an area in which the stale and sterile dogmas of the cold war could be literally left a quarter of a million miles behind . And it would remind us on both sides that knowledge , not hate , is the passkey to the future that knowledge transcends national antagonisms that it speaks a universal language that it is the possession , not of a single class , or of a single nation or a single ideology , but of all mankind . I need hardly emphasize the happy pursuit of knowledge in this place . Your faculty includes more Nobel laureates than any other faculty in the world more in this one community than our principal adversary has received since the awards began in 1901 . And we take pride in that , only from a national point of view , because it indicates , as the Chancellor pointed out , the great intellectual benefits of a free society . This University of California will continue to grow as an intellectual center because your presidents and your chancellors and your professors have rigorously defended that unhampered freedom of discussion and inquiry which is the soul of the intellectual enterprise and the heart of a free university . We may be proud as a nation of our record in scientific achievement but at the same time we must be impressed by the interdependence of all knowledge . I am certain that every scholar and scientist here today would agree that his own work has benefited immeasurably from the work of the men and women in other countries . The prospect of a partnership with Soviet scientists in the exploration of space opens up exciting prospects of collaboration in other areas of learning . And cooperation in the pursuit of knowledge can hopefully lead to cooperation in the pursuit of peace . Yet the pursuit of knowledge itself implies a world where men are free to follow out the logic of their own ideas . It implies a world where nations are free to solve their own problems and to realize their own ideals . It implies , in short , a world where collaboration emerges from the voluntary decisions of nations strong in their own independence and their own self respect . It implies , I believe , the kind of world which is emerging before our eyes the world produced by the revolution of national independence which has today , and has been since 1945 , sweeping across the face of the world . I sometimes think that we are too much impressed by the clamor of daily events . The newspaper headlines and the television screens give us a short view . They so flood us with the stop press details of daily stories that we lose sight of one of the great movements of history . Yet it is the profound tendencies of history and not the passing excitements , that will shape our future . The short view gives us the impression as a nation of being shoved and harried , everywhere on the defense . But this impression is surely an optical illusion . From the perspective of Moscow , the world today may seem ever more troublesome , more intractable , more frustrating than it does to us . The leaders of the Communist world are confronted not only by acute internal problems in each Communist country the failure of agriculture , the rising discontent of the youth and the intellectuals , the demands of technical and managerial groups for status and security . They are confronted in addition by profound divisions within the Communist world itself divisions which have already shattered the image of Communism as a universal system guaranteed to abolish all social and international conflicts the most valuable asset the Communists had for many years . Wisdom requires the long view . And the long view shows us that the revolution of national independence is a fundamental fact of our era . This revolution will not be stopped . As new nations emerge from the oblivion of centuries , their first aspiration is to affirm their national identity . Their deepest hope is for a world where , within a framework of international cooperation , every country can solve its own problems according to its own traditions and ideals . It is in the interests of the pursuit of . knowledge and it is in our own national interest that this revolution of national independence succeed . For the Communists rest everything on the idea of a monolithic world a world where all knowledge has a single pattern , all societies move toward a single model , and all problems and roads have a single solution and a single destination . The pursuit of knowledge , on the other hand , rests everything on the opposite idea on the idea of a world based on diversity , self determination , freedom . And that is the kind of world to which we Americans , as a nation , are committed by the principles upon which the great Republic was founded . As men conduct the pursuit of knowledge , they create a world which freely unites national diversity and international partnership . This emerging world is incompatible with the Communist world order . It will irresistibly burst the bonds of the Communist organization and the Communist ideology . And diversity and independence , far from being opposed to the American conception of world order , represent the very essence of our view of the future of the world . There used to be so much talk a few years ago about the inevitable triumph of communism . We hear such talk much less now . No one who examines the modern world can doubt that the great currents of history are carrying the world away from the monolithic idea towards the pluralistic idea away from communism and towards national independence and freedom . No one can doubt that the wave of the future is not the conquest of the world by a single dogmatic creed but the liberation of the diverse energies of free nations and free men . No one can doubt that cooperation in the pursuit of knowledge must lead to freedom of the mind and freedom of the soul . Beyond the drumfire of daily crisis , therefore , there is arising the outlines of a robust and vital world community , founded on nations secure in their own independence , and united by allegiance to world peace . It would be foolish to say that this world will be won tomorrow , or the day after . The processes of history are fitful and uncertain and aggravating . There will be frustrations and setbacks . There will be times of anxiety and gloom . The specter of thermonuclear war will continue to hang over mankind and we must heed the advice of Oliver Wendell Holmes of freedom leaning on her spear until all nations are wise enough to disarm safely and effectively . Yet we can have a new confidence today in the direction in which history is moving . Nothing is more stirring than the recognition of great public purpose . Every great age is marked by innovation and daring by the ability to meet unprecedented problems with intelligent solutions . In a time of turbulence and change , it is more true than ever that knowledge is power for only by true understanding and steadfast judgment are we able to master the challenge of history . If this is so , we must strive to acquire knowledge and to apply it with wisdom . We must reject over simplified theories of international life the theory that American power is unlimited , or that the American mission is to remake the world in the American image . We must seize the vision of a free and diverse world and shape our policies to speed progress toward a more flexible world order . This is the unifying spirit of our policies in the world today . The purpose of our aid programs must be to help developing countries move forward as rapidly as possible on the road to genuine national independence . Our military policies must assist nations to protect the processes of democratic reform and development against disruption and intervention . Our diplomatic policies must strengthen our relations with the whole world , with our several alliances and within the United Nations . As we press forward on every front to realize a flexible world order , the role of the university becomes ever more important , both as a reservoir of ideas and as a repository of the long view of the shore dimly seen . Knowledge is the great sun of the firmament , said Senator Daniel Webster . Life and power are scattered with all its beams . In its light , we must think and act not only for the moment but for our time . I am reminded of the story of the great French Marshal Lyautey , who once asked his gardener to plant a tree . The gardener objected that the tree was slow growing and would not reach maturity for a hundred years . The Marshal replied , In that case , there is no time to lose , plant it this afternoon . Today a world of knowledge a world of cooperation a just and lasting peace may be years away . But we have no time to lose . Let us plant our trees this afternoon .<speech_sep>To the Congress of the United States A strong and sound Federal tax system is essential to America s future . Without such a system , we cannot maintain our defenses and give leadership to the free world . Without such a system , we cannot render the public services necessary for enriching the lives of our people and furthering the growth of our economy . The tax system must be adequate to meet our public needs . It must meet them fairly , calling on each of us to contribute his proper share to the cost of government . It must encourage efficient use of our resources . It must promote economic stability and stimulate economic growth . Economic expansion in turn creates a growing tax base , thus increasing revenue and thereby enabling us to meet more readily our public needs , as well as our needs as private individuals . A strong and sound Federal tax system is essential to America s future . Without such a system , we cannot maintain our defenses and give leadership to the free world . Without such a system , we cannot render the public services necessary for enriching the lives of our people and furthering the growth of our economy . The tax system must be adequate to meet our public needs . It must meet them fairly , calling on each of us to contribute his proper share to the cost of government . It must encourage efficient use of our resources . It must promote economic stability and stimulate economic growth . Economic expansion in turn creates a growing tax base , thus increasing revenue and thereby enabling us to meet more readily our public needs , as well as our needs as private individuals . This message recognizes the basic soundness of our tax structure . But it also recognizes the changing needs and standards of our economic and international position , and the constructive reform needs to keep our tax system up to date and to maintain its equity . Previous messages have emphasized the need for prompt Congressional and Executive action to alleviate the deficit in our international balance of payments to increase the modernization , productivity and competitive status of American industry to stimulate the expansion and growth of our economy to eliminate to the extent possible economic injustice within our own society and to maintain the level of revenues requested in my predecessor s Budget . In each of these endeavors , tax policy has an important role to play and necessary tax changes are herein proposed . The elimination of certain defects and inequities as proposed below will provide revenue gains to offset the tax reductions offered to stimulate the economy . Thus no net loss of revenue is involved in this set of proposals . I wish to emphasize here that they are a set and that considerations of both revenue and equity , as well as the interrelationship of many of the proposals , urge their consideration as a unit . I am instructing the Secretary of the Treasury to furnish the Committee on Ways and Means of the House a detailed explanation of these proposals in connection with their legislative consideration . LONG RANGE TAX REFORMWhile it is essential that the Congress receive at this time this Administration s proposals for urgent and obvious tax adjustments needed to fulfill the aims listed above , time has not permitted the comprehensive review necessary for a tax structure which is so complicated and so critically important to so many people . This message is but a first though urgent step along the road to constructive reform . I am directing the Secretary of the Treasury , building on recent tax studies of the Congress , to undertake the research and preparation of a comprehensive tax reform program to be placed before the next session of the Congress . Progressing from these studies , particularly those of the Committee on Ways and Means and the Joint Economic Committee , the program should be aimed at providing a broader and more uniform tax base , together with an appropriate rate structure . We can thereby work toward the goal of a higher rate of economic growth , a more equitable tax structure , and a simpler tax law . I know these objectives are shared by and , at this particular time of year , acutely desired by the vast majority of the American people . In meeting the demands of war finance , the individual income tax moved from a selective tax imposed on the wealthy to the means by which the great majority of our citizens participates in paying for well over one half of our total budget receipts . It is supplemented by the corporation income tax , which provides for another quarter of the total . This emphasis on income taxation has been a sound development . But so many taxpayers have become so preoccupied with so many tax saving devices that business decisions are interfered with , and the efficient functioning of the price system is distorted . Moreover , special provisions have developed into an increasing source of preferential treatment to various groups . Whenever one taxpayer is permitted to pay less , someone else must be asked to pay more . The uniform distribution of the tax burden is thereby disturbed and higher rates are made necessary by the narrowing of the tax base . Of course , some departures from uniformity are needed to promote desirable social or economic objectives of overriding importance which can be achieved most effectively through the tax mechanism . But many of the preferences which have developed do not meet such a test and need to be reevaluated in our tax reform program . It will be a major aim of our tax reform program to reverse this process , by broadening the tax base and reconsidering the rate structure . The result should be a tax system that is more equitable , more efficient and more conducive to economic growth . ITAX INCENTIVE FOR MODERNIZATION AND EXPANSIONThe history of our economy has been one of rising productivity , based on improvement in skills , advances in technology , and a growing supply of more efficient tools and equipment . This rise has been reflected in rising wages and standards of living for our workers , as well as a healthy rate of growth for the economy as a whole . It has also been the foundation of our leadership in world markets , even as we enjoyed the highest wage rates in the world . Today , as we face serious pressure on our balance of payments position , we must give special attention to the modernization of our plant and equipment . Forced to reconstruct after wartime devastation , our friends abroad now possess a modern industrial system helping to make them formidable competitors in world markets . If our own goods are to compete with foreign goods in price and quality , both at home and abroad , we shall need the most efficient plant and equipment . At the same time , to meet the needs of a growing population and labor force , and to achieve a rising per capita income and employment level , we need a high and rising level of both private and public capital formation . In my preceding messages , I have proposed programs to meet some of our needs for such capital formation in the public area , including investment in intangible capital such as education and research , as well as investment in physical capital such as buildings and highways . I am now proposing additional incentives for the modernization and expansion of private plant and equipment . Inevitably , capital expansion and modernization now frequently under the name of automation alter established modes of production . Great benefits result and are distributed widely but some hardships result as well . This places heavy responsibilities on public policy , not to retard modernization and capital expansion but to promote growth and ameliorate hardships when they do occur to maintain a high level of demand and employment , so that those who are displaced will be reabsorbed quickly into new positions and to assist in retraining and finding new jobs for such displaced workers . We are developing , through such measures as the Area Redevelopment Bill and a strengthened Employment Service , as well as assistance to the unemployed , the programs designed to achieve these objectives . High capital formation can be sustained only by a high and rising level of demand for goods and service . Indeed , the investment incentive itself can contribute materially to achieving the prosperous economy under which this incentive will make its maximum contribution to economic growth . Rather than delaying its adoption until all excess capacity has disappeared and unemployment is low , we should take this step now to strengthen our anti recession program , stimulate employment and increase our export markets . Additional expenditures on plant and equipment will immediately create more jobs in the construction , lumber , steel , cement , machinery and other related capital goods industries . The staffing of these new plants and filling the orders for new export markets will require additional employees . The additional wages of these workers will help create still more jobs in consumer goods and service industries . The increase in jobs resulting from a full year s operation of such an incentive is estimated at about half a million . Specifically , therefore , I recommend enactment of an investment tax incentive in the form of a tax credit of 15 of all new plant and equipment investment expenditures in excess of current depreciation allowances 6 of such expenditures below this level but in excess of 50 of depreciation allowances with 10 on the first 5 , 000 of new investment as a minimum credit . This credit would be taken as an offset against the firm s tax liability , up to an overall limitation of 30 in the reduction of that liability in any one year . It would be separate from and in addition to depreciation of the eligible new investment at cost . It would be available to individually owned businesses as well as corporate enterprises , and apply to eligible investment expenditures made after January 1 of this year . To remain a real incentive and make a maximum contribution to those areas of capital expansion and modernization where it is most needed , and to permit efficient administration , eligible investment expenditures would be limited to expenditures on new plant and equipment , on assets located in . the United States , and on assets with a life of six years or more . Investments by public utilities other than transportation would be excluded , as would be investment in residential construction including apartments and hotels . Of the eligible firms , it is expected that many small firms would be able to take advantage of the minimum credit of 10 on the first 5000 of new investment which is designed to provide a helpful stimulus to the many small businesses in need of modernization . Other small firms , subject to a 30 tax rate , would strive to be eligible for the full 15 credit the equivalent for such firms of a deduction from their gross income for tax purposes of 50 of the cost of new investment . Among the remaining firms , it is expected that a majority would be induced to make new investments in modern plant and equipment in excess of their depreciation in order to earn the 15 credit . New and growing firms would be particularly benefited . The 6 credit for those whose new investment expenditures fall between 50 and 100 of their depreciation allowances is designed to afford some substantial incentive to the depressed or hesitant firm which knows it cannot yet achieve the 15 credit . In arriving at this form of tax encouragement to investment , careful consideration was given to other alternatives . If the credit were given across the board to all new investment , a much larger revenue loss would result from those expenditures which would have been undertaken anyway or represent no new level of effort . Our objective is to provide the largest possible inducement to new investment which would not otherwise be undertaken . Thus the plan recommended above would involve the same revenue loss approximately 1 . 7 billion as only a 7 percent credit across the board to all new investment . The use of current depreciation allowances as the threshold above which the higher rate of credit would apply recommends itself for a number of reasons . Depreciation reflects the average level of investment over the past , but is a less restrictive and more stable test than the use of an average of investment expenditures for a period such as the preceding five years . In addition , the depreciation allowances themselves in effect supply tax free funds for investment up to this level . We now propose a tax credit which would help to secure funds needed for the additional investment beyond that level . The proposed credit , in terms of the revenue loss involved , will also be much more effective as an inducement to investment than an outright reduction in the rate of corporation income tax . Its benefits would be distributed more broadly , since the proposed credit will apply to individuals and partnerships as well as corporations . It will also be more effective as a direct incentive to corporate investment , and increase available funds more specifically in those corporations most likely to use them for additional investment . In short , whereas the credit will have the advantage of focusing on the profitability of new investment , much of the revenue loss under a general corporate rate reduction would be diverted into raising the profitability of old investment . It is true that this advantage of focusing entirely on new investment is shared by the alternative strongly urged by some a tax change permitting more rapid depreciation of new assets . But the proposed investment credit would be superior , in my view , for a number of reasons . In the first place , the determination of the length of an asset s life and proper methods of depreciation have a normal and important function in determining taxable income , wholly apart from any considerations of incentive and they should not be altered or manipulated for other purposes that would interfere with this function . It may be that on examination some of the existing depreciation rules will be found to be outmoded and inequitable but that is a question that should be separated from investment incentives . A review of these rules and methods is underway in the Treasury Department as a part of its overall tax reform study to determine whether changes are appropriate and , if so , what form they should take . Adoption of the proposed incentive credit would in no way foreclose later action on these aspects of depreciation . In the second place , an increase in tax depreciation tends to be recorded in the firm s accounts , thereby raising current costs and acting as a deterrent to price reduction . The proposed investment credit would not share this defect . Finally , it is clear that the tax credit would be more effective in inducing new investment for the same revenue loss . The entire credit would be reflected immediately in the increased funds available for investment without increasing the company s future tax liability . A speed up in depreciation only postpones the timing of the tax liability on profits from the investment to a later date an increase in profitability not comparable to that of an outright tax credit . Yet accelerated depreciation is much more costly in immediate revenues . For example , on an average investment , a tax credit of 15 would bring the same return to the firm as an additional first year depreciation of over 50 of the cost of the investment . Yet the immediate revenue loss to the Treasury from such additional depreciation would be twice as much , and would remain considerably higher for many years . The incentive to new investment our economy needs , and which this recommendation would provide at a revenue loss of 1 . 7 billion , could be supplied by an initial write off only at an immediate cost of 3 . 4 billion . I believe this investment tax credit will become a useful and continuous part of our tax structure . But it will be a new venture and remain in need of review . Moreover , it may prove desirable for the Congress to modify the credit from time to time , so as to adapt it to the needs of a changing economy . I strongly urge its adoption in this session . IITAX TREATMENT OF FOREIGN INCOMEChanging economic conditions at home and abroad , the desire to achieve greater equity in taxation , and the strains which have developed in our balance of payments position in the last few years , compel us to examine critically certain features of our tax system which , in conjunction with the tax system of other countries , consistently favor United States private investment abroad compared with investment in our own economy . 1 . Elimination of tax deferral privileges in developed countries and tax haven deferral privileges in all countries . Profits earned abroad by American firms operating through foreign subsidiaries are , under present tax laws , subject to United States tax only when they are returned to the parent company in the form of dividends . In some cases , this tax deferral has made possible indefinite postponement of the United States tax and , in those countries where income taxes are lower than in the United States , the ability to defer the payment of tax by retaining income in the subsidiary companies provides a tax advantage for companies operating through overseas subsidiaries that is not available to companies operating solely in the United States . Many American investors properly made use of this deferral in the conduct of their foreign investment . Though changing conditions now make continuance of the privilege undesirable , such change of policy implies no criticism of the investors who so utilize this privilege . The undesirability of continuing deferral is underscored where deferral has served as a shelter for tax escape through the unjustifiable use of tax havens such as Switzerland . Recently more and more enterprises organized abroad by American firms have arranged their corporate structures aided by artificial arrangements between parent and subsidiary regarding intercompany pricing , the transfer of patent licensing rights , the shifting of management fees , and similar practices which maximize the accumulation of profits in the tax haven so as to exploit the multiplicity of foreign tax systems and international agreements in order to reduce sharply or eliminate completely their tax liabilities both at home and abroad . To the extent that these tax havens and other tax deferral privileges result in firms investing or locating abroad largely for tax reasons , the efficient allocation of international resources is upset , the initial drain on our already adverse balance of payments is never fully compensated , and profits are retained and reinvested abroad which would otherwise be invested in the United States . Certainly since the postwar reconstruction of Europe and Japan has been completed , there are no longer foreign policy reasons for providing tax incentives for foreign investment in the economically advanced countries . If we are seeking to curb tax havens , if we recognize that the stimulus of tax deferral is no longer needed for investment in the developed countries , and if we are to emphasize investment in this country in order to stimulate our economy and our plant modernization , as well as ease our balance of payments deficit , we can no longer afford existing tax treatment of foreign income . I therefore recommend that legislation be adopted which would , after a two step transitional period , tax each year American corporations on their current share of the undistributed profits realized in that year by subsidiary corporations organized in economically advanced countries . This current taxation would also apply to individual shareholders of closely held corporations in those countries . Since income taxes paid abroad are properly a credit against the United States income tax , this would subject the income from such business activities to essentially the same tax rates as business activities conducted in the United States . To permit firms to adjust their operations to this change , I also recommend that this result be achieved in equal steps over a two year period , under which only one half of the profits would be affected during 1962 . Where the foreign taxes paid have been close to the rates , the impact of this change would be small . This proposal will maintain United States investment in the developed countries at the level justified by market forces . American enterprise abroad will continue to compete with foreign firms . With their access to capital markets at home and abroad , their advanced technical know how , their energy , resourcefulness and many other advantages , American firms will continue to occupy their rightful place in the markets of the world . While the rate of expansion of some American business operations abroad may be reduced through the withdrawal of tax deferral such reduction would be consistent with the efficient distribution of capital resources in the world , our balance of payments needs , and fairness to competing firms located in our own country . At the same time , I recommend that tax deferral be continued for income from investment in the developing economies . The free world has a strong obligation to assist in the development of these economies , and private investment has an important contribution to make . Continued income tax deferral for these areas will be helpful in this respect . In addition , the proposed elimination of income tax deferral on United States earnings in industrialized countries should enhance the relative attraction of investment in the less developed countries . On the other hand , I recommend elimination of the tax haven device anywhere in the world , even in the underdeveloped countries , through the elimination of tax deferral privileges for those forms of activities , such as trading , licensing , insurance and others , that typically seek out tax haven methods of operation . There is no valid reason to permit their remaining untaxed regardless of the country in which they are located . 2 . Taxation of Foreign Investment Companies . For some years now we have witnessed substantial outflows of capital from the United States into investment companies created abroad whose principal justification lies in the tax benefits which their method of operation produces . I recommend that these tax benefits be removed and that income derived through such foreign investment companies be treated in substantially the same way as income from domestic investment companies . 3 . Taxation of American Citizens Abroad . It is no more justifiable to provide tax exemptions for individuals living in the developed countries than it is to provide tax inducements for capital investment there . Nor should we permit totally unjustified tax benefits to be obtained by those Americans whose choice of residence is dictated primarily by their desire to minimize taxes . therefore , recommend that the total tax exemption now accorded the earned income of American citizens residing abroad be completely terminated for those residing in economically advanced countries that this exemption for earned income be limited to 20 , 000 for those residing in the less developed countries and that the exemption of 20 , 000 of earned income now accorded those citizens who stay abroad for 17 out of 18 months also be completely terminated for those living or traveling in the economically advanced countries . 4 . Estate Tax on Property Located Abroad . I recommend that the exclusion from the estate tax accorded real property situated abroad be terminated . With the adoption several years ago of the credit for foreign taxes under the estate tax , there is no justification for the continued exemption of such property . 5 . Allowance for Foreign Tax on Dividends . Finally , the method by which the credit for foreign income taxes is computed in the case of dividends involves a double allowance for foreign income taxes and should be corrected . These proposals , along with more detailed and technical changes needed to improve the taxation of foreign income , are expected to reduce substantially our balance of payments deficit and to increase revenues by at least 250 million per year . ICORRECTION OF OTHER STRUCTURAL DEFECTSI next recommend a number of measures to remove other serious defects in the income tax structure . These changes , while making a beginning toward the comprehensive tax reform program mentioned above , will provide sufficient revenue gains to offset the cost of the investment tax credit and keep the revenue producing potential of our tax structure intact . 1 . Withholding on Interest and Dividends . Our system of combined withholding and voluntary reporting on wages and salaries under the individual income tax has served us well . Introduced during the war when the income tax was extended to millions of new taxpayers , the wage withholding system has been one of the most important and successful advances in our tax system in recent times . Initial difficulties were quickly overcome , and the new system helped the taxpayer no less than the tax collector . It is the more unfortunate , therefore , that the application of the withholding principle has remained incomplete . Withholding does not apply to dividends and interest , with the result that substantial amounts of such income , particularly interest , improperly escape taxation . It is estimated that about 3 billion of taxable interest and dividends are unreported each year . This is patently unfair to those who must as a result bear a larger share of the tax burden . Re cipients of dividends and interest should pay their tax no less than those who receive wage and salary income , and the tax should be paid just as promptly . Large continued avoidance of tax on the part of some has a steadily demoralizing effect on the compliance of others . This gap in reporting has not been appreciably lessened by educational programs . Nor can it be effectively closed by intensified enforcement measures , except by the expenditure of inordinate amounts of time and money . Withholding on corporate dividends and on investment type interest , such as interest paid on taxable government and corporate securities and savings accounts , is both necessary and practicable . therefore , recommend the enactment of legislation to provide for a 20 withholding rate on corporate dividends and taxable investment type interest , effective January 1 , 1962 , under a system which would not require the preparation of withholding statements to be sent to recipients . It would thus place a relatively light burden of compliance on the payers of interest and dividends certainly less than that placed on payers of wages and salaries while at the same time largely solving the compliance problem for most of the taxpayers receiving dividends and interest . Steps will also be taken to avoid hardships for recipients who are not subject to tax . The remaining need for compliance , largely in the high income group subject to a higher tax rate , would be met through the concentration of enforcement devices on taxpayers in these brackets . Introduction of equipment for the automatic processing of information returns would be especially helpful for this purpose and would thus supplement the extension of withholding . Enactment of this proposal is estimated to increase revenue by 600 million per year . 2 . Repeal of the Dividend Credit and Exclusion . The present law provides for an exclusion from income of the first 50 of dividends received from domestic corporations and for a 4 credit against tax of such dividend income in excess of 50 . These provisions were enacted in 1954 . Proponents argued that they would encourage capital formation through equity investment , and that they would provide a partial offset to the so called double taxation of dividend income . It is now clear that they serve neither purpose well and therefore , recommend the repeal of both the dividend credit and exclusion . The dividend credit and exclusion are not an efficient stimulus to capital expansion in the form of plant and equipment . The revenue losses resulting from these provisions are spread over a large volume of outstanding shares rather than being concentrated on new shares and the stimulating effects of the provisions are thus greatly diluted , resulting in relatively little increases in the supply of equity funds and a relatively slight reduction in the cost of equity financing . In fact , such reduction as does occur is more likely to benefit large corporations with easy access to the capital market , while being of little use to small firms which are not so favorably situated . Insofar as raising the profitability of new investment in plant and equipment is concerned , the tax investment credit proposed above would be far more effective since it is offered to the corporation , where the actual investment decision is made . The dividend credit and exclusion are equally inadequate as a solution to the so called problem of double taxation . Whatever may be the merits of the arguments respecting the existence of double taxation , the provisions of the 1954 Act clearly do not offer an appropriate remedy . They greatly overcompensate the dividend recipient in the high income bracket , while giving either insufficient or no relief to shareholders with smaller income . This point deserves emphasis . For viewed simply as a means of tax reduction , the dividend credit is . wholly inequitable . The distribution of its benefits is highly favorable to the taxpayers in the upper income groups who receive the major part of dividend income . Only about 10 percent of dividend income accrues to those with incomes below 5 , 000 about 80 percent of it accrues to that 6 . 5 of taxpayers whose incomes exceed 10 , 000 a year . Similarly , dividend income is a sharply rising fraction of total income as we move up the income scale . Thus , dividend income is about 1 percent of all income from all sources for those taxpayers with incomes of 3 , 000 to 5 , 000 but it constitutes more than 25 percent of the income for those with 100 , 000 to 150 , 000 of income , and about 50 percent for those with incomes over 1 , 000 , 000 , The role of the dividend credit should not be confused with the broader question of tax rates applicable to high incomes . These high rates deserve re examination and this is one of the problems which will be examined in the context of next year s tax reform . But if top bracket rates were to be reduced , the dividend credit is not the way to do it . Rate reductions , if appropriate , should apply no less to those with high incomes from other sources , such as professional and salaried people whose tax position is particularly difficult today . If the credit is eliminated , the 50 exclusion should also be discarded for similar reasons . The tax saving from the exclusion is substantially greater for a dividend recipient with a high income than for a recipient with low income . Moreover , on equity grounds , there is no reason for giving tax reduction to that small fraction of low income tax payers who receive dividends in contrast to those who must live on wages , interest , rents or other forms of income . The 1954 formula therefore is a dead end and should be rescinded , effective December 31 of this year . The estimated revenue gain is 450 million per year . 3 . Expense Accounts . In recent years widespread abuses have developed through the use of the expense account . Too many firms and individuals have devised means of deducting too many personal living expenses as business expenses , thereby charging a large part of their cost to the Federal Government . Indeed , expense account living has become a byword in the American scene . This is a matter of national concern , affecting not only our public revenues , our sense of fairness , and our respect for the tax system , but our moral and business practices as well . This widespread distortion of our business and social structure is largely a creature of the tax system , and the time has come when our tax laws should cease their encouragement of luxury spending as a charge on the Federal treasury . The slogan It is deductible should pass from our scene . Tighter enforcement of present legislation will not suffice . Even though in some instances entertainment and related expenses have an association with the needs of business , they nevertheless confer substantial tax free personal benefits to the recipients . In other cases , deductions are obtained by disguising personal expenses as business outlays . But under present law , it is extremely difficult to separate out and disallow such pseudo business expenditures . New legislation is needed to deal with the problem . therefore , recommend that the cost of such business entertainment and the maintenance of entertainment facilities be disallowed in full as a tax deduction and that restrictions be imposed on the deductibility of business gifts , expenses of business trips combined with vacations , and excessive personal living expenses incurred on business travel away from home . I feel confident that these measures will be welcomed by the American people . I am also confident that business firms , now forced to emulate the expense account favors of their competitors , however unsound or uneconomical such practices may be , will welcome the removal of this pressure . These measures will strengthen both our tax structure and the moral fibre of our society . These provisions should be effective as of January 1 , 1962 and are estimated to increase Treasury receipts by at least 250 million per year . 4 . Capital Gains on Sale of Depreciable Business Property . Another flaw which should be corrected at this time relates to the taxation of gains on the sale of depreciable business property . Such gains are now taxed at the preferential rate applicable to capital gains , even though they represent ordinary income . This situation arises because the statutory rate of depreciation may not coincide with the actual decline in the value of the asset . While the taxpayer holds the property , depreciation is taken as a deduction from ordinary income . Upon its resale , where the amount of depreciation allowable exceeds the decline in the actual value of the asset so that a gain occurs , this gain under present law is taxed at the preferential capital gains rate . The advantages resulting from this practice have been increased by the liberalization of depreciation rates . Our capital gains concept should not encompass this kind of income . This inequity should be eliminated , and especially so in view of the proposed investment credit . We should not encourage through tax incentives the further acquisition of such property as long as this loophole remains . I therefore recommend that capital gains treatment be withdrawn from gains on the disposition of depreciable property , both personal and real property , to the extent that depreciation has been deducted for such property by the seller in previous years , permitting only the excess of the sales price over the original cost to be treated as a capital gain . The remainder should be treated as ordinary income . This reform should immediately become effective as to all sales taking place after the date of enactment . It is estimated to raise revenue by 200 million annually . 5 . Cooperatives and Financial Institutions . Another area of the tax laws which calls for attention is the treatment of cooperatives , private lending institutions , and fire and casualty insurance companies . Contrary to the intention of Congress , substantial income from certain cooperative enterprises , reflecting business operations , is not being taxed either to the cooperative organization itself or its members . This situation must be corrected in a manner that is fair and just to both the cooperatives and competing businesses . The present inequity has resulted from court decisions which held patronage refunds in certain forms to be non taxable . I recommend that the law be clarified so that all earnings are taxable to either the cooperatives or to their patrons , assessing the patron on the earnings that are allocated to him as patronage dividends or refunds in scrip or cash . The withholding principle recommended above should also be applied to patronage dividends or refunds so that the average patron receiving scrip will , in effect , be given the cash to pay his tax on his patronage dividend or refund . The cooperatives should not be penalized by the assessment of a patronage tax upon dividends or refunds taxable to the patron but left in the business as a substitute for the sale of securities to obtain additional equity capital . The exemption for rural electric cooperatives and credit unions should be continued . The tax provisions applicable to fire and casualty insurance companies , originally adopted in 1942 , need to be reviewed in the light of current conditions . Many of these companies , organized on the mutual or reciprocal basis are now taxed under a special formula which does not take account of their underwritings gains and thus results in an inequitable distribution of the tax burden among various types of companies . Consideration should be given to taxing mutual or reciprocal companies on a basis similar to stock companies , following the pattern of similar treatment of stock and mutual enterprise in the life insurance field . Some of the most important types of private savings and lending institutions in the country are accorded tax deductible reserve provisions which substantially reduce or eliminate their Federal income tax liability . These provisions should be reviewed with the aim of assuring non discriminatory treatment . Remedial legislation in these fields would enlarge the revenues and contribute to a fair and sound tax structure . TAX ADMINISTRATIONOne of the major characteristics of our tax system , and one in which we can take a great deal of pride , is that it operates primarily through individual self assessment . The integrity of such a system depends upon the continued willingness of the people honestly and accurately to discharge this annual price of citizenship . To the extent that some people are dishonest or careless in their dealings with the government , the majority is forced to carry a heavier tax burden . For voluntary serf assessment to be both meaningful and productive of revenues , the citizens must not only have confidence in the fairness of the tax laws , but also in their uniform and vigorous enforcement of these laws . If non compliance by the few continues unchecked , the confidence of the many in our self assessment system will be shaken and one of the cornerstones of our government weakened . I have in this message already recommended the application of withholding to dividends and interest and revisions to halt the abuses of expense accounts . These measures will improve taxpayer compliance and raise the regard of taxpayers for the fairness of our system . In addition , I propose three further measures to improve the tax enforcement machinery . 1 . Taxpayer Account Numbers . The Internal Revenue Service has begun the installation of automatic data processing equipment to improve administration of the growing job of tax collection and enforcement . A system of identifying taxpayer account numbers , which would make possible the bringing together of all tax data for any one particular taxpayer , is an essential part of such an improved collection and enforcement program . For this purpose , social security numbers would be used by taxpayers already having them . The small minority currently without such numbers would be assigned numbers which these persons could later use as well for social security purposes if needed . The numbers would be entered on tax returns , information returns , and related documents . I recommend that legislation be enacted to authorize the use of taxpayer account numbers beginning January 1 , 1962 to identify taxpayer accounts throughout the processing and record keeping operations of the Internal Revenue Service . 2 . Increased Audit Coverage . The examination of tax returns is the essence of the enforcement process . The number of examining personnel of the Internal Revenue Service , however , has been consistently inadequate to cope with the audit workload . Consequently , it has been unable to audit carefully many of the returns which should be so examined . Anticipated growth in our population will , of course , increase this enforcement problem . Related to broadened tax audit is the criminal enforcement program of the Revenue Service . Here , the guiding principle is the creation of a deterrent to tax evasion and to maintain or , if possible , increase voluntary compliance with all taxing statutes . This means placing an appropriate degree of investigative emphasis on all types of tax violations , in all geographical areas , and identifying violations of substance in all income brackets regardless of occupation , business or profession . Within this framework of a balanced enforcement effort , the Service is placing special investigative emphasis on returns filed by persons receiving income from illegal sources . I have directed all Federal law enforcement agencies to cooperate fully with the Attorney General in a drive against organized crime , and to utilize their resources to the maximum extent in conducting investigations of individuals engaged in criminal activity on a major scale . With the foregoing in mind , I have directed the Secretary of the Treasury to provide through the Internal Revenue Service a maximum effort in this field . To fulfill these requirements for improved audits , enforcement and anti crime investigation , it is essential that the Service be provided additional resources which will pay their own cost many times over . In furthering the Service s long range plans , the prior Administration asked additional appropriations of 27 . 4 million to hire about 3 , 500 additional personnel during fiscal 1962 , including provisions for the necessary increases in space and modern equipment vital to the efficient operation of the Service . To meet the commitments described above , this Administration reviewed these proposals and recommended that they be increased by another 7 million and 765 additional personnel to expedite the expansion and criminal enforcement programs . The pending alternative of only 1 , 995 additional personnel , or less than one half of the number requested , this Administration would constitute little more than the additional employees needed each year during the 1960 s just to keep up with the estimated growth in number and complexity of returns filed . Thus I must again strongly urge the Congress to give its full support to my original request . These increases will safeguard the long term adequacy of the nation s traditional voluntary compliance system and , at the same time , return the added appropriations several times over in added revenue . 3 . Inventory Reporting . It is increasingly apparent that the manipulation of inventories has become a frequent method of avoiding taxes . Current laws and regulations generally permit the use of inventory methods which are acceptable in recognized accounting practice . Deviations from these methods , which are not always easy to detect during examination of tax returns , can often lead to complete non payment of taxes until the inventories are liquidated and , for some taxpayers , this represents permanent tax reduction . The understating of the valuation of inventories is the device most fiequently used . I have directed the Internal Revenue Service to give increasing attention to this area of tax avoidance , through a stepped up emphasis on both the verification of the amounts reported as inventories and an examination of methods used in arriving at their reported valuation . VTAX RATE EXTENSIONAs recommended by my predecessor , it is again necessary that Congress enact an extension of present corporation income and excise tax rates otherwise scheduled for reduction or termination on July 1 , 1961 Such extension has been adopted by the Congress on a number of previous occasions , and our present revenue requirements make such extension absolutely necessary again this year . In the absence of such legislation , the corporate tax rate would be decreased 5 percentage points , from 52 percent to 47 percent , excise tax rates on distilled spirits , beer , wines , cigarettes , passenger automobiles , automobile parts and accessories , and the transportation of persons would also decline and the excise tax on general telephone service would expire . We cannot afford the loss of these revenues at this time . VIAVIATION FUELThe last item on the agenda relates to aviation fuel . The two previous Administrations have urged that civil aviation , a mature and growing industry , be required to pay a fair share of the costs of operating and improving the Federal airways system . The rapidly mounting costs of these essential services to air transportation makes the imposition of user charges more imperative now than ever before . The most efficient method for recovering a portion of these costs equitably from the airway users is through a tax on aviation fuel . Present law provides for a net tax of 2 cents a gallon on aviation gasoline but no tax on jet fuel . The freedom from tax of jet fuel is inequitable and is resulting in substantial revenue losses due to the transition to jet power and the resulting decline in gasoline consumption . My predecessor recommended a flat 41 2 cent tax for both aviation gasoline and jet fuels . Such a request , however , appears to be unrealistic in view of the current financial condition of the airline industry . Therefore , I recommend extending the present net 2 cent rate on aviation gasoline to jet fuels holding this uniform rate covering both types of fuel at the 2 cent level for fiscal 1962 and providing for annual increments in this rate of 1 2 cent after fiscal year 1962 until the portion of the cost of the airways properly allocable to civil aviation is substantially recovered by this tax . The immediate increase in revenue from this proposal is modest in comparison with anticipated airways costs and the annual gradation of further increases is intended to moderate the impact of the tax on the air carrier industry . Should future economic or other developments warrant , a more rapid increase in the fuel tax will be recommended . The decline from the revenues estimated by my predecessor is not large , and will be met by the reforms previously proposed . I repeat my earlier recommendation that , consistent with the user charge principle , revenues from the aviation fuels tax be retained in the general fund rather than diverted to the highway trust fund . CONCLUSIONThe legislation recommended in this message offers a first step toward the broader objective of tax reform . The immediate need is for encouraging economic growth through modernization and capital expansion , and to remove tax preferences for foreign investment which are no longer needed and which impair our balance of payments position . A beginning is made also toward removing some of the more glaring defects in the tax structure . The revenue gain in these proposals will offset the revenue cost of the investment credit . Finally , certain rate extensions are needed to maintain the revenue potential of our fiscal system . These items need to be done now but they are a first step only . They will be followed next year by a second set of proposals , aimed at thorough income tax reform . Their purpose will be to broaden and unify the income tax base , and to review the entire rate structure in the light of these revisions . Let us join in solving these immediate problems in the coming months , and then join in further action to strengthen the foundations of our revenue system .<speech_sep>President Anderson , members of the faculty , board of trustees , distinguished guests , my old colleague , Senator Bob Byrd , who has earned his degree through many years of attending night law school while I am earning mine in the next 30 minutes , ladies and gentlemen It is with great pride that I participate in this ceremony of the American University , sponsored by the Methodist Church , founded by Bishop John Fletcher Hurst , and first opened by President Woodrow Wilson in 1914 . This is a young and growing university , but it has already fulfilled Bishop Hurst s enlightened hope for the study of history and public affairs in a city devoted to the making of history and to the conduct of the public s business . By sponsoring this institution of higher learning for all who wish to learn , whatever their color or their creed , the Methodists of this area and the Nation deserve the Nation s thanks , and I commend all those who are today graduating . Professor Woodrow Wilson once said that every man sent out from a university should be a man of his nation as well as a man of his time , and I am confident that the men and women who carry the honor of graduating from this institution will continue to give from their lives , from their talents , a high measure of public service and public support . There are few earthly things more beautiful than a university , wrote John Masefield , in his tribute to English universities and his words are equally true today . He did not refer to spires and towers , to campus greens and ivied walls . He admired the splendid beauty of the university , he said , because it was a place where those who hate ignorance may strive to know , where those who perceive truth may strive to make others see . I have , therefore , chosen this time and this place to discuss a topic on which ignorance too often abounds and the truth is too rarely perceived yet it is the most important topic on earth world peace . What kind of peace do I mean What kind of peace do we seek Not a Pax Americana enforced on the world by American weapons of war . Not the peace of the grave or the security of the slave . I am talking about genuine peace , the kind of peace that makes life on earth worth living , the kind that enables men and nations to grow and to hope and to build a better life for their children not merely peace for Americans but peace for all men and women not merely peace in our time but peace for all time . I speak of peace because of the new face of war . Total war makes no sense in an age when great powers can maintain large and relatively invulnerable nuclear forces and refuse to surrender without resort to those forces . It makes no sense in an age when a single nuclear weapon contains almost ten times the explosive force delivered by all of the allied air forces in the Second World War . It makes no sense in an age when the deadly poisons produced by a nuclear exchange would be carried by wind and water and soil and seed to the far corners of the globe and to generations yet unborn . Today the expenditure of billions of dollars every year on weapons acquired for the purpose of making sure we never need to use them is essential to keeping the peace . But surely the acquisition of such idle stockpiles which can only destroy and never create is not the only , much less the most efficient , means of assuring peace . I speak of peace , therefore , as the necessary rational end of rational men . I realize that the pursuit of peace is not as dramatic as the pursuit of war and frequently the words of the pursuer fall on deaf ears . But we have no more urgent task . Some say that it is useless to speak of world peace or world law or world disarmament and that it will be useless until the leaders of the Soviet Union adopt a more enlightened attitude . I hope they do . I believe we can help them do it . But I also believe that we must reexamine our own attitude as individuals and as a Nation for our attitude is as essential as theirs . And every graduate of this school , every thoughtful citizen who despairs of war and wishes to bring peace , should begin by looking inward by examining his own attitude toward the possibilities of peace , toward the Soviet Union , toward the course of the cold war and toward freedom and peace here at home . First Let us examine our attitude toward peace itself . Too many of us think it is impossible . Too many think it unreal . But that is a dangerous , defeatist belief . It leads to the conclusion that war is inevitable that mankind is doomed that we are gripped by forces we cannot control . We need not accept that view . Our problems are manmade therefore , they can be solved by man . And man can be as big as he wants . No problem of human destiny is beyond human beings . Man s reason and spirit have often solved the seemingly unsolvable and we believe they can do it again . I am not referring to the absolute , infinite concept of universal peace and good will of which some fantasies and fanatics dream . I do not deny the value of hopes and dreams but we merely invite discouragement and incredulity by making that our only and immediate goal . Let us focus instead on a more practical , more attainable peace based not on a sudden revolution in human nature but on a gradual evolution in human institutions on a series of concrete actions and effective agreements which are in the interest of all concerned . There is no single , simple key to this peace no grand or magic formula to be adopted by one or two powers . Genuine peace must be the product of many nations , the sum of many acts . It must be dynamic , not static , changing to meet the challenge of each new generation . For peace is a process a way of solving problems . With such a peace , there will still be quarrels and conflicting interests , as there are within families and nations . World peace , like community peace , does not require that each man love his neighbor it requires only that they live together in mutual tolerance , submitting their disputes to a just and peaceful settlement . And history teaches us that enmities between nations , as between individuals , do not last forever . However fixed our likes and dislikes may seem , the tide of time and events will often bring surprising changes in the relations between nations and neighbors . So let us persevere . Peace need not be impracticable , and war need not be inevitable . By defining our goal more clearly , by making it seem more manageable and less remote , we can help all peoples to see it , to draw hope from it , and to move irresistibly toward it . Second Let us reexamine our attitude toward the Soviet Union . It is discouraging to think that their leaders may actually believe what their propagandists write . It is discouraging to read a recent authoritative Soviet text on Military Strategy and find , on page after page , wholly baseless and incredible claims such as the allegation that American imperialist circles are preparing to unleash different types of wars . . . that there is a very real threat of a preventive war being unleashed by American imperialists against the Soviet Union . . . the political aims of the American imperialists are to enslave economically and politically the European and other capitalist countries . . . to achieve world domination . . . by means of aggressive wars . Truly , as it was written long ago The wicked flee when no man pursueth . Yet it is sad to read these Soviet statements to realize the extent of the gulf between us . But it is also a warning a warning to the American people not to fall into the same trap as the Soviets , not to see only a distorted and desperate view of the other side , not to see conflict as inevitable , accommodation as impossible , and communication as nothing more than an exchange of threats . No government or social system is so evil that its people must be considered as lacking in virtue . As Americans , we find communism profoundly repugnant as a negation of personal freedom and dignity . But we can still hail the Russian people for their many achievements in science and space , in economic and industrial growth , in culture and in acts of courage . Among the many traits the peoples of our two countries have in common , none is stronger than our mutual abhorrence of war . Almost unique , among the major world powers , we have never been at war with each other . And no nation in the history of battle ever suffered more than the Soviet Union suffered in the course of the Second World War . At least 20 million lost their lives . Countless millions of homes and farms were burned or sacked . A third of the nation s territory , including nearly two thirds of its industrial base , was turned into a wasteland a loss equivalent to the devastation of this country east of Chicago . Today , should total war ever break out again no matter how our two countries would become the primary targets . It is an ironic but accurate fact that the two strongest powers are the two in the most danger of devastation . All we have built , all we have worked for , would be destroyed in the first 24 hours . And even in the cold war , which brings burdens and dangers to so many countries , including this Nation s closest allies our two countries bear the heaviest burdens . For we are both devoting massive sums of money to weapons that could be better devoted to combating ignorance , poverty , and disease . We are both caught up in a vicious and dangerous cycle in which suspicion on one side breeds suspicion on the other , and new weapons beget counter weapons . In short , both the United States and its allies , and the Soviet Union and its allies , have a mutually deep interest in a just and genuine peace and in halting the arms race . Agreements to this end are in the interests of the Soviet Union as well as ours and even the most hostile nations can be relied upon to accept and keep those treaty obligations , and only those treaty obligations , which are in their own interest . So , let us not be blind to our differences but let us also direct attention to our common interests and to the means by which those differences can be resolved . And if we cannot end now our differences , at least we can help make the world safe for diversity . For , in the final analysis , our most basic common link is that we all inhabit this small planet . We all breathe the same air . We all cherish our children s future . And we are all mortal . Third Let us reexamine our attitude toward the cold war , remembering that we are not engaged in a debate , seeking to pile up debating points . We are not here distributing blame or pointing the finger of judgment . We must deal with the world as it is , and not as it might have been had the history of the last 18 years been different . We must , therefore , persevere in the search for peace in the hope that constructive changes within the Communist bloc might bring within reach solutions which now seem beyond us . We must conduct our affairs in such a way that it becomes in the Communists interest to agree on a genuine peace . Above all , while defending our own vital interests , nuclear powers must avert those confrontations which bring an adversary to a choice of either a humiliating retreat or a nuclear war . To adopt that kind of course in the nuclear age would be evidence only of the bankruptcy of our policy or of a collective death wish for the world . To secure these ends , America s weapons are nonprovocative , carefully controlled , designed to deter , and capable of selective use . Our military forces are committed to peace and disciplined in self restraint . Our diplomats are instructed to avoid unnecessary irritants and purely rhetorical hostility . For we can seek a relaxation of tensions without relaxing our guard . And , for our part , we do not need to use threats to prove that we are resolute . We do not need to jam foreign broadcasts out of fear our faith will be eroded . We are unwilling to impose our system on any unwilling people but we are willing and able to engage in peaceful competition with any people on earth . Meanwhile , we seek to strengthen the United Nations , to help solve its financial problems , to make it a more effective instrument for peace , to develop it into a genuine world security system a system capable of resolving disputes on the basis of law , of insuring the security of the large and the small , and of creating conditions under which arms can finally be abolished . At the same time we seek to keep peace inside the non Communist world , where many nations , all of them our friends , are divided over issues which weaken Western unity , which invite Communist intervention or which threaten to erupt into war . Our efforts in West New Guinea , in the Congo , in the Middle East , and in the Indian subcontinent , have been persistent and patient despite criticism from both sides . We have also tried to set an example for others by seeking to adjust small but significant differences with our own closest neighbors in Mexico and in Canada . Speaking of other nations , I wish to make one point clear . We are bound to many nations by alliances . Those alliances exist because our concern and theirs substantially overlap . Our commitment to defend Western Europe and West Berlin , for example , stands undiminished because of the identity of our vital interests . The United States will make no deal with the Soviet Union at the expense of other nations and other peoples , not merely because they are our partners , but also because their interests and ours converge . Our interests converge , however , not only in defending the frontiers of freedom , but in pursuing the paths of peace . It is our hope and the purpose of allied policies to convince the Soviet Union that she , too , should let each nation choose its own future , so long as that choice does not interfere with the choices of others . The Communist drive to impose their political and economic system on others is the primary cause of world tension today . For there can be no doubt that , if all nations could refrain from interfering in the self determination of others , the peace would be much more assured . This will require a new effort to achieve world law a new context for world discussions . It will require increased understanding between the Soviets and ourselves . And increased understanding will require increased contact and communication . One step in this direction is the proposed arrangement for a direct line between Moscow and Washington , to avoid on each side the dangerous delays , misunderstandings , and misreadings of the other s actions which might occur at a time of crisis . We have also been talking in Geneva about other first step measures of arms control , designed to limit the intensity of the arms race and to reduce the risks of accidental war . Our primary long range interest in Geneva , however , is general and complete disarmament designed to take place by stages , permitting parallel political developments to build the new institutions of peace which would take the place of arms . The pursuit of disarmament has been an effort of this Government since the 1920 s . It has been urgently sought by the past three ado ministrations . And however dim the prospects may be today , we intend to continue this effort to continue it in order that all countries , including our own , can better grasp what the problems and possibilities of disarmament are . The one major area of these negotiations where the end is in sight , yet where a fresh start is badly needed , is in a treaty to outlaw nuclear tests . The conclusion of such a treaty , so near and yet so far , would check the spiraling arms race in one of its most dangerous areas . It would place the nuclear powers in a position to deal more effectively with one of the greatest hazards which man faces in 1963 , the further spread of nuclear arms . It would increase our security it would decrease the prospects of war . Surely this goal is sufficiently important to require our steady pursuit , yielding neither to the temptation to give up the whole effort nor the temptation to give up our insistence on vital and responsible safeguards . I am taking this opportunity , therefore , to announce two important decisions in this regard . First Chairman Khrushchev , Prime Minister Macmillan , and I have agreed that highlevel discussions will shortly begin in Moscow looking toward early agreement on a comprehensive test ban treaty . Our hopes must be tempered with the caution of history but with our hopes go the hopes of all mankind . Second To make clear our good faith and solemn convictions on the matter , I now declare that the United States does not propose to conduct nuclear tests in the atmosphere so long as other states do not do so . We will not be the first to resume . Such a declaration is no substitute for a formal binding treaty , but I hope it will help us achieve one . Nor would such a treaty be a substitute for disarmament , but I hope it will help us achieve it . Finally , my fellow Americans , let us examine our attitude toward peace and freedom here at home . The quality and spirit of our own society must justify and support our efforts abroad . We must show it in the dedication of our own lives as many of you who are graduating today will have a unique opportunity to do , by serving without pay in the Peace Corps abroad or in the proposed National Service Corps here at home . But wherever we are , we must all , in our daily lives , live up to the age old faith that peace and freedom walk together . In too many of our cities today , the peace is not secure because freedom is incomplete . It is the responsibility of the executive branch at all levels of government local , State , and National to provide and protect that freedom for all of our citizens by all means within their authority . It is the responsibility of the legislative branch at all levels , wherever that authority is not now adequate , to make it adequate . And it is the responsibility of all citizens in all sections of this country to respect the rights of all others and to respect the law of the land . All this is not unrelated to world peace . When a man s ways please the Lord , the Scriptures tell us , he maketh even his enemies to be at peace with him . And is not peace , in the last analysis , basically a matter of human rights the right to live out our lives without fear of devastation the right to breathe air as nature provided it the right of future generations to a healthy existence While we proceed to safeguard our national interests , let us also safeguard human interests . And the elimination of war and arms is clearly in the interest of both . No treaty , however much it may be to the advantage of all , however tightly it may be worded , can provide absolute security against the risks of deception and evasion . But it can if it is sufficiently effective in its enforcement and if it is sufficiently in the interests of its signers offer far more security and far fewer risks than an unabated , uncontrolled , unpredictable arms race . The United States , as the world knows , will never start a war . We do not want a war . We do not now expect a war . This generation of Americans has already had enough more than enough of war and hate and oppression . We shall be prepared if others wish it . We shall be alert to try to stop it . But we shall also do our part to build a world of peace where the weak are safe and the strong are just . We are not helpless before that task or hopeless of its success . Confident and unafraid , we labor on not toward a strategy of annihilation but toward a strategy of peace .<speech_sep>President I want to express my appreciation to the President and to the Fellows of this University for the honor that they have bestowed upon me . My wife beat me to this honor by about 8 or 9 years . It took her 2 years to get this degree and it took me 2 minutes , but in any case we are both grateful . I am also glad to be here because this University bears the distinguished name of the father of our country , George Washington . It is a matter of great interest that there has been an intimate relationship between the great political leaders of our country and our colleges and universities . This University bears the name of George Washington , which showed his understanding in his day of the necessity of a free society to produce educated men and women . John Adams and John Quincy Adams from my own State of Massachusetts had an intimate relationship with Harvard University . Both of them , I believe , were members of the board of overseers . In both of their lives , Harvard and its development played a major part . Washington and Lee shows an intimate relationship , for General Lee , the fact that he was willing to devote his life at the end of the war to educating the men and women of the South , indicated his understanding of this basic precept . Woodrow Wilson , Theodore Roosevelt and all the rest . I do not think that there has ever been a time when we have had greater need for those qualities which a university produces . I know that many people feel that a democracy is a divided system , that where the Communists are certain in purpose and certain in execution , we debate and talk and are unable to meet their consistency and their perseverance . I do not hold that view . There are many disadvantages which a free society bears with it in a cold war struggle , but I believe over the long run that people do want to be free , that they desire to develop their own personalities and their own potentials , that democracy permits them to do so . And that it is the job of schools and colleges such as this to provide the men and women who will with their sense of discipline and purpose and understanding contribute to the maintenance of free societies here and around the world . A hundred years ago , George William Curtis of my own State asked a body of educators during the Kansas Nebraska controversy , Would you have counted him a friend of ancient Greece who quietly discussed the theory of patriotism on that hot summer day through whose hopeless and immortal hours Leonidas and the three hundred stood at Thermopylae for liberty Was John Milton to conjugate Greek verbs in his library when the liberty of Englishmen was imperiled No , quite obviously , the duty of the educated man or woman , the duty of the scholar , is to give his objective sense , his sense of liberty to the maintenance of our society at a critical time . This is our opportunity , as well as our responsibility and I am particularly glad to be here today when we are witnessing the swearing in of a new President . Many years ago , as most of you know , at Harvard University somebody came around and asked for President Lowell . They said , He is in Washington seeing Taft . I know that some other day , when they are asking for the President of your University , they will say that he is over at the White House seeing Kennedy . They understood at Harvard , and you understood here , the relative importance of a University President and a President of the United States . Thank you .<speech_sep>Good evening , my fellow citizens This Government , as promised , has maintained the closest surveillance of the Soviet military buildup on the island of Cuba . Within the past week , unmistakable evidence has established the fact that a series of offensive missile sites is now in preparation on that imprisoned island . The purpose of these bases can be none other than to provide a nuclear strike capability against the Western Hemisphere . Upon receiving the first preliminary hard information of this nature last Tuesday morning at 9 a . m . , I directed that our surveillance be stepped up . And having now confirmed and completed our evaluation of the evidence and our decision on a course of action , this Government feels obliged to report this new crisis to you in fullest detail . The characteristics of these new missile sites indicate two distinct types of installations . Several of them include medium range ballistic missiles , capable of carrying a nuclear warhead for a distance of more than 1 , 000 nautical miles . Each of these missiles , in short , is capable of striking Washington , C . , the Panama Canal , Cape Canaveral , Mexico City , or any other city in the southeastern part of the United States , in Central America , or in the Caribbean area . Additional sites not yet completed appear to be designed for intermediate range bailistic missiles capable of traveling more than twice as far and thus capable of striking most of the major cities in the Western Hemisphere , ranging as far north as Hudson Bay , Canada , and as far south as Lima , Peru . In addition , jet bombers , capable of carrying nuclear weapons , are now being uncrated and assembled in Cuba , while the necessary air bases are being prepared . This urgent transformation of Cuba into an important strategic base by the presence of these large , long range , and clearly offensive weapons of sudden mass destruction constitutes an explicit threat to the peace and security of all the Americas , in flagrant and deliberate defiance of the Rio Pact of 1947 , the traditions of this Nation and hemisphere , the joint resolution of the 87th Congress , the Charter of the United Nations , and my own public warnings to the Soviets on September 4 and 13 . This action also contradicts the repeated assurances of Soviet spokesmen , both publicly and privately delivered , that the arms buildup in Cuba would retain its original defensive character , and that the Soviet Union had no need or desire to station strategic missiles on the territory of any other nation . The size of this undertaking makes clear that it has been planned for some months . Yet only last month , after I had made clear the distinction between any introduction of ground to ground missiles and the existence of defensive antiaircraft missiles , the Soviet Government publicly stated on September 11 that , and I quote , the armaments and military equipment sent to Cuba are designed exclusively for defensive purposes , that , and I quote the Soviet Government , there is no need for the Soviet Government to shift its weapons . . . For a retaliatory blow to any other country , for instance Cuba , and that , and I quote their government , the Soviet Union has so powerful rockets to carry these nuclear warheads that there is no need to search for sites for them beyond the boundaries of the Soviet Union . That statement was false . Only last Thursday , as evidence of this rapid offensive buildup was already in my hand , Soviet Foreign Minister Gromyko told me in my office that he was instructed to make it clear once again , as he said his government had already done , that Soviet assistance to Cuba , and I quote , pursued solely the purpose of contributing to the defense capabilities of Cuba , that , and I quote him , training by Soviet specialists of Cuban nationals in handling defensive armaments was by no means offensive , and if it were otherwise , Gromyko went on , the Soviet Government would never become involved in rendering such assistance . That statement also was false . Neither the United States of America nor the world community of nations can tolerate deliberate deception and offensive threats on the part of any nation , large or small . We no longer live in a world where only the actual firing of weapons represents a sufficient challenge to a nation s security to constitute maximum peril . Nuclear weapons are so destructive and ballistic missiles are so swift , that any substantially increased possibility of their use or any sudden change in their deployment may well be regarded as a definite threat to peace . For many years , both the Soviet Union and the United States , recognizing this fact , have deployed strategic nuclear weapons with great care , never upsetting the precarious status quo which insured that these weapons would not be used in the absence of some vital challenge . Our own strategic missiles have never been transferred to the territory of any other nation under a cloak of secrecy and deception and our history unlike that of the Soviets since the end of World War II demonstrates that we have no desire to dominate or conquer any other nation or impose our system upon its people . Nevertheless , American citizens have become adjusted to living daily on the bull s eye of Soviet missiles located inside the S . or in submarines . In that sense , missiles in Cuba add to an already clear and present danger although it should be noted the nations of Latin America have never previously been subjected to a potential nuclear threat . But this secret , swift , and extraordinary buildup of Communist missiles in an area well known to have a special and historical relationship to the United States and the nations of the Western Hemisphere , in violation of Soviet assurances , and in defiance of American and hemispheric policy this sudden , clandestine decision to station strategic weapons for the first time outside of Soviet soil is a deliberately provocative and unjustified change in the status quo which cannot be accepted by this country , if our courage and our commitments are ever to be trusted again by either friend or foe . The 1930 s taught us a clear lesson aggressive conduct , if allowed to go unchecked and unchallenged , ultimately leads to war . This nation is opposed to war . We are also true to our word . Our unswerving objective , therefore , must be to prevent the use of these missiles against this or any other country , and to secure their withdrawal or elimination from the Western Hemisphere . Our policy has been one of patience and restraint , as befits a peaceful and powerful nation , which leads a worldwide alliance . We have been determined not to be diverted from our central concerns by mere irritants and fanatics . But now further action is required and it is under way and these actions may only be the beginning . We will not prematurely or unnecessarily risk the costs of worldwide nuclear war in which even the fruits of victory would be ashes in our mouth but neither will we shrink from that risk at any time it must be faced . Acting , therefore , in the defense of our own security and of the entire Western Hemisphere , and under the authority entrusted to me by the Constitution as endorsed by the resolution of the Congress , I have directed that the following initial steps be taken immediately First To halt this offensive buildup , a strict quarantine on all offensive military equipment under shipment to Cuba is being initiated . All ships of any kind bound for Cuba from whatever nation or port will , if found to contain cargoes of offensive weapons , be turned back . This quarantine will be extended , if needed , to other types of cargo and carriers . We are not at this time , however , denying the necessities of life as the Soviets attempted to do in their Berlin blockade of 1948 . Second I have directed the continued and increased close surveillance of Cuba and its military buildup . The foreign ministers of the OAin their communique of October 6 , rejected secrecy on such matters in this hemisphere . Should these offensive military preparations continue , thus increasing the threat to the hemisphere , further action will be justified . I have directed the Armed Forces to prepare for any eventualities and I trust that in the interest of both the Cuban people and the Soviet technicians at the sites , the hazards to all concerned of continuing this threat will be recognized . Third It shall be the policy of this Nation to regard any nuclear missile launched from Cuba against any nation in the Western Hemisphere as an attack by the Soviet Union on the United States , requiring a full retaliatory response upon the Soviet Union . Fourth As a necessary military precaution , I have reinforced our base at Guantanamo , evacuated today the dependents of our personnel there , and ordered additional military units to be on a standby alert basis . Fifth We are calling tonight for an immediate meeting of the Organ of Consultation under the Organization of American States , to consider this threat to hemispheric security and to invoke articles 6 and 8 of the Rio Treaty in support of all necessary action . The United Nations Charter allows for regional security arrangements and the nations of this hemisphere decided long ago against the military presence of outside powers . Our other allies around the world have also been alerted . Sixth Under the Charter of the United Nations , we are asking tonight that an emergency meeting of the Security Council be convoked without delay to take action against this latest Soviet threat to world peace . Our resolution will call for the prompt dismantling and withdrawal of all offensive weapons in Cuba , under the supervision of observers , before the quarantine can be lifted . Seventh and finally I call upon Chairman Khrushchev to halt and eliminate this clandestine , reckless , and provocative threat to world peace and to stable relations between our two nations . I call upon him further to abandon this course of world domination , and to join in an historic effort to end the perilous arms race and to transform the history of man . He has an opportunity now to move the world back from the abyss of destruction by returning to his government s own words that it had no need to station missiles outside its own territory , and withdrawing these weapons from Cuba by refraining from any action which will widen or deepen the present crisis and then by participating in a search for peaceful and permanent solutions . This Nation is prepared to present its case against the Soviet threat to peace , and our own proposals for a peaceful world , at any time and in any forum in the OAin the United Nations , or in any other meeting that could be useful without limiting our freedom of action . We have in the past made strenuous efforts to limit the spread of nuclear weapons . We have proposed the elimination of all arms and military bases in a fair and effective disarmament treaty . We are prepared to discuss new proposals for the removal of tensions on both sides including the possibilities of a genuinely independent Cuba , free to determine its own destiny . We have no wish to war with the Soviet Union for we are a peaceful people who desire to live in peace with all other peoples . But it is difficult to settle or even discuss these problems in an atmosphere of intimidation . That is why this latest Soviet threat or any other threat which is made either independently or in response to our actions this week must and will be met with determination . Any hostile move anywhere in the world against the safety and freedom of peoples to whom we are committed including in particular the brave people of West Berlin will be met by whatever action is needed . Finally , I want to say a few words to the captive people of Cuba , to whom this speech is being directly carried by special radio facilities . I speak to you as a friend , as one who knows of your deep attachment to your fatherland , as one who shares your aspirations for liberty and justice for all . And I have watched and the American people have watched with deep sorrow how your nationalist revolution was betrayed and how your fatherland fell under foreign domination . Now your leaders are no longer Cuban leaders inspired by Cuban ideals . They are puppets and agents of an international conspiracy which has turned Cuba against your friends and neighbors in the Americas and turned it into the first Latin American country to become a target for nuclear war the first Latin American country to have these weapons on its soil . These new weapons are not in your interest . They contribute nothing to your peace and well being . They can only undermine it . But this country has no wish to cause you to suffer or to impose any system upon you . We know that your lives and land are being used as pawns by those who deny your freedom . Many times in the past , the Cuban people have risen to throw out tyrants who destroyed their liberty . And I have no doubt that most Cubans today look forward to the time when they will be truly free free from foreign domination , free to choose their own leaders , free to select their own system , free to own their own land , free to speak and write and worship without fear or degradation . And then shall Cuba be welcomed back to the society of free nations and to the associations of this hemisphere . My fellow citizens let no one doubt that this is a difficult and dangerous effort on which we have set out . No one can foresee precisely what course it will take or what costs or casualties will be incurred . Many months of sacrifice and self discipline lie ahead months in which both our patience and our will be tested months in which many threats and denunciations will keep us aware of our dangers . But the greatest danger of all would be to do nothing . The path we have chosen for the present is full of hazards , as all paths are but it is the one most consistent with our character and courage as a nation and our commitments around the world . The cost of freedom is always high but Americans have always paid it . And one path we shall never choose , and that is the path of surrender or submission . Our goal is not the victory of might , but the vindication of right not peace at the expense of freedom , but both peace and freedom , here in this hemisphere , and , we hope , around the world . God willing , that goal will be achieved . Thank you and good night .<speech_sep>Vice President Johnson , Speaker , Chief Justice , President Eisenhower , Vice President Nixon , President Truman , Reverend Clergy , fellow citizens We observe today not a victory of party but a celebration of freedom symbolizing an end as well as a beginning signifying renewal as well as change . For I have sworn before you and Almighty God the same solemn oath our forebears prescribed nearly a century and three quarters ago . The world is very different now . For man holds in his mortal hands the power to abolish all forms of human poverty and all forms of human life . And yet the same revolutionary beliefs for which our forebears fought are still at issue around the globe the belief that the rights of man come not from the generosity of the state but from the hand of God . We dare not forget today that we are the heirs of that first revolution . Let the word go forth from this time and place , to friend and foe alike , that the torch has been passed to a new generation of Americans born in this century , tempered by war , disciplined by a hard and bitter peace , proud of our ancient heritage and unwilling to witness or permit the slow undoing of those human rights to which this nation has always been committed , and to which we are committed today at home and around the world . Let every nation know , whether it wishes us well or ill , that we shall pay any price , bear any burden , meet any hardship , support any friend , oppose any foe to assure the survival and the success of liberty . This much we pledge and more . To those old allies whose cultural and spiritual origins we share , we pledge the loyalty of faithful friends . United , there is little we cannot do in a host of cooperative ventures . Divided , there is little we can do for we dare not meet a powerful challenge at odds and split asunder . To those new states whom we welcome to the ranks of the free , we pledge our word that one form of colonial control shall not have passed away merely to be replaced by a far more iron tyranny . We shall not always expect to find them supporting our view . But we shall always hope to find them strongly supporting their own freedom and to remember that , in the past , those who foolishly sought power by riding the back of the tiger ended up inside . To those peoples in the huts and villages of half the globe struggling to break the bonds of mass misery , we pledge our best efforts to help them help themselves , for whatever period is required not because the communists may be doing it , not because we seek their votes , but because it is right . If a free society cannot help the many who are poor , it cannot save the few who are rich . To our sister republics south of our border , we offer a special pledge to convert our good words into good deeds in a new alliance for progress to assist free men and free governments in casting off the chains of poverty . But this peaceful revolution of hope cannot become the prey of hostile powers . Let all our neighbors know that we shall join with them to oppose aggression or subversion anywhere in the Americas . And let every other power know that this Hemisphere intends to remain the master of its own house . To that world assembly of sovereign states , the United Nations , our last best hope in an age where the instruments of war have far outpaced the instruments of peace , we renew our pledge of support to prevent it from becoming merely a forum for invective to strengthen its shield of the new and the weak and to enlarge the area in which its writ may run . Finally , to those nations who would make themselves our adversary , we offer not a pledge but a request that both sides begin anew the quest for peace , before the dark powers of destruction unleashed by science engulf all humanity in planned or accidental self destruction . We dare not tempt them with weakness . For only when our arms are sufficient , beyond doubt can we be certain beyond doubt that they will never be employed . But neither can two great and powerful groups of nations take comfort from our present course both sides overburdened by the cost of modern weapons , both rightly alarmed by the steady spread of the deadly atom , yet both racing to alter that uncertain balance of terror that stays the hand of mankind s final war . So let us begin anew remembering on both sides that civility is not a sign of weakness , and sincerity is always subject to proof . Let us never negotiate out of fear . But let us never fear to negotiate . Let both sides explore what problems unite us instead of belaboring those problems which divide us . Let both sides , for the first time , formulate serious and precise proposals for the inspection and control of arms and bring the absolute power to destroy other nations under the absolute control of all nations . Let both sides seek to invoke the wonders of science instead of its terrors . Together let us explore the stars , conquer the deserts , eradicate disease , tap the ocean depths and encourage the arts and commerce . Let both sides unite to heed in all corners of the earth the command of Isaiah to undo the heavy burdens . . . let the oppressed go free . And if a beach head of cooperation may push back the jungle of suspicion , let both sides join in creating a new endeavor , not a new balance of power , but a new world of law , where the strong are just and the weak secure and the peace preserved . All this will not be finished in the first one hundred days . Nor will it be finished in the first one thousand days , nor in the life of this Administration , nor even perhaps in our lifetime on this planet . But let us begin . In your hands , my fellow citizens , more than mine , will rest the final success or failure of our course . Since this country was founded , each generation of Americans has been summoned to give testimony to its national loyalty . The graves of young Americans who answered the call to service surround the globe . Now the trumpet summons us again not as a call to bear arms , though arms we need not as a call to battle , though embattled we are but a call to bear the burden of a long twilight struggle , year in and year out , rejoicing in hope , patient in tribulation a struggle against the common enemies of man tyranny , poverty , disease and war itself . Can we forge against these enemies a grand and global alliance , North and South , East and West , that can assure a more fruitful life for all mankind Will you join in that historic effort In the long history of the world , only a few generations have been granted the role of defending freedom in its hour of maximum danger . I do not shrink from this responsibility I welcome it . I do not believe that any of us would exchange places with any other people or any other generation . The energy , the faith , the devotion which we bring to this endeavor will light our country and all who serve it and the glow from that fire can truly light the world . And so , my fellow Americans ask not what your country can do for you ask what you can do for your country . My fellow citizens of the world ask not what America will do for you , but what together we can do for the freedom of man . Finally , whether you are citizens of America or citizens of the world , ask of us here the same high standards of strength and sacrifice which we ask of you . With a good conscience our only sure reward , with history the final judge of our deeds , let us go forth to lead the land we love , asking His blessing and His help , but knowing that here on earth God s work must truly be our own .<speech_sep>Meany , Reverend Clergy , Governor Bryant , gentlemen , ladies It is warmer here today than it was yesterday I want to express my pleasure at this invitation . As one whose work and continuity of employment has depended in part upon the union movement , I want to say that I have been on the job , training for about 11 months , and feel that I have some seniority rights in the matter . I am delighted to be here with you and with Secretary of Labor Arthur Goldberg . I was up in New York stressing physical fitness , and in line with that Arthur went over with a group to Switzerland to climb some of the mountains there . They all got up about 5 and he was in bed got up to join them later and when they all came back at 4 of the clock in the afternoon , he did not come back with them . They sent out search parties and there was no sign of him that afternoon or night . Next day the Red Cross went out and they went around calling Goldberg Goldberg it is the Red Cross . And this voice came down the mountain , I gave at the office . Those are the liberties you can take with members of the Cabinet . But I want to say it is a pleasure to be here . This is an important anniversary for all of us , the 20th anniversary of Pearl Harbor . I suppose , really , the only two dates that most people remember where they were , were Pearl Harbor and the death of President Franklin Roosevelt . We face entirely different challenges on this Pearl Harbor . In many ways the challenges are more serious , and in a sense long reaching , because I do not think that any of us had any doubt in those days that the United States would survive and prevail and our strength increase . Now we are face to face in a most critical time with challenges all around the world , and you in the labor movement bear a heavy responsibility . Occasionally I read articles by those who say that the labor movement has fallen into dark days . I do not believe that , and I would be very distressed if it were true . One of the great qualities about the United States which I do not think people realize who are not in the labor movement , is what a great asset for freedom the American labor movement represents , not only here but all around the world . It is no accident that Communists concentrate their attention on the trade union movement . They know that people the working people are frequently left out , that in many areas of the world they have no one to speak for them , and the Communists mislead them and say that they will protect their rights . So many go along . But in the United States , because we have had a strong , free labor movement , the working people of this country have not felt that they were left out . And as long as the labor movement is strong and as long as it is committed to freedom , then I think that freedom in this country is strengthened . So I would hope that every American , whether he was on one side of the bargaining table or the other or whether he was in a wholly different sphere of life , would recognize that the strength of a free American labor movement is vital to the maintenance of freedom in this country and all around the world . And I am delighted that there are here today , I understand , nearly 150 trade union leaders from nearly 32 countries around the world . I believe and I say this as President that one of the great assets that this country has is the influence which this labor movement can promote around the world in demonstrating what a free trade union can do . I hope that they will go back from this meeting recognizing that in the long run a strong labor movement is essential to the maintenance of democracy in their country . It is no accident that there has not been a strike in the Soviet Union for 30 , or 35 , or 40 years . The Communists who in Latin America , or Africa , or Asia say that they represent the people , cannot possibly under any rule of reason or debate say that a labor movement is free when it is not able to express its rights , not only in relationship to the employer but also to speak out and recognize the limitations of governmental power . We are not omniscient we are not all powerful this is a free society , and management and labor , and the farmer and the citizen have their rights . We did not give them their rights in government . And I hope that those who go from this hall to Latin America , to Europe , to Africa , will recognize that we believe in freedom and in progress in this country , that we believe that freedom is not an end in itself , but we believe that freedom can bring material abundance and prosperity . And I want you to know that I consider this meeting and the house of labor vital to the interests of this country and the cause of freedom in the coming days . What unites labor , what unites this country , is far more important than those things on which we may disagree . So , gentlemen and ladies , you are not only leaders of your unions but you occupy a . position of responsibility as citizens of the United States and therefore I felt it most appropriate to come here today and talk with you . First , I want to express my appreciation to you for several things . For example , I appreciate the effort that those of you who represent the interests of the men and women who work at our missile plants have made . The fact that you have given and that the men and women who work there have lived up to the no strike pledge at our missile and space sites has made an appreciable difference in the progress that we are making in these areas and the country appreciates the effort you are making . Secondly , we have for the first time a Presidential Advisory Committee on Labor Management Policy which for once did not break up on the passage of the Wagner Act in 1935 , but instead meets month by month in an attempt to work out and develop economic policies which will permit this country to go forward under conditions of full employment . And I want to thank you for the participation you have given that . Third , as I said , I want to thank the labor movement for what it is doing abroad in strengthening the free labor movement , and I urge you to redouble your efforts . The hope , as I have said , of freedom in these countries rests in many parts with the labor movement . We do not want to leave the people of some countries a choice between placing their destiny in the hands of a few who hold in their hands most of the property and on the other side the Communist movement . We do not give them that choice . We want them to have the instruments of freedom to protect themselves and provide for progress in their country , and a strong , free labor movement can do it and I hope you will concentrate your attention in the next 12 months in that area in Latin America and all around the world . The fact is that the head of the Congo Adoula who has been a strong figure for freedom , came out of the labor movement . And that is happening in country after country . And this is a great opportunity and responsibility for all of us to continue to work together . And finally , I want to take this opportunity to express my thanks to the AFLCIO for the support that it gave in the passage of our legislative program in the long session of the Congress . We did not always agree on every tactic . We may not have achieved every goal , but we can take some satisfaction in the fact that we did make progress toward a 1 . 25 minimum wage , that we did expand the coverage for the first time in 20 years that we did pass the best housing act since 1949 that we did , finally , after two Presidential vetoes in the last 4 years , pass a bill providing assistance to those areas suffering from chronic unemployment that we did pass a long range water pollution bill that we did pass increased Social Security benefits , a lowering of the retirement age in Social Security from 65 to 62 for men , temporary unemployment compensation , and aid to dependent children . And we are coming back in January and we are going to start again . The Gross National Product has climbed since January from 500 billion to an estimated 540 billion in the last quarter , and it is a pleasure for me to say that the November employment figures received this morning show not only two million more people than were working in February , but we have now an all time high for November , 67 , 349 , 000 people working . But , more importantly , unlike the usual seasonal run in November , which ordinarily provides for an increase in unemployment of about a half a million , we have now brought the figure for the first time below the 7 percent where it is hovered down to 6 . 1 percent , and we are going to have to get it lower . I would not claim we have achieved full . recovery or the permanently high growth rate of which we are capable . Since the recession of 58 , from which we only partially recovered , and going into the recession of 1960 , too many men and women have been idle for too long a time and our first concern must still be with those unable to get work . Unemployment compensation must be placed on a permanent , rational basis of nationwide standards , and even more importantly those who are older and retired must be permitted under a system of Social Security to get assistance and relief from the staggering cost of their medical bills . The time has come in the next session of the Congress to face the fact that our eider citizens do need these benefits , that their needs cannot be adequately met in any other way , and that every Member of the Congress should have the opportunity to go on the record , up or down , on this question and I believe when it comes to the floor as I believe it must they are going to vote it up and through before they adjourn in July or August . Now there are six areas that I believe that we need to give our attention to if the manpower budget is to be balanced . First , we must give special attention to the problems of our younger people . Conant s recent book only highlighted a fact which all of you are familiar with , and that is the problem of those who drop out of school before they have finished , because of hardships in their home , inadequate motivation or counseling or whatever it may be , and then drift without being able to find a decent job . And this falls particularly heavily upon the young men and women who are in our minority groups . In addition to that , 26 million young people will be crowding into the labor market in the next 10 years . This can be a tremendous asset because we have many tasks that require their talent . But today there are one million young Americans under the age of 25 who are out of school and out of work . Millions of others leave school early , destined to fall for life into a pattern of being untrained , unskilled , and frequently unemployed . It is for this reason that I have asked the Congress to pass a Youth Employment Opportunities Act to guide these hands so that they can make a life for themselves . Equally important , if our young people are to be well trained and skilled labor is going to be needed in the next years , and if they are to be inspired to finish their studies , the Federal Government must meet its responsibility in the field of education . I am not satisfied if my particular community has a good school . I want to make sure that every child in this country has an adequate opportunity for a good education . Thomas Jefferson once said , If you expect a country to be ignorant and free , you expect what never was and never will be . It is not enough that our own home town has a good school , we want the United States as a country to be among the best educated in the world . And I believe that we must invest in our youth . Secondly , we need a program of retraining our unemployed workers . All of you who live so close to this problem know what happens when technology changes and industries move out and men are left . And I have seen it in my own State of Massachusetts where textile workers were unemployed , unable to find work even with new electronic plants going up all around them . We want to make sure that our workers are able to take advantage of the new jobs that must inevitably come as technology changes in the 1960 s . And I believe , therefore , that retraining deserves the attention of this Congress in the coming days . And the third group requiring our attention consists of our minority citizens . All of you know the statistics of those who are first discharged and the last to be rehired too often are among those who are members of our minority groups . We want everyone to have a chance , regardless of their race or color , to have an opportunity to make a life for themselves and their families , to get a decent education so they have a fair chance to compete , and then be judged on what is in here and not on what is on the outside . And the American labor movement has been identified with this cause , and I know that you will be in the future . And we are making a great effort to make sure that all those who secure Federal contracts and there are billions of dollars spent each year by the Federal Government will give fair opportunity to all of our citizens to participate in that work . Fourth , we want to provide opportunities for plant re investment . One of the matters which is of concern in maintaining our economy now is the fact that we do not have as much re investment in our plants as we did , for example , in 1955 , 56 and 57 And we want this economy and this rise to be continuous . And I believe we have to give as much incentive as is possible to provide reinvestment in plants which makes work and will keep our economy moving ahead . And therefore I have suggested a tax credit , which I am hopeful the American labor movement has not placed on its list of those matters yet that it has not supported , but it will consider this proposal as a method of stimulating the economy so that this recovery does not run out of gas in 12 months or 18 months from now , as the 1958 59 recovery , after the recession of 1958 , ran out inFifth , to add to our arsenals of built in stabilizers so we can keep our economy moving ahead , it is my intention to ask the Congress at its next session for stand by authority somewhat along the lines of the bill introduced by Senator Clark of Pennsylvania , to make grants in aid to communities for needed public works when our unemployment begins to mount and our economy to slow down . Sixth and finally , we must expand our job opportunities by stimulating our trade abroad . I know that this is a matter to which the labor movement has given a good deal of attention . Meany made an outstanding speech on this matter several weeks ago , and it is a matter which is of concern to this administration . I am sure you wonder , perhaps , why we are placing so much emphasis on it , and I would like to say why we are , very briefly . The first is , this country must maintain a favorable balance of trade or suffer severely from the point of view of our national security . We sell abroad now nearly 5 billion more than we import . But unfortunately that 5 billion goes abroad in order to maintain the national security requirements of the United States . We spend 3 billion of that in order to keep our troops overseas . It costs us nearly 700 to 800 million to keep our divisions in Western Germany , and 300 million to keep our troop establishments in France . And what is true in France and Germany , which are outposts of our commitments , is true in other areas . So that if we are not able to maintain a favorable balance of trade , then of course we will have to do as the British have had to do , which is begin to bring our troops back and lay the way open for other actions . So that this is a matter which involves very greatly our security , and unless you believe that the United States should retreat to our own hemisphere and forget our commitments abroad , then you can share with me my concern about what will happen if that balance of trade begins to drop . Now the problems that we face have been intensified by the development of the Common Market . This is our best market for manufactured products . What I am concerned about is that we shall be able to keep moving our trade into those areas otherwise what we will find is that American capital which cannot place its goods in that market will decide , as they are doing now , to build their plants in Western Europe , and then they hire Western European workers and you suffer , and the country suffers , and the balance of payments suffers . So this is a matter of the greatest importance to you in fact , to all Americans . It is , for example , of the greatest importance to American farmers . They sell 2 billion of agricultural commodities to Western Europe . We bring in 80 million of agricultural commodities from Western Europe . In other words , we make almost 2 billion of our foreign exchange from that sale of agricultural commodities , and yet Western Europe has great agricultural resources which are increasing , and we are going to find it increasingly difficult unless we are able to negotiate from a position of strength with them . So this matter is important . The purpose of this discussion is to increase employment . The purpose of this discussion is to strengthen the United States , and it is a matter which deserves our most profound attention . Are we going to export our goods and our crops or , are we going to export our capital That is the question that we are now facing . And I know that those of you who have been concerned about this know this to be a major problem . Last year , 1960 , we invested abroad 1 , 700 million , and we took in from our investments abroad 2 , 300 million which sounded like it was a pretty good exchange . But if you analyze these figures you will see that we took in , from the underdeveloped world , which needs capital , we took in 1 , 300 million and we sent out in capital for investment 200 million . And yet this is the area that needs our investment . While in Western Europe we sent out 1 , 500 million and took in 1 billion . So that if this trend should continue and more and more Western Europe became the object of American investment , it affects us all and affects the people who work with you . We are attempting to repeal those tax privileges which make it particularly attractive for American capital to invest in Western Europe . We passed laws in the days of the Marshall Plan when we wanted American capital over there , and as the result of that , there are provisions on the tax book which make it good business to go over there . Now we want it all to be fair , and we have stated we are not putting in exchange controls , which we will not . But we recommended in January the passage of a bill which would lessen the tax privileges of investing in Western Europe and which would have given us 250 million in revenue and in balance of payments . The tax privileges or the attractions should be in the underdeveloped world , where we have been taking capital out rather than putting it in , and not in Western Europe where the capital is sufficient and which does not serve that great national purpose . So this is a matter of concern for all of us and it is a matter which we must consider in the coming months . The Common Market is a tremendous market . It has more people than we do . Its rate of growth is twice ours . Its income is about three fifths of ours , and may some day be equal to ours . This can be a great asset not only to them but to us a great strength tying Western Europe , the United States , and Latin America and Japan together as a great area of freedom . And I think that it represents one of the most hopeful signs since 1945 . It is one place where the Free World can be on the offensive . And I am anxious that the United States play its proper role to protect the interests of our people and to advance the cause of freedom . And I ask the careful consideration of the American labor movement in this area . One of the problems which we have is to recognize that those who have been affected by imports have received no protection at all for a number of years from the United States Government . When I was a Senator in 1954 , I introduced legislation to provide assistance to those industries which are hard hit by imports . I am going to recommend in January a program which I hope the Congress will pass , which will provide a recognition of the national responsibility in the period of transition for those industries and people who may be adversely affected . I am optimistic about the future of this country . This is a great country , with an energetic people , and I believe over the . long period the people of . this country and of the world really want freedom and wish to solve their own lives and their own destiny . I am hopeful that we can be associated with that movement . I am hopeful that you will continue to meet your responsibilities to your people as well as to the country . I hope that we can maintain a viable economy here with full employment . I am hopeful we can be competitive here and around the world . I am hopeful that management and labor will recognize their responsibility to permit us to compete , that those of you who are in the area of wage negotiations will recognize the desirability of us maintaining as stable prices as possible , and that the area of productivity and stable prices that your negotiations will take adequate calculation and account of this need for us to maintain a balance of trade in our favor . In the long run it is in the interests of your own workers . Let me repeat If we cannot maintain the balance of trade in our favor , which it now is , of 5 billion , and indeed increase it , then this country is going to face most serious problems . In the last 3 years , even though the balance of trade in our favor has been 5 billion , we have lost 5 billion in gold and if this trend should go on year after year then the United States , as I have said , would have to make adjustments which would be extremely adverse to the cause of freedom around the world . The solution rests with increasing our export trade , with remaining competitive , with our businesses selling abroad , finding new markets , and keeping our people working at home and around the world . And it is a fact that the six countries of the Common Market who faced the problems that we now face , have had in the last 4 years full employment and an economic growth twice ours . Even a country which faced staggering economic problems a decade ago Italy has been steadily building its gold balance , cutting down its unemployment and moving ahead twice what we have over the last 4 years . So what I am talking about is an opportunity , not a burden . This is a chance to move the United States forward in the 1960 s , not only in the economic sphere but also to make a contribution to the cause of freedom . And I come to Miami today and ask your help , as on other occasions other Presidents of the United States , stretching back to the time of Woodrow Wilson and Roosevelt and Truman , have come to the AF of L and the CIO and each time this organization has said yes . Thank you .<speech_sep>Chancellor , Governor Sanford , members of the faculty , ladies and gentlemen I am honored today to be admitted to the fellowship of this ancient and distinguished university , and I am pleased to receive in the short space of 1 or 2 minutes the honor for which you spend over 4 years of your lives . But whether the degree be honorary or earned , it is a proud symbol of this university and this State . North Carolina has long been identified with enlightened and progressive leaders and people , and I can think of no more important reason for that reputation than this university , which year after year has sent educated men and women who have had a recognition of their public responsibility as well as in their private interests . Distinguished Presidents like President Graham and Gray , distinguished leaders like the Secretary of Commerce , Governor Hodges , distinguished members of the congressional delegation , carry out a tradition which stretches back to the beginning of this school , and that is that the graduate of this university is a man of his Nation as well as a man of his time . And it is my hope , in a changing world , when untold possibilities lie before North Carolina , and indeed the entire South and country , that this university will still hew to the old line of the responsibility that its graduates owe to the community at large that in your time , too , you will be willing to give to the State and country a portion of your lives and all of your knowledge and all of your loyalty . I want to emphasize , in the great concentration which we now place upon scientists and engineers , how much we still need the men and women educated in the liberal traditions , willing to take the long look , undisturbed by prejudices and slogans of the moment , who attempt to make an honest judgment on difficult events . This university has a more important function today than ever before , and therefore I am proud as President of the United States , and as a graduate of a small land grant college in Massachusetts , Harvard University , to come to this center of education . Those of you who regard my profession of political life with some disdain should remember that it made it possible for me to move from being an obscure lieutenant in the United States Navy to Commander in Chief in 14 years , with very little technical competence . But more than that , I hope that you will realize that from the beginning of this country , and especially in North Carolina , there has been the closest link between educated men and women and politics and government . And also to remember that our nation s first great leaders were also our first great scholars . A contemporary described Thomas Jefferson as a gentleman of 32 who could calculate an eclipse , survey an estate , tie an artery , plan an edifice , try a cause , break a horse , dance the minuet , and play the violin . John Quincy Adams , after being summarily dismissed by the Massachusetts Legislature from the United States Senate for supporting Thomas Jefferson , could then become Boylston Professor of Rhetoric and Oratory at Harvard University , and then become a great Secretary of State . And Senator Daniel Webster could stroll down the corridors of the Congress a few steps , after making some of the greatest speeches in the history of this country , and dominate the Supreme Court as the foremost lawyer of his day . This versatility , this vitality , this intellectual energy , put to the service of our country , represents our great resource in these difficult days . I would urge you , therefore , regardless of your specialty , and regardless of your chosen field or occupation , and regardless of whether you bear office or not , that you recognize the contribution which you can make as educated men and women to intellectual and political leadership in these difficult days , when the problems are infinitely more complicated and come with increasing speed , with increasing significance , in our lives than they were a century ago when so many gifted men dominated our political life . The United States Senate had more able men serving in it , from the period of 1830 to 1850 , than probably any time in our history , and yet they dealt with three or four problems which they had dealt with for over a generation . Now they come day by day , from all parts of the world . Even the experts find themselves confused , and therefore in a free society such as this , where the people must make an educated judgment , they depend upon those of you who have had the advantage of the scholar s education . I ask you to give to the service of our country the critical faculties which society has helped develop in you here . I ask you to decide , as Goethe put it , whether you will be an anvil or a hammer , whether you will give the United States , in which you were reared and educated , the broadest possible benefits of that education . It is not enough to lend your talents to deploring present solutions . Most educated men and women on occasions prefer to discuss what is wrong , rather than to suggest alternative courses of action . But , would you have counted him a friend of ancient Greece , as George William Curtis asked a body of educators a century ago , would you have counted him a friend of ancient Greece who quietly discussed the theory of patriotism on that hot summer day through whose hopeless and immortal hours Leonidas and the three hundred stood at Thermopylae for liberty Was John Milton to conjugate Greek verbs in his library when the liberty of Englishmen was imperiled This is a great institution with a great tradition and with devoted alumni , and with the support of the people of this State . Its establishment and continued functioning , like that of all great universities , has required great sacrifice by the people of North Carolina . I cannot believe that all of this is undertaken merely to give this school s graduates an economic advantage in the lifestruggle . A university , said Professor Woodrow Wilson , should be an organ of memory for the State , for the transmission of its best traditions . And Prince Bismarck was even more specific . One third of the students of German universities , he once said , broke down from over work , another third broke down from dissipation , and the other third ruled Germany . I leave it to each of you to decide in which category you will fall . I do not suggest that our political and public life should be turned over to college trained experts , nor would I give this university a seat in the Congress , as William and Mary was once represented in the Virginia House of Burgesses , nor would I adopt from the Belgian constitution a provision giving three votes instead of one to college graduates at least not until more Democrats go to college . But I do hope that you join us . This university produces trained men and women , and what this country needs are those who look , as the motto of your State says , at things as they are and not at things as they seem to be . For this meeting is held at an extraordinary time . Angola and Algeria , Brazil and Bizerte , Syria and South Viet Nam , Korea or Kuwait , the Dominican Republic , Berlin , the United Nations itself all problems which 20 years ago we could not even dream of . Our task in this country is to do our best , to serve our Nation s interest as we see it , and not to be swayed from our course by the faint hearted or the unknowing , or the threats of those who would make themselves our foes . This is not a simple task in a democracy . We cannot open all our books in advance to an adversary who operates in the night , the decisions we make , the weapons we possess , the bargains we will accept nor can we always see reflected overnight the success or failure of the actions that we may take . In times past , a simple slogan described our policy Fifty four forty or fight . To make the world safe for democracy . No entangling alliances . But the times , issues , and the weapons , all have changed and complicate and endanger our lives . It is a dangerous illusion to believe that the policies of the United States , stretching as they do world wide , under varying and different conditions , can be encompassed in one slogan or one adjective , hard or soft or otherwise or to believe that we shall soon meet total victory or total defeat . Peace and freedom do not come cheap , and we are destined , all of us here today , to live out most if not all of our lives in uncertainty and challenge and peril . Our policy must therefore blend whatever degree of firmness and flexibility which is necessary to protect our vital interests , by peaceful means if possible , by resolute action if necessary . There is , of course , no place in America where reason and firmness are more clearly pointed out than here in North Carolina . All Americans can profit from what happened in this State a century ago . It was this State , firmly fixed in the traditions of the South , which sought a way of reason in a troubled and dangerous world . Yet when the War came , North Carolina provided a fourth of all of the Confederate soldiers who made the supreme sacrifice in those years . And it won the right to the slogan , First at Bethel . Farthest to the front at Gettysburg and Chickamauga . Last at Appomattox . Its quest for a peaceful resolution of our problems was never identified in the minds of its people , of people today , with anything but a desire for peace and a preparation to meet their responsibilities . We move for the first time in our history through an age in which two opposing powers have the capacity to destroy each other , and while we do not intend to see the free world give up , we shall make every effort to prevent the world from being blown up . The American Eagle on our official seal emphasizes both peace and freedom , and as I said in the State of the Union Address , we in this country give equal attention to its claws when it in its left hand holds the arrows and in its right the olive branch . This is a time of national maturity , understanding , and willingness to face issues as they are , not as we would like them to be . It is a test of our ability to be far seeing and calm , as well as resolute , to keep an eye on both our dangers and our opportunities , and not to be diverted by momentary gains , or setbacks , or pressures . And it is the long view of the educated citizen to which the graduates of this university can best contribute . We must distinguish the real from the illusory , the long range from the temporary , the significant from the petty , but if we can be purposeful , if we can face up to our risks and live up to our word , if we can do our duty undeterred by fanatics or frenzy at home or abroad , then surely peace and freedom can prevail . We shall be neither Red nor dead , but alive and free and worthy of the traditions and responsibilities of North Carolina and the United States of America .<speech_sep>