To the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States I submit to the consideration of Congress a letter from the agent of the United States with the Creek Indians , who invoke the protection of the Government of the United States in defense of the rights and territory secured to that nation by the treaty concluded at Washington , and ratified on the part of the United States on the 22d of April last . The complaint set forth in this letter that surveyors from Georgia have been employed in surveying lands within the Indian Territory , as secured by that treaty , is authenticated by the information inofficially received from other quarters , and there is reason to believe that one or more of the surveyors have been arrested in their progress by the Indians . Their forbearance , and reliance upon the good faith of the United States will , it is hoped , avert scenes of violence and blood which there is otherwise too much cause to apprehend will result from these proceedings . By the fifth section of the act of Congress of the 30th of March , 1802 , to regulate trade and intercourse with the Indian tribes and to preserve peace on the frontiers , it is provided that if any citizen of or other person resident in the United States shall make a settlement on any lands belonging or secured or granted by treaty with the United States to any Indian tribe , or shall survey , or attempt to survey , such lands , or designate any of the boundaries by marking trees or otherwise , such offender shall forfeit a sum not exceeding 1 , 000 and suffer imprisonment not exceeding twelve months . By the sixteenth and seventeenth sections of the same statute two distinct processes are prescribed , by either or both of which the above enactment may be carried into execution . By the first it is declared to be lawful for the military force of the United States to apprehend every person found in the Indian country over and beyond the boundary line between the United States and the Indian tribes in violation of any of the provisions or regulations of the act , and immediately to convey them , in the nearest convenient and safe route , to the civil authority of the United States in some of the three next adjoining States or districts , to be proceeded against in due course of law . By the second it is directed that if any person charged with the violation of any of the provisions or regulations of the act shall be found within any of the United States or either of their territorial districts such offender may be there apprehended and brought to trial in the same manner as if such crime or offense had been committed within such State or district and that it shall be the duty of the military force of the United States , when called upon by the civil magistrate or any proper officer or other person duly authorized for that purpose and having a lawful warrant , to aid and assist such magistrate , officer , or other person so authorized in arresting such offender and committing him to safe custody for trial according to law . The first of these processes is adapted to the arrest of the trespasser upon Indian territories on the spot and in the act of committing the offense but as it applies the action of the Government of the United States to places where the civil process of the law has no authorized course , it is committed entirely to the functions of the military force to arrest the person of the offender , and after bringing him within the reach of the jurisdiction of the courts there to deliver him into custody for trial . The second makes the violator of the law amenable only after his offense has been consummated , and when he has returned within the civil jurisdiction of the Union . This process , in the first instance , is merely of a civil character , but may in like manner be enforced by calling in , if necessary , the aid of the military force . Entertaining no doubt that in the present case the resort to either of these modes of process , or to both , was within the discretion of the Executive authority , and penetrated with the duty of maintaining the rights of the Indians as secured both by the treaty and the law , I concluded , after full deliberation , to have recourse on this occasion , in the first instance , only to the civil process . Instructions have accordingly been given by the Secretary of War to the attorney and marshal of the United States in the district of Georgia to commence prosecutions against the surveyors complained of as having violated the law , while orders have at the same time been forwarded to the agent of the United States at once to assure the Indians that their rights founded upon the treaty and the law are recognized by this Government and will be faithfully protected , and earnestly to exhort them , by the forbearance of every act of hostility on their part , to preserve unimpaired that right to protection secured to them by the sacred pledge of the good faith of this nation . Copies of these instructions and orders are herewith transmitted to Congress . In abstaining at this stage of the proceedings from the application of any military force I have been governed by considerations which will , I trust , meet the concurrence of the Legislature . Among them one of paramount importance has been that these surveys have been attempted , and partly effected , under color of legal authority from the State of Georgia that the surveyors are , therefore , not to be viewed in the light of individual and solitary transgressors , but as the agents of a sovereign State , acting in obedience to authority which they believed to be binding upon them . Intimations had been given that should they meet with interruption they would at all hazards be sustained by the military force of the State , in which event , if the military force of the Union should have been employed to enforce its violated law , a conflict must have ensued , which would itself have inflicted a wound upon the Union and have presented the aspect of one of these confederated States at war with the rest . Anxious , above all , to avert this state of things , yet at the same time impressed with the deepest conviction of my own duty to take care that the laws shall be executed and the faith of the nation preserved , I have used of the means intrusted to the Executive for that purpose only those which without resorting to military force may vindicate the sanctity of the law by the ordinary agency of the judicial tribunals . It ought not , however , to be disguised that the act of the legislature of Georgia , under the construction given to it by the governor of that State , and the surveys made or attempted by his authority beyond the boundary secured by the treaty of Washington of April last to the Creek Indians , are in direct violation of the supreme law of this land , set forth in a treaty which has received all the sanctions provided by the Constitution which we have been sworn to support and maintain . Happily distributed as the sovereign powers of the people of this Union have been between their General and State Governments , their history has already too often presented collisions between these divided authorities with regard to the extent of their respective powers . No instance , however , has hitherto occurred in which this collision has been urged into a conflict of actual force . No other case is known to have happened in which the application of military force by the Government of the Union has been prescribed for the enforcement of a law the violation of which has within any single State been prescribed by a legislative act of the State . In the present instance it is my duty to say that if the legislative and executive authorities of the State of Georgia should persevere in acts of encroachment upon the territories secured by a solemn treaty to the Indians , and the laws of the Union remain unaltered , a superadded obligation even higher than that of human authority will compel the Executive of the United States to enforce the laws and fulfill the duties of the nation by all the force committed for that purpose to his charge . That the arm of military force will be resorted to only in the event of the failure of all other expedients provided by the laws , a pledge has been given by the forbearance to employ it at this time . It is submitted to the wisdom of Congress to determine whether any further act of legislation may be necessary or expedient to meet the emergency which these transactions may produce .<speech_sep>Fellow citizens of the Senate and of the House of Representatives The assemblage of the representatives of our Union in both Houses of the Congress at this time occurs under circumstances calling for the renewed homage of our grateful acknowledgments to the Giver of All Good . With the exceptions incidental to the most felicitous condition of human existence , we continue to be highly favored in all the elements which contribute to individual comfort and to national prosperity . In the survey of our extensive country we have generally to observe abodes of health and regions of plenty . In our civil and political relations we have peace without and tranquillity within our borders . We are , as a people , increasing with unabated rapidity in population , wealth , and national resources , and whatever differences of opinion exist among us with regard to the mode and the means by which we shall turn the beneficence of Heaven to the improvement of our own condition , there is yet a spirit animating us all which will not suffer the bounties of Providence to be showered upon us in vain , but will receive them with grateful hearts , and apply them with unwearied hands to the advancement of the general good . Of the subjects recommended to Congress at their last session , some were then definitively acted upon . Others , left unfinished , but partly matured , will recur to your attention without needing a renewal of notice from me . The purpose of this communication will be to present to your view the general aspect of our public affairs at this moment and the measures which have been taken to carry into effect the intentions of the legislature as signified by the laws then and heretofore enacted . In our intercourse with the other nations of the earth we have still the happiness of enjoying peace and a general good understanding , qualified , however , in several important instances by collisions of interest and by unsatisfied claims of justice , to the settlement of which the constitutional interposition of the legislative authority may become ultimately indispensable . By the decease of the Emperor Alexander of Russia , which occurred contemporaneously with the commencement of the last session of Congress , the United States have been deprived of a long tried , steady , and faithful friend . Born to the inheritance of absolute power and trained in the school of adversity , from which no power on earth , however absolute , is exempt , that monarch from his youth had been taught to feel the force and value of public opinion and to be sensible that the interests of his own government would best be promoted by a frank and friendly intercourse with this Republic , as those of his people would be advanced by a liberal intercourse with our country . A candid and confidential interchange of sentiments between him and the government of the upon the affairs of Southern America took place at a period not long preceding his demise , and contributed to fix that course of policy which left to the other governments of Europe no alternative but that of sooner or later recognizing the independence of our southern neighbors , of which the example had by the United States already been set . The ordinary diplomatic communications between his successor , the Emperor Nicholas , and the United States have suffered some interruption by the illness , departure , and subsequent decease of his minister residing here , who enjoyed , as he merited , the entire confidence of his new sovereign , as he had eminently responded to that of his predecessor . But we have had the most satisfactory assurances that the sentiments of the reigning Emperor toward the United States are altogether conformable to those which had so long and constantly animated his imperial brother , and we have reason to hope that they will serve to cement that harmony and good understanding between the two nations which , founded in congenial interests , can not but result in the advancement of the welfare and prosperity of both . Our relations of commerce and navigation with France are , by the operation of the convention of 1822 06 24 , with that nation , in a state of gradual and progressive improvement . Convinced by all our experience , no less than by the principles of fair and liberal reciprocity which the United States have constantly tendered to all the nations of the earth as the rule of commercial intercourse which they would universally prefer , that fair and equal competition is most conducive to the interests of both parties , the United States in the negotiation of that convention earnestly contended for a mutual renunciation of discriminating duties and charges in the ports of the two countries . Unable to obtain the immediate recognition of this principle in its full extent , after reducing the duties of discrimination so far as was found attainable it was agreed that at the expiration of two years from 1822 10 01 , when the convention was to go into effect , unless a notice of six months on either side should be given to the other that the convention itself must terminate , those duties should be reduced one fourth , and that this reducation should be yearly repeated , until all discrimination should cease , while the convention itself should continue in force . By the effect of this stipulation three fourths of the discriminating duties which had been levied by each party upon the vessels of the other in its ports have already been removed and on the first of next October , should the convention be still in force , the remaining one fourth will be discontinued . French vessels laden with French produce will be received in our ports on the same terms as our own , and ours in return will enjoy the same advantages in the ports of France . By these approximations to an equality of duties and of charges not only has the commerce between the two countries prospered , but friendly dispositions have been on both sides encouraged and promoted . They will continue to be cherished and cultivated on the part of the United States . It would have been gratifying to have had it in my power to add that the claims upon the justice of the French government , involving the property and the comfortable subsistence of many of our fellow citizens , and which have been so long and so earnestly urged , were in a more promising train of adjustment than at your last meeting but their condition remains unaltered . With the government of the Netherlands the mutual abandonment of discriminating duties had been regulated by legislative acts on both sides . The act of Congress of 1818 04 20 , abolished all discriminating duties of impost and tonnage upon the vessels and produce of the Netherlands in the ports of the United States upon the assurance given by the government of the Netherlands that all such duties operating against the shipping and commerce of the United States in that Kingdom had been abolished . These reciprocal regulations had continued in force several years when the discriminating principle was resumed by the Netherlands in a new and indirect form by a bounty of 10 percent in the shape of a return of duties to their national vessels , and in which those of the United States are not permitted to participate . By the act of Congress of 1824 01 07 , all discriminating duties in the United States were again suspended , so far as related to the vessels and produce of the Netherlands , so long as the reciprocal exemption should be extended to the vessels and produce of the United States in the Netherlands . But the same act provides that in the event of a restoration of discriminating duties to operate against the shipping and commerce of the United States in any of the foreign countries referred to therein the suspension of discriminating duties in favor of the navigation of such foreign country should cease and all the provisions of the acts imposing discriminating foreign tonnage and impost duties in the United States should revive and be in full force with regard to that nation . In the correspondence with the government of the Netherlands upon this subject they have contended that the favor shown to their own shipping by this bounty upon their tonnage is not to be considered a discriminating duty but it can not be denied that it produces all the same effects . Had the mutual abolition been stipulated by treaty , such a bounty upon the national vessels could scarcely have been granted consistent with good faith . Yet as the act of Congress of 1824 01 07 has not expressly authorized the Executive authority to determine what shall be considered as a revival of discriminating duties by a foreign government to the disadvantage of the United States , and as the retaliatory measure on our part , however just and necessary , may tend rather to that conflict of legislation which we deprecate than to that concert to which we invite all commercial nations , as most conducive to their interest and our own , I have thought it more consistent with the spirit of our institutions to refer to the subject again to the paramount authority of the Legislature to decide what measure the emergency may require than abruptly by proclamation to carry into effect the minatory provisions of the act of 1824 . During the last session of Congress treaties of amity , navigation , and commerce were negotiated and signed at this place with the government of Denmark , in Europe , and with the federation of Central America , in this hemisphere . These treaties then received the constitutional sanction of the Senate , by the advice and consent to their ratification . They were accordingly ratified on the part of the S . , and during the recess of Congress have been also ratified by the other respective contracting parties . The ratifications have been exchanged , and they have been published by proclamations , copies of which are herewith communicated to Congress . These treaties have established between the contracting parties the principles of equality and reciprocity in their broadest and most liberal extent , each party admitting the vessels of the other into its ports , laden with cargoes the produce or manufacture of any quarter of the globe , upon the payment of the same duties of tonnage and impost that are chargeable upon their own . They have further stipulated that the parties shall hereafter grant no favor of navigation or commerce to any other nation which shall not upon the same terms be granted to each other , and that neither party will impose upon articles of merchandise the produce or manufacture of the other any other or higher duties than upon the like articles being the produce or manufacture of any other country . To these principles there is in the convention with Denmark an exception with regard to the colonies of that Kingdom in the arctic seas , but none with regard to her colonies in the West Indies . In the course of the last summer the term to which our last commercial treaty with Sweden was limited has expired . A continuation of it is in the contemplation of the Swedish government , and is believed to be desirable on the part of the United States . It has been proposed by the King of Sweden that pending the negotiation of renewal the expired treaty should be mutually considered as still in force , a measure which will require the sanction of Congress to be carried into effect on our part , and which I therefore recommend to your consideration . With Prussia , Spain , Portugal , and , in general , all the European powers between whom and the United States relations of friendly intercourse have existed their condition has not materially varied since the last session of Congress . I regret not to be able to say the same of our commercial intercourse with the colonial possessions of Great Britain in America . Negotiations of the highest importance to our common interests have been for several years in discussion between the two governments , and on the part of the United States have been invariably pursued in the spirit of candor and conciliation . Interests of great magnitude and delicacy had been adjusted by the conventions of 1815 and 1818 , while that of 1822 , mediated by the late Emperor Alexander , had promised a satisfactory compromise of claims which the government of the S . , in justice to the rights of a numerous class of their citizens , was bound to sustain . But with regard to the commercial intercourse between the United States and the British colonies in America , it has been hitherto found impracticable to bring the parties to an understanding satisfactory to both . The relative geographical position and the respective products of nature cultivated by human industry had constituted the elements of a commercial intercourse between the United States and British America , insular and continental , important to the inhabitants of both countries but it had been interdicted by Great Britain upon a principle heretofore practiced upon by the colonizing nations of Europe , of holding the trade of their colonies each in exclusive monopoly to herself . After the termination of the late war this interdiction had been revived , and the British government declined including this portion of our intercourse with her possessions in the negotiation of the convention of 1815 . The trade was then carried on exclusively in British vessels til the act of Congress , concerning navigation , of 1818 and the supplemental act of 1820 met the interdict by a corresponding measure on the part of the United States . These measures , not of retaliation , but of necessary self defense , were soon succeeded by an act of Parliament opening certain colonial ports to the vessels of the United States coming directly from them , and to the importation from them of certain articles of our produce burdened with heavy duties , and excluding some of the most valuable articles of our exports . The United States opened their ports to British vessels from the colonies upon terms as exactly corresponding with those of the act of Parliament as in the relative position of the parties could be made , and a negotiation was commenced by mutual consent , with the hope on our part that a reciprocal spirit of accommodation and a common sentiment of the importance of the trade to the interests of the inhabitants of the two countries between whom it must be carried on would ultimately bring the parties to a compromise with which both might be satisfied . With this view the government of the United States had determined to sacrifice something of that entire reciprocity which in all commercial arrangements with foreign powers they are entitled to demand , and to acquiesce in some inequalities disadvantageous to ourselves rather than to forego the benefit of a final and permanent adjustment of this interest to the satisfaction of Great Britain herself . The negotiation , repeatedly suspended by accidental circumstances , was , however , by mutual agreement and express assent , considered as pending and to be speedily resumed . In the mean time another act of Parliament , so doubtful and ambiguous in its import as to have been misunderstood by the officers in the colonies who were to carry it into execution , opens again certain colonial ports upon new conditions and terms , with a threat to close them against any nation which may not accept those terms as prescribed by the British government . This act , passed 1825 07 , not communicated to the government of the S . , not understood by the British officers of the customs in the colonies where it was to be enforced , was never the less submitted to the consideration of Congress at their last session . With the knowledge that a negotiation upon the subject had long been in progress and pledges given of its resumption at an early day , it was deemed expedient to await the result of that negotiation rather than to subscribe implicitly to terms the import of which was not clear and which the British authorities themselves in this hemisphere were not prepared to explain . Immediately after the close of the last session of Congress one of our most distinguished citizens was dispatched as envoy extraordinary and minister plenipotentiary to Great Britain , furnished with instructions which we could not doubt would lead to a conclusion of this long controverted interest upon terms acceptable to Great Britain . Upon his arrival , and before he had delivered his letters of credence , he was bet by an order of the British council excluding from and after the first of December now current the vessels of the United States from all the colonial British ports excepting those immediately bordering on our territories . In answer to his expostulations upon a measure thus unexpected he is informed that according to the ancient maxims of policy of European nations having colonies their trade is an exclusive possession of the mother country that all participation in it by other nations is a boon or favor not forming a subject of negotiation , but to be regulated by the legislative acts of the power owning the colony that the British government therefore declines negotiating concerning it , and that as the did not forthwith accept purely and simply the terms offered by the act of Parliament of 1825 07 , Great Britain would not now admit the vessels of the United States even upon the terms on which she has opened them to the navigation of other nations . We have been accustomed to consider the trade which we have enjoyed with the British colonies rather as an interchange of mutual benefits than as a mere favor received that under every circumstance we have given an ample equivalent . We have seen every other nation holding colonies negotiate with other nations and grant them freely admission to the colonies by treaty , and so far are the other colonizing nations of Europe now from refusing to negotiate for trade with their colonies that we ourselves have secured access to the colonies of more than one of them by treaty . The refusal , however , of Great Britain to negotiate leaves to the United States no other alternative than that of regulating or interdicting altogether the trade on their part , according as either measure may effect the interests of our own country , and with that exclusive object I would recommend the whole subject to your calm and candid deliberations . It is hoped that our unavailing exertions to accomplish a cordial good understanding on this interest will not have an unpropitious effect upon the other great topics of discussion between the two governments . Our northeastern and northwestern boundaries are still unadjusted . The commissioners under the seventh article of the Treaty of Ghent have nearly come to the close of their labors nor can we renounce the expectation , enfeebled as it is , that they may agree upon their report to the satisfaction or acquiescence of both parties . The commission for liquidating the claims for indemnity for slaves carried away after the close of the war has been sitting , with doubtful prospects of success . Propositions of compromise have , however , passed between the two governments , the result of which we flatter ourselves may yet prove unsatisfactory . Our own dispositions and purposes toward Great Britain are all friendly and conciliatory nor can we abandon but with strong reluctance the belief that they will ultimately meet a return , not of favors , which we neither as nor desire , but of equal reciprocity and good will . With the American governments of this hemisphere we continue to maintain an intercourse altogether friendly , and between their nations and ours that commercial interchange of which mutual benefit is the source of mutual comfort and harmony the result is in a continual state of improvement . The war between Spain and them since the total expulsion of the Spanish military force from their continental territories has been little more than nominal , and their internal tranquillity , though occasionally menaced by the agitations which civil wars never fail to leave behind them , has not been affected by any serious calamity . The congress of ministers from several of those nations which assembled at Panama , after a short session there , adjourned to meet again at a more favorable season in the neighborhood of Mexico . The decease of one of our ministers on his way to the Isthmus , and the impediments of the season , which delayed the departure of the other , deprived United States of the advantage of being represented at the first meeting of the Congress . There is , however , no reason to believe that any transactions of the congress were of a nature to affect injuriously the interests of the United States or to require the interposition of our ministers had they been present . Their absence has , indeed , deprived United States of the opportunity of possessing precise and authentic information of the treaties which were concluded at Panama and the whole result has confirmed me in the conviction of the expediency to the United States of being represented at the congress . The surviving member of the mission , appointed during your last session , has accordingly proceeded to his destination , and a successor to his distinguished and lamented associate will be nominated to the Senate . A treaty of amity , navigation , and commerce has in the course of the last summer been concluded by our minister plenipotentiary at Mexico with the united states of that Confederacy , which will also be laid before the Senate for their advice with regard to its ratification . In adverting to the present condition of our fiscal concerns and to the prospects of our revenue the first remark that calls our attention is that they are less exuberantly prosperous than they were at the corresponding period of the last year . The severe shock so extensively sustained by the commercial and manufacturing interests in Great Britain has not been without a perceptible recoil upon ourselves . A reduced importation from abroad is necessarily succeeded by a reduced return to the Treasury at home . The net revenue of the present year will not equal that of the last , and the receipts of that which is to come will fall short of those in the current year . The diminution , however , is in part attributable to the flourishing condition of some of our domestic manufactures , and so far is compensated by an equivalent more profitable to the nation . It is also highly gratifying to perceive that the deficiency in the revenue , while it scarcely exceeds the anticipations of the last year s estimate from the Treasury , has not interrupted the application of more than 11 million during the present year to the discharge of the principal and interest of the debt , nor the reduction of upward of 7 , 000 , 000 of the capital of the debt itself . The balance in the Treasury on the first of January last was 5 , 201 , 650 . 43 the receipts from that time to the 30th of September last were 19 , 585 , 932 . 50 the receipts of the current quarter , estimated at 6 , 000 , 000 , yield , with the sums already received , a revenue of about 25 , 500 , 000 for the year the expenditures for the first three quarters of the year have amounted to 18 , 714 , 226 . 66 the expenditures of the current quarter are expected , including the 2 , 000 , 000 of the principal of the debt to be paid , to balance the receipts so that the expense of the year , amounting to upward of 1 , 000 , 000 less than its income , will leave a proportionally increased balance in the Treasury on 1827 01 01 , over that of the first of January last instead of 5 , 200 , 000 there will be 6 , 400 , 000 . The amount of duties secured on merchandise imported from the commence of the year til September 30 is estimated at 21 , 250 , 000 , and the amount that will probably accrue during the present quarter is estimated at 4 , 250 , 000 , making for the whole year 25 , 500 , 000 , from which the draw backs being deducted will leave a clear revenue from the customs receivable in the year 1827 of about 20 , 400 , 000 , which , with the sums to be received from the proceeds of public lands , the bank dividends , and other incidental receipts , will form an aggregate of about 23 , 000 , 000 , a sum falling short of the whole expenses of the present year little more than the portion of those expenditures applied to the discharge of the public debt beyond the annual appropriation of 10 , 000 , 000 by the act of 1817 03 03 . At the passage of that act the public debt amounted to 123 , 500 , 000 . On the first of January next it will be short of 74 , 000 , 000 . In the lapse of these 10 years 50 , 000 , 000 of public debt , with the annual charge of upward of 3 , 000 , 000 of interest upon them , have been extinguished . At the passage of tat act , of the annual appropriation of 10 , 000 , 000 , 7 , 000 , 000 were absorbed in the payment of interest , and not more than 3 , 000 , 000 went to reduce the capital of the debt . Of the same 10 , 000 , 000 , at this time scarcely 4 , 000 , 000 are applicable to the interest and upward of 6 , 000 , 000 are effective in melting down the capital . Yet our experience has proved that a revenue consisting so largely of imposts and tonnage ebbs and flows to an extraordinary extent , with all the fluctuations incident to the general commerce of the world . It is within our recollection that even in the compass of the same last 10 years the receipts of the Treasury were not adequate to the expenditures of the year , and that in two successive years it was found necessary to resort to loans to meet the engagements of the nation . The returning tides of the succeeding years replenished the public coffers until they have again begun to feel the vicissitude of a decline . To produce these alternations of fullness and exhaustion the relative operation of abundant or unfruitful seasons , the regulations of foreign governments , political revolutions , the prosperous or decaying condition of manufactures , commercial speculations , and many other causes , not always to be traced , variously combine . We have found the alternate swells and diminutions embracing periods of from two to three years . The last period of depression to United States was from 1819 to 1822 . The corresponding revival was from 1823 to the commencement of the present year . Still , we have no cause to apprehend a depression comparable to that of the former period , or even to anticipate a deficiency which will intrench upon the ability to apply the annual 10 million to the reduction of the debt . It is well for us , however , to be admonished of the necessity of abiding by the maxims of the most vigilant economy , and of resorting to all honorable and useful expedients for pursuing with steady and inflexible perseverance the total discharge of the debt . Besides the 7 , 000 , 000 of the loans of 1813 which will have been discharged in the course of the present year , there are 9 , 000 , 000 which by the terms of the contracts would have been and are now redeemable . 13 , 000 , 000 more of the loan of 1814 will become redeemable from and after the expiration of the present month , and 9 , 000 , 000 other from and after the close of the ensuing year . They constitute a mass of 31 , 000 , 000 , all bearing an interest of 6 percent , more than 20 , 000 , 000 of which will be immediately redeemable , and the rest within little more than a year . Leaving of this amount 15 , 000 , 000 to continue at the interest of 6 percent , but to be paid off as far as shall be found practicable in the years 1827 and 1828 , there is scarcely a doubt that the remaining 16 , 000 , 000 might within a few months be discharged by a loan at not exceeding 5 percent , redeemable in the years 1829 and 1830 . By this operation a sum of nearly 500 , 000 may be saved to the nation , and the discharge of the whole 31 , 000 , 000 within the four years may be greatly facilitated if not wholly accomplished . By an act of Congress of 1835 03 03 , a loan for the purpose now referred to , or a subscription to stock , was authorized , at an interest not exceeding 4 . 5 percent . But at that time so large a portion of the floating capital of the country was absorbed in commercial speculations and so little was left for investment in the stocks that the measure was but partially successful . At the last session of Congress the condition of the funds was still unpropitious to the measure but the change so soon afterwards occurred that , had the authority existed to redeem the 9 million now redeemable by an exchange of stocks or a loan at 5 percent , it is morally certain that it might have been effected , and with it a yearly saving of 90 , 000 . With regard to the collection of the revenue of imposts , certain occurrences have within the last year been disclosed in one or two of our principal ports , which engaged the attention of Congress at their last session and may hereafter require further consideration . Until within a very few years the execution of the laws for raising the revenue , like that of all our other laws , has been insured more by the moral sense of the community than by the rigors of a jealous precaution or by penal sanction . Confiding in the exemplary punctuality and unsullied integrity of our importing merchants , a gradual relaxation from the provisions of the collection laws , a close adherence to which have caused inconvenience and expense to them , had long become habitual , and indulgences had been extended universally because they had never been abused . It may be worthy of your serious consideration whether some further legislative provision may not be necessary to come in aid of this state of unguarded security . From the reports herewith communicated of the Secretaries of War and of the Navy , with the subsidiary documents annexed to them , will be discovered the present condition and administration of our military establishment on the land and on the sea . The organization of the Army having undergone no change since its reduction to the present peace establishment in 1821 , it remains only to observe that it is yet found adequate to all the purposes for which a permanent armed force in time of peace can be needed or useful . It may be proper to add that , from a difference of opinion between the late President of the United States and the Senate with regard to the construction of the act of Congress of 1821 03 02 , to reduce and fix the military peace establishment of the S . , it remains hitherto so far without execution that no colonel has been appointed to command one of the regiments of artillery . A supplementary or explanatory act of the legislature appears to be the only expedient practicable for removing the difficulty of this appointment . In a period of profound peace the conduct of the mere military establishment forms but a very inconsiderable portion of the duties devolving upon the administration of the Department of War . It will be seen by the returns from the subordinate departments of the Army that every branch of the service is marked with order , regularity , and discipline that from the commanding general through all the gradations of superintendence the officers feel themselves to have been citizens before they were soldiers , and that the glory of a republican army must consist in the spirit of freedom , by which it is animated , and of patriotism , by which it is impelled . It may be confidently stated that the moral character of the Army is in a state of continual improvement , and that all the arrangements for the disposal of its parts have a constant reference to that end . But to the War Department are attributed other duties , having , indeed , relation to a future possible condition of war , but being purely defensive , and in their tendency contributing rather to the security and permanency of peace the erection of the fortifications provided for by Congress , and adapted to secure our shores from hostile invasion the distribution of the fund of public gratitude and justice to the pensioners of the Revolutionary war the maintenance of our relations of peace and protection with the Indian tribes , and the internal improvements and surveys for the location of roads and canals , which during the last three sessions of Congress have engaged so much of their attention , and may engross so large a share of their future benefactions to our country . By the act of 1824 04 30 , suggested and approved by my predecessor , the sum of 30 , 000 was appropriated for the purpose of causing to be made the necessary surveys , plans , and estimates of the routes of such roads and canals as the President of the United States might deem of national importance in a commercial or military point of view , or necessary for the transportation of the public mail . The surveys , plans , and estimates for each , when completed , will be laid before Congress . In execution of this act a board of engineers was immediately instituted , and have been since most assiduously and constantly occupied in carrying it into effect . The first object to which their labors were directed , by order of the late President , was the examination of the country between the tide waters of the Potomac , the Ohio , and Lake Erie , to ascertain the practicability of a communication between them , to designate the most suitable route for the same , and to form plans and estimates in detail of the expense of execution . On 1825 02 03 , they made their first report , which was immediately communicated to Congress , and in which they declared that having maturely considered the circumstances observed by them personally , and carefully studied the results of such of the preliminary surveys as were then completed , they were decidedly of opinion that the communication was practicable . At the last session of Congress , before the board of engineers were enabled to make up their second report containing a general plan and preparatory estimate for the work , the Committee of the House of Representatives upon Roads and Canals closed the session with a report expressing the hope that the plan and estimate of the board of engineers might at this time be prepared , and that the subject be referred to the early and favorable consideration of Congress at their present session . That expected report of the board of engineers is prepared , and will forthwith be laid before you . Under the resolution of Congress authorizing the Secretary of War to have prepared a complete system of cavalry tactics , and a system of exercise and instruction of field artillery , for the use of the militia of the S . , to be reported to Congress at the present session , a board of distinguished officers of the Army and of the militia has been convened , whose report will be submitted to you with that of the Secretary of War . The occasion was thought favorable for consulting the same board , aided by the results of a correspondence with the governors of the several states and territories and other citizens of intelligence and experience , upon the acknowledged defective condition of our militia system , and of the improvements of which it is susceptible . The report of the board upon this subject is also submitted for your consideration . In the estimates of appropriations for the ensuing year upward of 5 million will be submitted for the expenditures to be paid from the Department of War . Less than two fifths of this will be applicable to the maintenance and support of the Army . 1 , 500 , 000 , in the form of pensions , goes as a scarcely adequate tribute to the services and sacrifices of a former age , and a more than equal sum invested in fortifications , or for the preparations of internal improvement , provides for the quiet , the comfort , and happier existence of the ages to come . The appropriations to indemnify those unfortunate remnants of another race unable alike to share in the enjoyments and to exist in the presence of civilization , though swelling in recent years to a magnitude burdensome to the Treasury , are generally not without their equivalents in profitable value , or serve to discharge the Union from engagements more burdensome than debt . In like manner the estimate of appropriations for the Navy Department will present an aggregate sum of upward of 3 million . About half of these , however , covers the current expenditures of the Navy in actual service , and half constitutes a fund of national property , the pledge of our future glory and defense . It was scarcely one short year after the close of the late war , and when the burden of its expenses and charges was weighing heaviest upon the country , that Congress , by the act of 1816 04 29 , appropriated 1 million annually for eight years to the gradual increase of the Navy . At a subsequent period this annual appropriation was reduced to 0 , 500 , 000 for six years , of which the present year is the last . A yet more recent appropriation the last two years , for building 10 sloops of war , has nearly restored the original appropriation of 1816 of 1 million for every year . The result is before United States all . We have 12 line of battle ships , 20 frigates , and sloops of war in proportion , which , with a few months preparation , may present a line of floating fortifications along the whole range of our coast ready to meet any invader who might attempt to set foot upon our shores . Combining with a system of fortifications upon the shores themselves , commenced about the same time under the auspices of my immediate predecessor , and hitherto systematically pursued , it has placed in our possession the most effective sinews of war and has left us at once an example and a lesson from which our own duties may be inferred . The gradual increase of the Navy was the principle of which the act of 1816 04 29 , was the first development . It was the introduction of a system to act upon the character and history of our country for an indefinite series of ages . It was a declaration of that Congress to their constituents and to posterity that it was the destiny and the duty of these confederated states to become in regular process of time and by no petty advances a great naval power . That which they proposed to accomplish in eight years is rather to be considered as the measure of their means that the limitation of their design . They looked forward for a term of years sufficient for the accomplishment of a definite portion of their purpose , and they left to their successors to fill up the canvas of which they had traced the large and prophetic outline . The ships of the line and frigates which they had in contemplation will be shortly completed . The time which they had allotted for the accomplishment of the work has more than elapsed . It remains for your consideration how their successors may contribute their portion of toil and of treasure for the benefit of the succeeding age in the gradual increase of our Navy . There is perhaps no part of the exercise of the constitutional powers of the federal government which has given more general satisfaction to the people of the Union than this . The system has not been thus vigorously introduced and hitherto sustained to be now departed from or abandoned . In continuing to provide for the gradual increase of the Navy it may not be necessary or expedient to add for the present any more to the number of our ships but should you deem it advisable to continue the yearly appropriation of 0 . 5 million to the same objects , it may be profitably expended in a providing a supply of timber to be seasoned and other materials for future use in the construction of docks or in laying the foundations of a school for naval education , as to the wisdom of Congress either of those measures may appear to claim the preference . Of the small portions of this Navy engaged in actual service during the peace , squadrons have continued to be maintained in the Pacific Ocean , in the West India seas , and in the Mediterranean , to which has been added a small armament to cruise on the eastern coast of South America . In all they have afforded protection to our commerce , have contributed to make our country advantageously known to foreign nations , have honorably employed multitudes of our sea men in the service of their country , and have inured numbers of youths of the rising generation to lives of manly hardihood and of nautical experience and skill . The piracies with which the West India seas were for several years infested have been totally suppressed , but in the Mediterranean they have increased in a manner afflictive to other nations , and but for the continued presence of our squadron would probably have been distressing to our own . The war which has unfortunately broken out between the republic of Buenos Aires and the Brazilian government has given rise to very great irregularities among the naval officers of the latter , by whom principles in relation to blockades and to neutral navigation have been brought forward to which we can not subscribe and which our own commanders have found it necessary to resist . From the friendly disposition toward the United States constantly manifested by the Emperor of Brazil , and the very useful and friendly commercial intercourse between the United States and his dominions , we have reason to believe that the just reparation demanded for the injuries sustained by several of our citizens from some of his officers will not be withheld . Abstracts from the recent dispatches of the commanders of our several squadrons are communicated with the report of the Secretary of the Navy to Congress . A report from the Postmaster General is likewise communicated , presenting in a highly satisfactory manner the result of a vigorous , efficient , and economical administration of that department . The revenue of the office , even of the year including the latter half of 1824 and the first half of 1825 , had exceeded its expenditures by a sum of more than 45 , 000 . That of the succeeding year has been still more productive . The increase of the receipts in the year preceding the first of July last over that of the year before exceeds 136 , 000 , and the excess of the receipts over the expenditures of the year has swollen from 45 , 000 to yearly 80 , 000 . During the same period contracts for additional transportation of the mail in stages for about 260 , 000 miles have been made , and for 70 , 000 miles annually on horse back . 714 new post offices have been established within the year , and the increase of revenue within the last three years , as well as the augmentation of the transportation by mail , is more than equal to the whole amount of receipts and of mail conveyance at the commencement of the present century , when the seat of the general government was removed to this place . When we reflect that the objects effected by the transportation of the mail are among the choicest comforts and enjoyments of social life , it is pleasing to observe that the dissemination of them to every corner of our country has outstripped in their increase even the rapid march of our population . By the treaties with France and Spain , respectively ceding Louisiana and the Floridas to the United States , provision was made for the security of land titles derived from the governments of those nations . Some progress has been made under the authority of various acts of Congress in the ascertainment and establishment of those titles , but claims to a very large extent remain unadjusted . The public faith no less than the just rights of individuals and the interest of the community itself appears to require further provision for the speedy settlement of those claims , which I therefore recommend to the care and attention of the Legislature . In conformity with the provisions of the act of 1825 05 20 , to provide for erecting a penitentiary in the District of Columbia , and for other purposes , three commissioners were appointed to select a site for the erection of a penitentiary for the District , and also a site in the county of Alexandria for a county jail , both of which objects have been effected . The building of the penitentiary has been commenced , and is in such a degree of forwardness as to promise that it will be completed before the meeting of the next Congress . This consideration points to the expediency of maturing at the present session a system for the regulation and government of the penitentiary , and of defining a system for the regulation and government of the penitentiary , and of defining the class of offenses which shall be punishable by confinement in this edifice . In closing this communication I trust that it will not be deemed inappropriate to the occasion and purposes upon which we are here assembled to indulge a momentary retrospect , combining in a single glance the period of our origin as a national confederation with that of our present existence , at the precise interval of half a century from each other . Since your last meeting at this place the 50th anniversary of the day when our independence was declared has been celebrated throughout our land , and on that day , while every heart was bounding with joy and every voice was tuned to gratulation , amid the blessings of freedom and independence which the sires of a former age had handed down to their children , two of the principal actors in that solemn scene the hand that penned the ever memorable Declaration and the voice that sustained it in debate were by one summons , at the distance of 700 miles from each other , called before the Judge of All to account for their deeds done upon earth . They departed cheered by the benedictions of their country , to whom they left the inheritance of their fame and the memory of their bright example . If we turn our thoughts to the condition of their country , in the contrast of the first and last day of that half century , how resplendent and sublime is the transition from gloom to glory Then , glancing through the same lapse of time , in the condition of the individuals we see the first day marked with the fullness and vigor of youth , in the pledge of their lives , their fortunes , and their sacred honor to the cause of freedom and of mankind and on the last , extended on the bed of death , with but sense and sensibility left to breathe a last aspiration to Heaven of blessing upon their country , may we not humbly hope that to them too it was a pledge of transition from gloom to glory , and that while their mortal vestments were sinking into the clod of the valley their emancipated spirits were ascending to the bosom of their God<speech_sep>Fellow citizens of the Senate and of the House of Representatives In taking a general survey of the concerns of our beloved country , with reference to subjects interesting to the common welfare , the first sentiment which impresses itself upon the mind is of gratitude to the Omnipotent Disposer of All Good for the continuance of the signal blessings of His providence , and especially for that health which to an unusual extent has prevailed within our borders , and for that abundance which in the vicissitudes of the seasons has been scattered with profusion over our land . Nor ought we less to ascribe to Him the glory that we are permitted to enjoy the bounties of His hand in peace and tranquillity in peace with all the other nations of the earth , in tranquillity among our selves . There has , indeed , rarely been a period in the history of civilized man in which the general condition of the Christian nations has been marked so extensively by peace and prosperity . Europe , with a few partial and unhappy exceptions , has enjoyed 10 years of peace , during which all her governments , what ever the theory of their constitutions may have been , are successively taught to feel that the end of their institution is the happiness of the people , and that the exercise of power among men can be justified only by the blessings it confers upon those over whom it is extended . During the same period our intercourse with all those nations has been pacific and friendly it so continues . Since the close of your last session no material variation has occurred in our relations with any one of them . In the commercial and navigation system of Great Britain important changes of municipal regulation have recently been sanctioned by acts of Parliament , the effect of which upon the interests of other nations , and particularly upon ours , has not yet been fully developed . In the recent renewal of the diplomatic missions on both sides between the two governments assurances have been given and received of the continuance and increase of the mutual confidence and cordiality by which the adjustment of many points of difference had already been effected , and which affords the surest pledge for the ultimate satisfactory adjustment of those which still remain open or may hereafter arise . The policy of the United States in their commercial intercourse with other nations has always been of the most liberal character . In the mutual exchange of their respective productions they have abstained altogether from prohibitions they have interdicted themselves the power of laying taxes upon exports , and when ever they have favored their own shipping by special preferences or exclusive privileges in their own ports it has been only with a view to countervail similar favors and exclusions granted by the nations with whom we have been engaged in traffic to their own people or shipping , and to the disadvantage of ours . Immediately after the close of the last war a proposal was fairly made by the act of Congress of 1815 03 03 , to all the maritime nations to lay aside the system of retaliating restrictions and exclusions , and to place the shipping of both parties to the common trade on a footing of equality in respect to the duties of tonnage and impost . This offer was partially and successively accepted by Great Britain , Sweden , the Netherlands , the Hanseatic cities , Prussia , Sardinia , the Duke of Oldenburg , and Russia . It was also adopted , under certain modifications , in our late commercial convention with France , and by the act of Congress of 1824 01 08 , it has received a new confirmation with all the nations who had acceded to it , and has been offered again to all those who are or may here after be willing to abide in reciprocity by it . But all these regulations , whether established by treaty or by municipal enactments , are still subject to one important restriction . The removal of discriminating duties of tonnage and of impost is limited to articles of the growth , produce , or manufacture of the country to which the vessel belongs or to such articles as are most usually first shipped from her ports . It will deserve the serious consideration of Congress whether even this remnant of restriction may not be safely abandoned , and whether the general tender of equal competition made in the act of 1824 01 08 , may not be extended to include all articles of merchandise not prohibited , of what country so ever they may be the produce or manufacture . Propositions of this effect have already been made to us by more than one European government , and it is probable that if once established by legislation or compact with any distinguished maritime state it would recommend itself by the experience of its advantages to the general accession of all . The convention of commerce and navigation between the United States and France , concluded on 1822 06 24 , was , in the understanding and intent of both parties , as appears upon its face , only a temporary arrangement of the points of difference between them of the most immediate and pressing urgency . It was limited in the first instance to two years from 1822 10 01 , but with a proviso that it should further continue in force til the conclusion of a general and definitive treaty of commerce , unless terminated by a notice , six months in advance , of either of the parties to the other . Its operation so far as it extended has been mutually advantageous , and it still continues in force by common consent . But it left unadjusted several objects of great interest to the citizens and subjects of both countries , and particularly a mass of claims to considerable amount of citizens of the United States upon the government of France of indemnity for property taken or destroyed under circumstances of the most aggravated and outrageous character . In the long period during which continual and earnest appeals have been made to the equity and magnanimity of France in behalf of these claims their justice has not been , as it could not be , denied . It was hoped that the accession of a new Sovereign to the throne would have afforded a favorable opportunity for presenting them to the consideration of his government . They have been presented and urged hither to without effect . The repeated and earnest representations of our minister at the Court of France remain as yet even without an answer . Were the demands of nations upon the justice of each other susceptible of adjudication by the sentence of an impartial tribunal , those to which I now refer would long since have been settled and adequate indemnity would have been obtained . There are large amounts of similar claims upon the Netherlands , Naples , and Denmark . For those upon Spain prior to 1819 indemnity was , after many years of patient forbearance , obtained and those upon Sweden have been lately compromised by a private settlement , in which the claimants themselves have acquiesced . The governments of Denmark and of Naples have been recently reminded of those yet existing against them , nor will any of them be forgotten while a hope may be indulged of obtaining justice by the means within the constitutional power of the executive , and without resorting to those means of self redress which , as well as the time , circumstances , and occasion which may require them , are within the exclusive competency of the legislature . It is with great satisfaction that I am enabled to bear witness to the liberal spirit with which the Republic of Colombia has made satisfaction for well established claims of a similar character , and among the documents now communicated to Congress will be distinguished a treaty of commerce and navigation with that Republic , the ratifications of which have been exchanged since the last recess of the legislature . The negotiation of similar treaties with all of the independent South American states has been contemplated and may yet be accomplished . The basis of them all , as proposed by the United States , has been laid in two principles the one of entire and unqualified reciprocity , the other the mutual obligation of the parties to place each other permanently upon the footing of the most favored nation . These principles are , indeed , indispensable to the effectual emancipation of the American hemisphere from the thralldom of colonizing monopolies and exclusions , an event rapidly realizing in the progress of human affairs , and which the resistance still opposed in certain parts of Europe to the acknowledgment of the Southern American republics as independent states will , it is believed , contribute more effectually to accomplish . The time has been , and that not remote , when some of those states might , in their anxious desire to obtain a nominal recognition , have accepted of a nominal independence , clogged with burdensome conditions , and exclusive commercial privileges granted to the nation from which they have separated to the disadvantage of all others . They are all now aware that such concessions to any European nation would be incompatible with that independence which they have declared and maintainedAmong the measures which have been suggested to them by the new relations with one another , resulting from the recent changes in their condition , is that of assembling at the Isthmus of Panama a congress , at which each of them should be represented , to deliberate upon objects important to the welfare of all . The republics of Colombia , of Mexico , and of Central America have already deputed plenipotentiaries to such a meeting , and they have invited the United States to be also represented there by their ministers . The invitation has been accepted , and ministers on the part of the United States will be commissioned to attend at those deliberations , and to take part in them so far as may be compatible with that neutrality from which it is neither our intention nor the desire of the other American states that we should depart . The commissioners under the seventh article of the Treaty of Ghent have so nearly completed their arduous labors that , by the report recently received from the agent on the part of the United States , there is reason to expect that the commission will be closed at their next session , appointed for May 22 of the ensuing year . The other commission , appointed to ascertain the indemnities due for slaves carried away from the United States after the close of the late war , have met with some difficulty , which has delayed their progress in the inquiry . A reference has been made to the British government on the subject , which , it may be hoped , will tend to hasten the decision of the commissioners , or serve as a substitute for it . Among the powers specifically granted to Congress by the Constitution are those of establishing uniform laws on the subject of bankruptcies throughout the United States and of providing for organizing , arming , and disciplining the militia and for governing such part of them as may be employed in the services of the United States . The magnitude and complexity of the interests affected by legislation upon these subjects may account for the fact that , long and often as both of them have occupied the attention and animated the debates of Congress , no systems have yet been devised for fulfilling to the satisfaction of the community the duties prescribed by these grants of power . To conciliate the claim of the individual citizen to the enjoyment of personal liberty , with the effective obligation of private contracts , is the difficult problem to be solved by a law of bankruptcy . These are objects of the deepest interest to society , affecting all that is precious in the existence of multitudes of persons , many of them in the classes essentially dependent and helpless , of the age requiring nurture , and of the sex entitled to protection from the free agency of the parent and the husband . The organization of the militia is yet more indispensable to the liberties of the country . It is only by an effective militia that we can at once enjoy the repose of peace and bid defiance to foreign aggression it is by the militia that we are constituted an armed nation , standing in perpetual panoply of defense in the presence of all the other nations of the earth . To this end it would be necessary , if possible , so to shape its organization as to give it a more united and active energy . There are laws establishing an uniform militia throughout the United States and for arming and equipping its whole body . But it is a body of dislocated members , without the vigor of unity and having little of uniformity but the name . To infuse into this most important institution the power of which it is susceptible and to make it available for the defense of the Union at the shortest notice and at the smallest expense possible of time , of life , and of treasure are among the benefits to be expected from the persevering deliberations of Congress . Among the unequivocal indications of our national prosperity is the flourishing state of our finances . The revenues of the present year , from all their principal sources , will exceed the anticipations of the last . The balance in the Treasury on the first of January last was a little short of 2 , 000 , 000 , exclusive of 2 , 500 , 000 , being the moiety of the loan of 5 , 000 , 000 authorized by the act of 1824 05 26 . The receipts into the Treasury from the 1st of January to the 30th of September , exclusive of the other moiety of the same loan , are estimated at 16 , 500 , 000 , and it is expected that those of the current quarter will exceed 5 , 000 , 000 , forming an aggregate of receipts of nearly 22 , 000 , 000 , independent of the loan . The expenditures of the year will not exceed that sum more than 2 , 000 , 000 . By those expenditures nearly 8 , 000 , 000 of the principal of the public debt that have been discharged . More than 1 , 500 , 000 has been devoted to the debt of gratitude to the warriors of the Revolution a nearly equal sum to the construction of fortifications and the acquisition of ordnance and other permanent preparations of national defense 500 , 000 to the gradual increase of the Navy an equal sum for purchases of territory from the Indians and payment of annuities to them and upward of 1 , 000 , 000 for objects of internal improvement authorized by special acts of the last Congress . If we add to these 4 , 000 , 000 for payment of interest upon the public debt , there remains a sum of 7 , 000 , 000 , which have defrayed the whole expense of the administration of government in its legislative , executive , and judiciary departments , including the support of the military and naval establishments and all the occasional contingencies of a government coextensive with the Union . The amount of duties secured on merchandise imported since the commencement of the year is about 25 , 500 , 000 , and that which will accrue during the current quarter is estimated at 5 , 500 , 000 from these 31 , 000 , 000 , deducting the drawbacks , estimated at less than 7 , 000 , 000 , a sum exceeding 24 , 000 , 000 will constitute the revenue of the year , and will exceed the whole expenditures of the year . The entire amount of the public debt remaining due on the first of January next will be short of 81 , 000 , 000 . By an act of Congress of the 3rd of March last a loan of 12 , 000 , 000 was authorized at 4 . 5 percent , or an exchange of stock to that amount of 4 . 5 percent for a stock of 6 percent , to create a fund for extinguishing an equal amount of the public debt , bearing an interest of 6 percent , redeemable in 1826 . An account of the measures taken to give effect to this act will be laid before you by the Secretary of the Treasury . As the object which it had in view has been but partially accomplished , it will be for the consideration of Congress whether the power with which it clothed the executive should not be renewed at an early day of the present session , and under what modifications . The act of Congress of the 3rd of March last , directing the Secretary of the Treasury to subscribe , in the name and for the use of the United States , for 1 , 500 shares of the capital stock of the Chesapeake and Delaware Canal Company , has been executed by the actual subscription for the amount specified and such other measures have been adopted by that officer , under the act , as the fulfillment of its intentions requires . The latest accounts received of this important undertaking authorize the belief that it is in successful progress . The payments into the Treasury from the proceeds of the sales of the public lands during the present year were estimated at 1 , 000 , 000 . The actual receipts of the first two quarters have fallen very little short of that sum it is not expected that the second half of the year will be equally productive , but the income of the year from that source may now be safely estimated at 1 , 500 , 000 . The act of Congress of 1824 05 18 , to provide for the extinguishment of the debt due to the United States by the purchasers of public lands , was limited in its operation of relief to the purchaser to the 10th of April last . Its effect at the end of the quarter during which it expired was to reduce that debt from 10 , 000 , 000 to 7 , 000 , 000 By the operation of similar prior laws of relief , from and since that of 1821 03 02 , the debt had been reduced from upward of 22 , 000 , 000 to 10 , 000 , 000 . It is exceedingly desirable that it should be extinguished altogether and to facilitate that consummation I recommend to Congress the revival for one year more of the act of 1824 05 18 , with such provisional modification as may be necessary to guard the public interests against fraudulent practices in the resale of the relinquished land . The purchasers of public lands are among the most useful of our fellow citizens , and since the system of sales for cash alone has been introduced great indulgence has been justly extended to those who had previously purchased upon credit . The debt which had been contracted under the credit sales had become unwieldy , and its extinction was alike advantageous to the purchaser and to the public . Under the system of sales , matured as it has been by experience , and adapted to the exigencies of the times , the lands will continue as they have become , an abundant source of revenue and when the pledge of them to the public creditor shall have been redeemed by the entire discharge of the national debt , the swelling tide of wealth with which they replenish the common Treasury may be made to reflow in unfailing streams of improvement from the Atlantic to the Pacific Ocean . The condition of the various branches of the public service resorting from the Department of War , and their administration during the current year , will be exhibited in the report of the Secretary of War and the accompanying documents herewith communicated . The organization and discipline of the Army are effective and satisfactory . To counteract the prevalence of desertion among the troops it has been suggested to withhold from the men a small portion of their monthly pay until the period of their discharge and some expedient appears to be necessary to preserve and maintain among the officers so much of the art of horsemanship as could scarcely fail to be found wanting on the possible sudden eruption of a war , which should take us unprovided with a single corps of cavalry . The Military Academy at West Point , under the restrictions of a severe but paternal superintendence , recommends itself more and more to the patronage of the nation , and the numbers of meritorious officers which it forms and introduces to the public service furnishes the means of multiplying the undertakings of the public improvements to which their acquirements at that institution are peculiarly adapted . The school of artillery practice established at Fortress Monroe Hampton , Virginia is well suited to the same purpose , and may need the aid of further legislative provision to the same end . The reports of the various officers at the head of the administrative branches of the military service , connected with the quartering , clothing , subsistence , health , and pay of the Army , exhibit the assiduous vigilance of those officers in the performance of their respective duties , and the faithful accountability which has pervaded every part of the system . Our relations with the numerous tribes of aboriginal natives of this country , scattered over its extensive surface and so dependent even for their existence upon our power , have been during the present year highly interesting . An act of Congress of 1824 05 25 , made an appropriation to defray the expenses of making treaties of trade and friendship with the Indian tribes beyond the Mississippi . An act of 1825 03 03 , authorized treaties to be made with the Indians for their consent to the making of a road from the frontier of Missouri to that of New Mexico , and another act of the same date provided for defraying the expenses of holding treaties with the Sioux , Chippeways , Menomenees , Sauks , Foxes , etc . , for the purpose of establishing boundaries and promoting peace between said tribes . The first and last objects of these acts have been accomplished , and the second is yet in a process of execution . The treaties which since the last session of Congress have been concluded with the several tribes will be laid before the Senate for their consideration conformably to the Constitution . They comprise large and valuable acquisitions of territory , and they secure an adjustment of boundaries and give pledges of permanent peace between several tribes which had been long waging bloody wars against each other . On the 12th of February last a treaty was signed at the Indian Springs between commissioners appointed on the part of the United States and certain chiefs and individuals of the Creek Nation of Indians , which was received at the seat of government only a very few days before the close of the last session of Congress and of the late administration . The advice and consent of the Senate was given to it on the 3rd of March , too late for it to receive the ratification of the then President of the United States it was ratified on the 7th of March , under the unsuspecting impression that it had been negotiated in good faith and in the confidence inspired by the recommendation of the Senate . The subsequent transactions in relation to this treaty will form the subject of a separate communication . The appropriations made by Congress for public works , as well in the construction of fortifications as for purposes of internal improvement , so far as they have been expended , have been faithfuly applied . Their progress has been delayed by the want of suitable officers for superintending them . An increase of both the corps of engineers , military and topographical , was recommended by my predecessor at the last session of Congress . The reasons upon which that recommendation was founded subsist in all their force and have acquired additional urgency since that time . The Military Academy at West Point will furnish from the cadets there officers well qualified for carrying this measure into effect . The Board of Engineers for Internal Improvement , appointed for carrying into execution the act of Congress of 1824 04 30 , to procure the necessary surveys , plans , and estimates on the subject of roads and canals , have been actively engaged in that service from the close of the last session of Congress . They have completed the surveys necessary for ascertaining the practicability of a canal from the Chesapeake Bay to the Ohio River , and are preparing a full report on that subject , which , when completed , will be laid before you . The same observation is to be made with regard to the two other objects of national importance upon which the Board have been occupied , namely , the accomplishment of a national road from this city to New Orleans , and the practicability of uniting the waters of Lake Memphramagog with Connecticut River and the improvement of the navigation of that river . The surveys have been made and are nearly completed . The report may be expected at an early period during the present session of Congress . The acts of Congress of the last session relative to the surveying , marking , or laying out roads in the Territories of Florida , Arkansas , and Michigan , from Missouri to Mexico , and for the continuation of the Cumberland road , are , some of them , fully executed , and others in the process of execution . Those for completing or commencing fortifications have been delayed only so far as the Corps of Engineers has been inadequate to furnish officers for the necessary superintendence of the works . Under the act confirming the statutes of Virginia and Maryland incorporating the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company , three commissioners on the part of the United States have been appointed for opening books and receiving subscriptions , in concert with a like number of commissioners appointed on the part of each of those states . A meeting of the commissioners has been post poned , to await the definitive report of the board of engineers . The light houses and monuments for the safety of our commerce and mariners , the works for the security of Plymouth Beach and for the preservation of the islands in Boston Harbor , have received the attention required by the laws relating to those objects respectively . The continuation of the Cumberland road , the most important of them all , after surmounting no inconsiderable difficulty in fixing upon the direction of the road , has commenced under the most promising of auspices , with the improvements of recent invention in the mode of construction , and with advantage of a great reduction in the comparative cost of the work . The operation of the laws relating to the Revolutionary pensioners may deserve the renewed consideration of Congress . The act of 1818 03 18 , while it made provision for many meritorious and indigent citizens who had served in the War of Independence , opened a door to numerous abuses and impositions . To remedy this the act of 1820 05 01 , exacted proofs of absolute indigence , which many really in want were unable and all susceptible of that delicacy which is allied to many virtues must be deeply reluctant to give . The result has been that some among the least deserving have been retained , and some in whom the requisites both of worth and want were combined have been stricken from the list . As the numbers of these venerable relics of an age gone by diminish as the decays of body , mind , and estate of those that survive must in the common course of nature increase , should not a more liberal portion of indulgence be dealt out to them May not the want in most instances be inferred from the demand when the service can be proved , and may not the last days of human infirmity be spared the mortification of purchasing a pittance of relief only by the exposure of its own necessities I submit to Congress the expediency of providing for individual cases of this description by special enactment , or of revising the act of 1820 05 01 , with a view to mitigate the rigor of its exclusions in favor of persons to whom charity now bestowed can scarcely discharge the debt of justice . The portion of the naval force of the Union in actual service has been chiefly employed on three stations the Mediterranean , the coasts of South America bordering on the Pacific Ocean , and the West Indies . An occasional cruiser has been sent to range along the African shores most polluted by the traffic of slaves one armed vessel has been stationed on the coast of our eastern boundary , to cruise along the fishing grounds in Hudsons Bay and on the coast of Labrador , and the first service of a new frigate has been performed in restoring to his native soil and domestic enjoyments the veteran hero whose youthful blood and treasure had freely flowed in the cause of our country s independence , and whose whole life has been a series of services and sacrifices to the improvement of his fellow men . The visit of General Lafayette , alike honorable to himself and to our country , closed , as it had commenced , with the most affecting testimonials of devoted attachment on his part , and of unbounded gratitude of this people to him in return . It will form here after a pleasing incident in the annals of our Union , giving to real history the intense interest of romance and signally marking the unpurchasable tribute of a great nation s social affections to the disinterested champion of the liberties of humankind . The constant maintenance of a small squadron in the Mediterranean is a necessary substitute for the humiliating alternative of paying tribute for the security of our commerce in that sea , and for a precarious peace , at the mercy of every caprice of four Barbary states , by whom it was liable to be violated . An additional motive for keeping a respectable force stationed there at this time is found in the maritime war raging between the Greeks and the Turks , and in which the neutral navigation of this Union is always in danger of outrage and depredation . A few instances have occurred of such depredations upon our merchant vessels by privateers or pirates wearing the Grecian flag , but without real authority from the Greek or any other government . The heroic struggles of the Greeks themselves , in which our warmest sympathies as free men and Christians have been engaged , have continued to be maintained with vicissitudes of success adverse and favorable . Similar motives have rendered expedient the keeping of a like force on the coasts of Peru and Chile on the Pacific . The irregular and convulsive character of the war upon the shores has been extended to the conflicts upon the ocean . An active warfare has been kept up for years with alternate success , though generally to the advantage of the American patriots . But their naval forces have not always been under the control of their own governments . Blockades , unjustifiable upon any acknowledged principles of international law , have been proclaimed by officers in command , and though disavowed by the supreme authorities , the protection of our own commerce against them has been made cause of complaint and erroneous imputations against some of the most gallant officers of our Navy . Complaints equally groundless have been made by the commanders of the Spanish royal forces in those seas but the most effective protection to our commerce has been the flag and the firmness of our own commanding officers . The cessation of the war by the complete triumph of the patriot cause has removed , it is hoped , all cause of dissension with one party and all vestige of force of the other . But an unsettled coast of many degrees of latitude forming a part of our own territory and a flourishing commerce and fishery extending to the islands of the Pacific and to China still require that the protecting power of the Union should be displayed under its flag as well upon the ocean as upon the land . The objects of the West India Squadron have been to carry into execution the laws for the suppression of the African slave trade for the protection of our commerce against vessels of piratical character , though bearing commissions from either of the belligerent parties for its protection against open and unequivocal pirates . These objects during the present year have been accomplished more effectually than at any former period . The African slave trade has long been excluded from the use of our flag , and if some few citizens of our country have continued to set the laws of the Union as well as those of nature and humanity at defiance by persevering in that abominable traffic , it has been only by sheltering themselves under the banners of other nations less earnest for the total extinction of the trade of ours . The active , persevering , and unremitted energy of Captain Warrington and of the officers and men under his command on that trying and perilous service have been crowned with signal success , and are entitled to the approbation of their country . But experience has shown that not even a temporary suspension or relaxation from assiduity can be indulged on that station without reproducing piracy and murder in all their horrors nor is it probably that for years to come our immensely valuable commerce in those seas can navigate in security without the steady continuance of an armed force devoted to its protection . It were , indeed , a vain and dangerous illusion to believe that in the present or probable condition of human society a commerce so extensive and so rich as ours could exist and be pursued in safety without the continual support of a military marine the only arm by which the power of this Confederacy can be estimated or felt by foreign nations , and the only standing military force which can never be dangerous to our own liberties at home . A permanent naval peace establishment , therefore , adapted to our present condition , and adaptable to that gigantic growth with which the nation is advancing in its career , is among the subjects which have already occupied the foresight of the last Congress , and which will deserve your serious deliberations . Our Navy , commenced at an early period of our present political organization upon a scale commensurate with the incipient energies , the scanty resources , and the comparative indigence of our infancy , was even then found adequate to cope with all the powers of Barbary , save the first , and with one of the principle maritime powers of Europe . At a period of further advancement , but with little accession of strength , it not only sustained with honor the most unequal of conflicts , but covered itself and our country with unfading glory . But it is only since the close of the late war that by the numbers and force of the ships of which it was composed it could deserve the name of a navy . Yet it retains nearly the same organization as when it consisted only of five frigates . The rules and regulations by which it is governed earnestly call for revision , and the want of a naval school of instruction , corresponding with the Military Academy at West Point , for the formation of scientific and accomplished officers , is felt with daily increasing aggravation . The act of Congress of 1824 05 26 , authorizing an examination and survey of the harbor of Charleston , in South Carolina , of Marys , in Georgia , and of the coast of Florida , and for other purposes , has been executed so far as the appropriation would admit . Those of the 3rd of March last , authorizing the establishment of a navy yard and depot on the coast of Florida , in the Gulf of Mexico , and authorizing the building of 10 sloops of war , and for other purposes , are in the course of execution , for the particulars of which and other objects connected with this Department I refer to the report of the Secretary of the Navy , herewith communicated . A report from the Postmaster General is also submitted , exhibiting the present flourishing condition of that Department . For the first time for many years the receipts for the year ending on the first of July last exceeded the expenditures during the same period to the amount of more than 45 , 000 . Other facts equally creditable to the administration of this Department are that in two years from 1823 07 01 , an improvement of more than 185 , 000 in its pecuniary affairs has been realized that in the same interval the increase of the transportation of the mail has exceeded 1 , 500 , 000 miles annually , and that 1 , 040 new post offices have been established . It hence appears that under judicious management the income from this establishment may be relied on as fully adequate to defray its expenses , and that by the discontinuance of post roads altogether unproductive , others of more useful character may be opened , til the circulation of the mail shall keep pace with the spread of our population , and the comforts of friendly correspondence , the exchanges of internal traffic , and the lights of the periodical press shall be distributed to the remotest corners of the Union , at a charge scarcely perceptible to any individual , and without the cost of a dollar to the public Treasury . Upon this first occasion of addressing the legislature of the Union , with which I have been honored , in presenting to their view the execution so far as it has been effected of the measures sanctioned by them for promoting the internal improvement of our country , I can not close the communication without recommending to their calm and persevering consideration the general principle in a more enlarged extent . The great object of the institution of civil government is the improvement of the condition of those who are parties to the social compact , and no government , in what ever form constituted , can accomplish the lawful ends of its institution but in proportion as it improves the condition of those over whom it is established . Roads and canals , by multiplying and facilitating the communications and intercourse between distant regions and multitudes of men , are among the most important means of improvement . But moral , political , intellectual improvement are duties assigned by the Author of Our Existence to social no less than to individual man . For the fulfillment of those duties governments are invested with power , and to the attainment of the end the progressive improvement of the condition of the governed the exercise of delegated powers is a duty as sacred and indispensable as the usurpation of powers not granted is criminal and odious . Among the first , perhaps the very first , instrument for the improvement of the condition of men is knowledge , and to the acquisition of much of the knowledge adapted to the wants , the comforts , and enjoyments of human life public institutions and seminaries of learning are essential . So convinced of this was the first of my predecessors in this office , now first in the memory , as , living , he was first in the hearts , of our countrymen , that once and again in his addresses to the Congresses with whom he cooperated in the public service he earnestly recommended the establishment of seminaries of learning , to prepare for all the emergencies of peace and war a national university and a military academy . With respect to the latter , had he lived to the present day , in turning his eyes to the institution at West Point he would have enjoyed the gratification of his most earnest wishes but in surveying the city which has been honored with his name he would have seen the spot of earth which he had destined and bequeathed to the use and benefit of his country as the site for a university still bare and barren . In assuming her station among the civilized nations of the earth it would seem that our country had contracted the engagement to contribute her share of mind , of labor , and of expense to the improvement of those parts of knowledge which lie beyond the reach of individual acquisition , and particularly to geographical and astronomical science . Looking back to the history only of the half century since the declaration of our independence , and observing the generous emulation with which the governments of France , Great Britain , and Russia have devoted the genius , the intelligence , the treasures of their respective nations to the common improvement of the species in these branches of science , is it not incumbent upon us to inquire whether we are not bound by obligations of a high and honorable character to contribute our portion of energy and exertion to the common stock The voyages of discovery prosecuted in the course of that time at the expense of those nations have not only redounded to their glory , but to the improvement of human knowledge . We have been partakers of that improvement and owe for it a sacred debt , not only of gratitude , but of equal or proportional exertion in the same common cause . Of the cost of these undertakings , if the mere expenditures of outfit , equipment , and completion of the expeditions were to be considered the only charges , it would be unworthy of a great and generous nation to take a second thought . One hundred expeditions of circumnavigation like those of Cook and La Prouse would not burden the exchequer of the nation fitting them out so much as the ways and means of defraying a single campaign in war . but if we take into account the lives of those benefactors of man kind of which their services in the cause of their species were the purchase , how shall the cost of those heroic enterprises be estimated , and what compensation can be made to them or to their countries for them Is it not by bearing them in affectionate remembrance Is it not still more by imitating their example by enabling country men of our own to pursue the same career and to hazard their lives in the same cause In inviting the attention of Congress to the subject of internal improvements upon a view thus enlarged it is not my desire to recommend the equipment of an expedition for circumnavigating the globe for purposes of scientific research and inquiry . We have objects of useful investigation nearer home , and to which our cares may be more beneficially applied . The interior of our own territories has yet been very imperfectly explored . our coasts along many degrees of latitude upon the shores of the Pacific Ocean , though much frequented by our spirited commercial navigators , have been barely visited by our public ships . The River of the West , first fully discovered and navigated by a countryman of our own , still bears the name of the ship in which he ascended its waters , and claims the protection of our armed national flag at its mouth . With the establishment of a military post there or at some other point of that coast , recommended by my predecessor and already matured in the deliberations of the last Congress , I would suggest the expediency of connecting the equipment of a public ship for the exploration of the whole north west coast of this continent . The establishment of an uniform standard of weights and measures was one of the specific objects contemplated in the formation of our Constitution , and to fix that standard was on of the powers delegated by express terms in that instrument to Congress . The governments of Great Britain and France have scarcely ceased to be occupied with inquiries and speculations on the same subject since the existence of our Constitution , and with them it has expanded into profound , laborious , and expensive researches into the figure of the earth and the comparative length of the pendulum vibrating seconds in various latitudes from the equator to the pole . These researches have resulted in the composition and publication of several works highly interesting to the cause of science . The experiments are yet in the process of performance . Some of them have recently been made on our own shores , within the walls of one of our own colleges , and partly by one of our own fellow citizens . It would be honorable to our country if the sequel of the same experiments should be countenanced by the patronage of our government , as they have hitherto been by those of France and Britain . Connected with the establishment of an university , or separate from it , might be undertaken the erection of an astronomical observatory , with provision for the support of an astronomer , to be in constant attendance of observation upon the phenomena of the heavens , and for the periodical publication of his observances . it is with no feeling of pride as an American that the remark may be made that on the comparatively small territorial surface of Europe there are existing upward of 130 of these lighthouses of the skies , while throughout the whole American hemisphere there is not one . If we reflect a moment upon the discoveries which in the last four centuries have been made in the physical constitution of the universe by the means of these buildings and of observers stationed in them , shall we doubt of their usefulness to every nation And while scarcely a year passes over our heads without bringing some new astronomical discovery to light , which we must fain receive at second hand from Europe , are we not cutting ourselves off from the means of returning light for light while we have neither observatory nor observer upon our half of the globe and the earth revolves in perpetual darkness to our unsearching eyes When , on 1791 10 25 , the first President of the United States announced to Congress the result of the first enumeration of the inhabitants of this Union , he informed them that the returns gave the pleasing assurance that the population of the United States bordered on 4 , 000 , 000 persons . At the distance of 30 years from that time the last enumeration , five years since completed , presented a population bordering on 10 , 000 , 000 . Perhaps of all the evidence of a prosperous and happy condition of human society the rapidity of the increase of population is the most unequivocal . But the demonstration of our prosperity rests not alone upon this indication . Our commerce , our wealth , and the extent of our territories have increased in corresponding proportions , and the number of independent communities associated in our federal Union has since that time nearly doubled . The legislative representation of the states and people in the two Houses of Congress has grown with the growth of their constituent bodies . The House , which then consisted of 65 members , now numbers upward of 200 . The Senate , which consisted of 26 members , has now 48 . But the executive and , still more , the judiciary departments are yet in a great measure confined to their primitive organization , and are now not adequate to the urgent wants of a still growing community . The naval armaments , which at an early period forced themselves upon the necessities of the Union , soon led to the establishment of a Department of the Navy . But the Departments of Foreign Affairs and of the Interior , which early after the formation of the government had been united in one , continue so united to this time , to the unquestionable detriment of the public service . The multiplication of our relations with the nations and governments of the Old World has kept pace with that of our population and commerce , while within the last 10 years a new family of nations in our own hemisphere has arisen among the inhabitants of the earth , with whom our intercourse , commercial and political , would of itself furnish occupation to an active and industrious department . The constitution of the judiciary , experimental and imperfect as it was even in the infancy of our existing government , is yet more inadequate to the administration of national justice at our present maturity . Nine years have elapsed since a predecessor in this office , now not the last , the citizen who , perhaps , of all others throughout the Union contributed most to the formation and establishment of our Constitution , in his valedictory address to Congress , immediately preceding his retirement from public life , urgently recommended the revision of the judiciary and the establishment of an additional executive department . The exigencies of the public service and its unavoidable deficiencies , as now in exercise , have added yearly cumulative weight to the considerations presented by him as persuasive to the measure , and in recommending it to your deliberations I am happy to have the influence of this high authority in aid of the undoubting convictions of my own experience . The laws relating to the administration of the Patent Office are deserving of much consideration and perhaps susceptible of some improvement . The grant of power to regulate the action of Congress upon this subject has specified both the end to be obtained and the means by which it is to be effected , to promote the progress of science and useful arts by securing for limited times to authors and inventors the exclusive right to their respective writings and discoveries . If an honest pride might be indulged in the reflection that on the records of that office are already found inventions the usefulness of which has scarcely been transcended in the annals of human ingenuity , would not its exultation be allayed by the inquiry whether the laws have effectively insured to the inventors the reward destined to them by the Constitution even a limited term of exclusive right to their discoveries On 1799 12 24 , it was resolved by Congress that a marble monument should be erected by the United States in the Capitol at the city of Washington that the family of General Washington should be requested to permit his body to be deposited under it , and that the monument be so designed as to commemorate the great events of his military and political life . In reminding Congress of this resolution and that the monument contemplated by it remains yet without execution , I shall indulge only the remarks that the works at the Capitol are approaching to completion that the consent of the family , desired by the resolution , was requested and obtained that a monument has been recently erected in this city over the remains of another distinguished patriot of the Revolution , and that a spot has been reserved within the walls where you are deliberating for the benefit of this and future ages , in which the mortal remains may be deposited of him whose spirit hovers over you and listens with delight to every act of the representatives of his nation which can tend to exalt and adorn his and their country . The Constitution under which you are assembled is a charter of limited powers . After full and solemn deliberation upon all or any of the objects which , urged by an irresistible sense of my own duty , I have recommended to your attention should you come to the conclusion that , however desirable in themselves , the enactment of laws for effecting them would transcend the powers committed to you by that venerable instrument which we are all bound to support , let no consideration induce you to assume the exercise of powers not granted to you by the people . But if the power to exercise exclusive legislation in all cases what so ever over the District of Columbia if the power to lay and collect taxes , duties , imposts , and excises , to pay the debts and provide for the common defense and general welfare of the United States if the power to regulate commerce with foreign nations and among the several States and with the Indian tribes , to fix the standard of weights and measures , to establish post offices and post roads , to declare war , to raise and support armies , to provide and maintain a navy , to dispose of and make all needful rules and regulations respecting the territory or other property belonging to the United States , and to make all laws which shall be necessary and proper for carrying these powers into execution if these powers and others enumerated in the Constitution may be effectually brought into action by laws promoting the improvement of agriculture , commerce , and manufactures , the cultivation and encouragement of the mechanic and of the elegant arts , the advancement of literature , and the progress of the sciences , ornamental and profound , to refrain from exercising them for the benefit of the people themselves would be to hide in the earth the talent committed to our charge would be treachery to the most sacred of trusts . The spirit of improvement is abroad upon the earth . It stimulates the hearts and sharpens the faculties not of our fellow citizens alone , but of the nations of Europe and of their rulers . While dwelling with pleasing satisfaction upon the superior excellence of our political institutions , let us not be unmindful that liberty is power that the nation blessed with the largest portion of liberty must in proportion to its numbers be the most powerful nation upon earth , and that the tenure of power by man is , in the moral purposes of his Creator , upon condition that it shall be exercised to ends of beneficence , to improve the condition of himself and his fellow men . While foreign nations less blessed with that freedom which is power than ourselves are advancing with gigantic strides in the career of public improvement , were we to slumber in indolence or fold up our arms and proclaim to the world that we are palsied by the will of our constituents , would it not be to cast away the bounties of Providence and doom ourselves to perpetual inferiority In the course of the year now drawing to its close we have beheld , under the auspices and at the expense of one state of this Union , a new university unfolding its portals to the sons of science and holding up the torch of human improvement to eyes that seek the light . We have seen under the persevering and enlightened enterprise of another state the waters of our Western lakes mingle with those of the ocean . If undertakings like these have been accomplished in the compass of a few years by the authority of single members of our Confederation , can we , the representative authorities of the whole Union , fall behind our fellow servants in the exercise of the trust committed to us for the benefit of our common sovereign by the accomplishment of works important to the whole and to which neither the authority nor the resources of any one state can be adequate Finally , fellow citizens , I shall await with cheering hope and faithful cooperation the result of your deliberations , assured that , without encroaching upon the powers reserved to the authorities of the respective states or to the people , you will , with a due sense of your obligations to your country and of the high responsibilities weighing upon yourselves , give efficacy to the means committed to you for the common good . And may He who searches the hearts of the children of men prosper your exertions to secure the blessings of peace and promote the highest welfare of your country .<speech_sep>