My fellow Americans I am coming before you tonight about the Korean airline massacre , the attack by the Soviet Union against 269 innocent men , women , and children aboard an unarmed Korean passenger plane . This crime against humanity must never be forgotten , here or throughout the world . Our prayers tonight are with the victims and their families in their time of terrible grief . Our hearts go out to them to brave people like Kathryn McDonald , the wife of a Congressman whose composure and eloquence on the day of her husband s death moved us all . He will be sorely missed by all of us here in government . The parents of one slain couple wired me Our daughter . . . and her husband . . . died on Korean Airline Flight 007 . Their deaths were the result of the Soviet Union violating every concept of human rights . The emotions of these parents grief , shock , anger are shared by civilized people everywhere . From around the world press accounts reflect an explosion of condemnation by people everywhere . Let me state as plainly as I can There was absolutely no justification , either legal or moral , for what the Soviets did . One newspaper in India said , If every passenger plane . . . is fair game for home air forces . . . it will be the end to civil aviation as we know it . This is not the first time the Soviet Union has shot at and hit a civilian airliner when it overflew its territory . In another tragic incident in 1978 , the Soviets also shot down an unarmed civilian airliner after having positively identified it as such . In that instance , the Soviet interceptor pilot clearly identified the civilian markings on the side of the aircraft , repeatedly questioned the order to fire on a civilian airliner , and was ordered to shoot it down anyway . The aircraft was hit with a missile and made a crash landing . Several innocent people lost their lives in this attack , killed by shrapnel from the blast of a Soviet missile . Is this a practice of other countries in the world The answer is no . Commercial aircraft from the Soviet Union and Cuba on a number of occasions have overflown sensitive United States military facilities . They were not shot down . We and other civilized countries believe in the tradition of offering help to mariners and pilots who are lost or in distress on the sea or in the air . We believe in following procedures to prevent a tragedy , not to provoke one . But despite the savagery of their crime , the universal reaction against it , and the evidence of their complicity , the Soviets still refuse to tell the truth . They have persistently refused to admit that their pilot fired on the Korean aircraft . Indeed , they have not even told their own people that a plane was shot down . They have spun a confused tale of tracking the plane by radar until it just mysteriously disappeared from their radar screens , but no one fired a shot of any kind . But then they coupled this with charges that it was a spy plane sent by us and that their planes fired tracer bullets past the plane as a warning that it was in Soviet airspace . Let me recap for a moment and present the incontrovertible evidence that we have . The Korean airliner , a Boeing 747 , left Anchorage , Alaska , bound for Seoul , Korea , on a course south and west which would take it across Japan . Out over the Pacific , in international waters , it was for a brief time in the vicinity of one of our reconnaissance planes , an RC 135 , on a routine mission . At no time was the RC 135 in Soviet airspace . The Korean airliner flew on , and the two planes were soon widely separated . The 747 is equipped with the most modern computerized navigation facilities , but a computer must respond to input provided by human hands . No one will ever know whether a mistake was made in giving the computer the course or whether there was a malfunction . Whichever , the 747 was flying a course further to the west than it was supposed to fly a course which took it into Soviet airspace . The Soviets tracked this plane for 2 1 2 hours while it flew a straight line course at 30 to 35 , 000 feet . Only civilian airliners fly in such a manner . At one point , the Korean pilot gave Japanese air control his position as east of Hokkaido , Japan , showing that he was unaware they were off course by as much or more than a hundred miles . The Soviets scrambled jet interceptors from a base in Sakhalin Island . Japanese ground sites recorded the interceptor planes radio transmissions their conversations with their own ground control . We only have the voices from the pilots the Soviet ground to air transmissions were not recorded . It is plain , however , from the pilot s words that he is responding to orders and queries from his own ground control . Here is a brief segment of the tape which we are going to play in its entirety for the United Nations Security Council tomorrow . Those were the voices of the Soviet pilots . In this tape , the pilot who fired the missile describes his search for what he calls the target . He reports he has it in sight indeed , he pulls up to within about a mile of the Korean plane , mentions its flashing strobe light and that its navigation lights are on . He then reports he is reducing speed to get behind the airliner , gives his distance from the plane at various points in this maneuver , and finally announces what can only be called the Korean Airline Massacre . He says he has locked on the radar , which aims his missiles , has launched those missiles , the target has been destroyed , and he is breaking off the attack . Let me point out something here having to do with his close up view of the airliner on what we know was a clear night with a half moon . The 747 has a unique and distinctive silhouette , unlike any other plane in the world . There is no way a pilot could mistake this for anything other than a civilian airliner . And if that is not enough , let me point out our RC 135 that I mentioned earlier had been back at its base in Alaska , on the ground for an hour , when the murderous attack took place over the Sea of Japan . And make no mistake about it , this attack was not just against ourselves or the Republic of Korea . This was the Soviet Union against the world and the moral precepts which guide human relations among people everywhere . It was an act of barbarism , born of a society which wantonly disregards individual rights and the value of human life and seeks constantly to expand and dominate other nations . They deny the deed , but in their conflicting and misleading protestations , the Soviets reveal that , yes , shooting down a plane even one with hundreds of innocent men , women , children , and babies is a part of their normal procedure if that plane is in what they claim as their airspace . They owe the world an apology and an offer to join the rest of the world in working out a system to protect against this ever happening again . Among the rest of us there is one protective measure an international radio wavelength on which pilots can communicate with planes of other nations if they are in trouble or lost . Soviet military planes are not so equipped , because that would make it easier for pilots who might want to defect . Our request to send vessels into Soviet waters to search for wreckage and bodies has received no satisfactory answer . Bereaved families of the Japanese victims were harassed by Soviet patrol boats when they tried to get near where the plane is believed to have gone down in order to hold a ceremony for their dead . But we should not be surprised by such inhuman brutality . Memories come back of Czechoslovakia , Hungary , Poland , the gassing of villages in Afghanistan . If the massacre and their subsequent conduct is intended to intimidate , they have failed in their purpose . From every corner of the globe the word is defiance in the face of this unspeakable act and defiance of the system which excuses it and tries to cover it up . With our horror and our sorrow , there is a righteous and terrible anger . It would be easy to think in terms of vengeance , but that is not a proper answer . We want justice and action to see that this never happens again . Our immediate challenge to this atrocity is to ensure that we make the skies safer and that we seek just compensation for the families of those who were killed . Since my return to Washington , we have held long meetings , the most recent yesterday with the congressional leadership . There was a feeling of unity in the room , and I received a number of constructive suggestions . We will continue to work with the Congress regarding our response to this massacre . As you know , we immediately made known to the world the shocking facts as honestly and completely as they came to us . We have notified the Soviets that we will not renew our bilateral agreement for cooperation in the field of transportation so long as they threaten the security of civil aviation . Since 1981 the Soviet airline Aeroflot has been denied the right to fly to the United States . We have reaffirmed that order and are examining additional steps we can take with regard to Aeroflot facilities in this country . We are cooperating with other countries to find better means to ensure the safety of civil aviation and to join us in not accepting Aeroflot as a normal member of the international civil air community unless and until the Soviets satisfy the cries of humanity for justice . I am pleased to report that Canada today suspended Aeroflot s landing and refueling privileges for 60 days . We have joined with other countries to press the International Civil Aviation Organization to investigate this crime at an urgent special session of the Council . At the same time , we are listening most carefully to private groups , both American and international , airline pilots , passenger associations , and others , who have a special interest in civil air safety . I am asking the Congress to pass a joint resolution of condemnation of this Soviet crime . We have informed the Soviets that we are suspending negotiations on several bilateral arrangements we had under consideration . Along with Korea and Japan , we called an emergency meeting of the Security Council which began on Friday . On that first day , Korea , Japan , Canada , Australia , the Netherlands , Pakistan , France , China , the United Kingdom , Zaire , New Zealand , and West Germany all joined us in denouncing the Soviet action and expressing our horror . We expect to hear from additional countries as debate resumes tomorrow . We intend to work with the 13 countries who had citizens aboard the Korean airliner to seek reparations for the families of all those who were killed . The United States will be making a claim against the Soviet Union within the next week to obtain compensation for the benefit of the victims survivors . Such compensation is an absolute moral duty which the Soviets must assume . In the economic area in general , we are redoubling our efforts with our allies to end the flow of military and strategic items to the Soviet Union . Secretary Shultz is going to Madrid to meet with representatives of 35 countries who , for 3 years , have been negotiating an agreement having to do with , among other things , human rights . Foreign Minister Gromyko of the Soviet Union is scheduled to attend that meeting . If he does come to the meeting , Secretary Shultz is going to present him with our demands for disclosure of the facts , corrective action , and concrete assurances that such a thing will not happen again and that restitution be made . As we work with other countries to see that justice is done , the real test of our resolve is whether we have the will to remain strong , steady , and united . I believe more than ever as evidenced by your thousands and thousands of wires and phone calls in these last few days that we do . I have outlined some of the steps we are taking in response to the tragic massacre . There is something I have always believed in , but which now seems more important than ever . The Congress will be facing key national security issues when it returns from recess . There has been legitimate difference of opinion on this subject , I know , but I urge the Members of that distinguished body to ponder long and hard the Soviets aggression as they consider the security and safety of our people indeed , all people who believe in freedom . Senator Henry Jackson , a wise and revered statesman and one who probably understood the Soviets as well as any American in history , warned us , the greatest threat the United States now faces is posed by the Soviet Union . But Senator Jackson said , If America maintains a strong deterrent and only if it does this nation will continue to be a leader in the crucial quest for enduring peace among nations . The late Senator made those statements in July on the Senate floor , speaking in behalf of the MX missile program he considered vital to restore America s strategic parity with the Soviets . When John Kennedy was President , defense spending as a share of the Federal budget was 70 percent greater than it is today . Since then , the Soviet Union has carried on the most massive military buildup the world has ever seen . Until they are willing to join the rest of the world community , we must maintain the strength to deter their aggression . But while we do so , we must not give up our effort to bring them into the world community of nations . Peace through strength as long as necessary , but never giving up our effort to bring peace closer through mutual , verifiable reduction in the weapons of war . I have told you of negotiations we have suspended as a result of the Korean airline massacre , but we cannot , we must not give up our effort to reduce the arsenals of destructive weapons threatening the world . Ambassador Nitze has returned to Geneva to resume the negotiations on intermediate range nuclear weapons in Europe . Equally , we will continue to press for arms reductions in the START talks that resume in October . We are more determined than ever to reduce and , if possible , eliminate the threat hanging over mankind . We know it will be hard to make a nation that rules its own people through force to cease using force against the rest of the world . But we must try . This is not a role we sought . We preach no manifest destiny . But like Americans who began this country and brought forth this last , best hope of mankind , history has asked much of the Americans of our own time . Much we have already given much more we must be prepared to give . Let us have faith , in Abraham Lincoln s words , that right makes might , and in that faith let us , to the end dare to do our duty as we understand it . If we do , if we stand together and move forward with courage , then history will record that some good did come from this monstrous wrong that we will carry with us and remember for the rest of our lives . Thank you . God bless you , and good night .<speech_sep>Well , thank you very much for that warm welcome . Governor Baliles , Congressman Slaughter , and my very special thanks , too , to Senator Warner and President O Neil for suggesting this invitation . And you know , as President , I have certain privileges . So , I checked with President O Neil , and I am delighted to announce that starting Monday night you all have 4 weeks off . But here at UVwe are surrounded with memories of Thomas Jefferson . One of my staff mentioned that Thomas Jefferson s favorite recreation was horseback riding , and I said he was a wise man . And another member of the staff said that Thomas Jefferson thought the White House was a noble edifice , and I said he was a man of refined taste . And a third staff member noted that , after retiring as President , Thomas Jefferson , in his seventies , did not sit back and rest , but founded the University of Virginia and I said There is always an overachiever which makes it hard for the rest of us . But no speaker can come to these grounds or see the Lawn without appreciating the symmetry not just of the architecture but of the mind that created it . The man to whom that mind belonged is known to you as Jefferson . And I think the familiarity of that term is justified his influence here is everywhere . And yet , while those of you at UVA are fortunate to have before you physical reminders of the power of your founder s intellect and imagination , it should be remembered that all you do here , indeed , all of higher education in America , bears signs , too , of his transforming genius . The pursuit of science , the study of the great works , the value of free inquiry , in short , the very idea of the living the life of the mind yes , these formative and abiding principles of higher education in America had their first and firmest advocate , and their greatest embodiment , in a tall , fair headed , friendly man who watched this university take form from the mountainside where he lived , the university whose founding he called a crowning achievement to a long and well spent life . Well , you are not alone in feeling his presence . Presidents know about this , too . You have heard many times that during the first year of his Presidency , John Kennedy said to a group of Nobel laureates in the State Dining Room of the White House that there had not been such a collection of talent in that place since Jefferson dined there alone . And directly down the lawn and across the Ellipse from the White House are those ordered , classic lines of the Jefferson Memorial and the eyes of the 19 foot statue that gaze directly into the White House , a reminder to any of us who might occupy that mansion of the quality of mind and generosity of heart that once abided there and has been so rarely seen there again . But it is not just students and Presidents , it is every American indeed , every human life ever touched by the daring idea of self government that Jefferson has influenced . Yes , Jefferson was obliged to admit all previous attempts at popular government had proven themselves failures . But he believed that here on this continent , as one of his commentators put it , here was virgin soil , an abundance of land , no degrading poverty , a brave and intelligent people which had just vindicated its title to independence after a long struggle with the mightiest of European powers . Well , here was another chance , an opportunity for enlightened government , government based on the principles of reason and tolerance , government that left to the people the fruits of their labor and the pursuit of their own definition of happiness in the form of commerce or education or religion . And so , it is no wonder he asked that his epitaph read simply Here was born Thomas Jefferson , Author of the Declaration of Independence , of the Statute of Virginia for religious freedom , and Father of the University of Virginia . Well , as that epitaph shows , for all his learning and bookishness , Jefferson was a practical man , a man who made things , things like a university , a State government , a National Government . In founding and sustaining these institutions , he wanted them to be based on the same symmetry , the same balance of mind and faith in human creativity evidenced in the Lawn . He had known personal tragedy . He knew how disorderly a place the world could be . Indeed , as a leader of a rebellion , he was himself an architect , if you will , of disorder . But he also believed that man had received from God a precious gift of enlightenment the gift of reason , a gift that could extract from the chaos of life meaning , truth , order . Just as we see in his architecture , the balancing of circular with linear , of rotunda with pillar , we see in his works of government the same disposition toward balance , toward symmetry and harmony . He knew successful self government meant bringing together disparate interests and concerns , balancing , for example , on the one hand , the legitimate duties of government the maintenance of domestic order and protection from foreign menace with government s tendency to preempt its citizens rights , take the fruits of their labors , and reduce them ultimately to servitude . So he knew that governing meant balance , harmony . And he knew from personal experience the danger posed to such harmony by the voices of unreason , special privilege , partisanship , or intolerance . And I do mean personal experience . You see , despite all of George Washington s warnings about the divisiveness of the partisan spirit , Federalists and Republicans were constantly at each other in those days . The Federalists of the Northeast had held power for a long time and were not anxious to relinquish it . Years later , a New York Congressman honored the good old days when , as he put it , a Federalist could knock a Republican down in the streets of New York and not be questioned about it . The Federalists referred to Jefferson as and here I quote a mean spirited , low lived fellow , raised wholly on hotcake made of coarse ground Southern corn , bacon , and hominy , with an occasional fricasseed bullfrog . Well , by the way was the 1800 equivalent of what I believe is known here at UVA as a Gus Burger . And an editorial in the Federalist Connecticut Courant also announced that as soon as Jefferson was elected , Murder , robbery , rape , and adultery and incest will be openly taught and practiced . Well , that was politics in 1800 . So , you see , not all that much has changed . Actually , I have taken a moment for these brief reflections on Thomas Jefferson and his time precisely because there are such clear parallels to our own . We too have seen a new populism in America , not at all unlike that of Jefferson s time . We have seen the growth of a Jefferson like populism that rejects the burden placed on the people by excessive regulation and taxation that rejects the notion that judgeships should be used to further privately held beliefs not yet approved by the people and finally , rejects , too , the notion that foreign policy must reflect only the rarefied concerns of Washington rather than the common sense of a people who can frequently see far more plainly dangers to their freedom and to our national well being . It is this latter point that brings me to the University of Virginia today . There has been much change in the last 8 years in our foreign relations and this September , when I spoke to the United Nations , I summarized much of the progress we have seen in such matters as the human rights agenda , arms reduction , and resolving those regional conflicts that might lead to wider war . I will not recite all of this here again today , but I do want you to know I found in the delegates afterward a warmth that I had not seen before let me assure you , not due to any eloquence on my part but just a simple perception on their part that there is a chance for an opening , a new course in human events . I think I detected a sense of excitement , even perhaps like that felt by those who lived in Jefferson s time a sense of new possibilities for the idea of popular government . Only this time , it is not just a single nation at issue It is the whole world where popular government might flourish and prosper . Only a few years ago , this would have seemed the most outlandish and dreamiest of prospects . But consider for just a moment the striving for democracy that we have seen in places like the Philippines , Burma , Korea , Chile , Poland , South Africa even places like China and the Soviet Union . One of the great , unnoticed and yet most startling developments of this decade is this More of the world s populace is today living in relative freedom than ever before in history more and more nations are turning to freely elected democratic governments . The statistics themselves are compelling . According to one organization , Freedom House , in the past 15 years the number of countries called not free declined from 71 to 50 . And the countries classified as free or partly free increased from 92 to 117 . When you consider that , according to the Freedom House count , 70 percent of those not living in freedom are in China and the Soviet Union and even in those nations , as I say , we see glimpses of hope the picture is even brighter . The most dramatic movement of all has taken place More than 90 percent of the people are now living in countries that are democratic or headed in that direction . This democratic revolution has been accompanied by a change in economic thinking comparable to the Newtonian revolution in physics , and that is no accident . Free market economies have worked miracles in several nations of East Asia . A General Assembly special session on Africa has called for more market oriented structural reform in that region . In Europe the tide is against state ownership of property . And even in China and the Soviet Union the theoretical underpinnings of Socialist economics are being reexamined . In this atmosphere , we have continued to emphasize prudent but deepening development of economic ties which are critical to our economic health in the conduct of our foreign policy . In our own hemisphere , we are about to implement an historic free trade agreement between the United States and Canada that could well serve as a model for the world . These democratic and free market revolutions are really the same revolution . They are based on the vital nexus between economic and political freedom and on the Jeffersonian idea that freedom is indivisible , that government s attempts to encroach on that freedom whether it be through political restrictions on the rights of assembly , speech , or publication , or economic repression through high taxation and excessive bureaucracy have been the principal institutional barrier to human progress . But if this remarkable revolution has not been obvious to many , certainly one other eye opening change has been self evident . Consider for just a moment the sights we have seen this year an American President with his Soviet counterpart strolling through Red Square and talking to passers by about war and peace an American President there in the Lenin Hills of Moscow speaking to the students of Moscow State University , young people like yourselves , about the wonder and splendor of human freedom an American President , only last week , with a future American President and the President of the Soviet Union standing in New York Harbor , looking up at Lady Liberty , hearing again the prayer on the lips of all those millions who once passed that way in hope of a better life and future a prayer of peace and freedom for all humanity . And , yes , even this week in the devastation of Armenia , Americans and Russians making common cause , as we once made common cause against another terrible enemy 44 years ago . But it is not the visuals and the sound bites that matter . Behind all of this is a record of diplomatic movement and accomplishment . One of those visuals you have seen in the last year is the signing of accords between Gorbachev and me and the destruction of American and Soviet missiles . It was more than just good television , more than just action news . The INF treaty is the first accord in history to eliminate an entire class of and Soviet nuclear missiles . And the START treaty , which deals with far larger arsenals of long range or what the experts call strategic weapons , calls for 50 percent reductions in such weapons . In Geneva , where the portions of the draft treaty disputed by one side or the other are put in brackets , we are slowly seeing those brackets disappear . So , the treaty is coming closer . And so , too , there is progress on nuclear testing agreements and chemical weapons , and we are about to begin new negotiations on the conventional balance in Europe . Gorbachev s recent announcement at the about troop reductions was most welcome and appreciated , but it is important to remember this is a part of and the result of a larger disarmament process set in motion several years ago . Another area where the achievements are visible is that of regional conflicts . In Afghanistan , we have seen a settlement leading towards Soviet withdrawal . In Cambodia , the first steps have been taken toward withdrawal of Vietnamese troops . In Brazzaville , justthisTuesday , anAmerican mediated accord was signed that will send some 50 , 000 Cuban soldiers home from Angola the second reversal of Cuban military imperialism after our rescue of Grenada in 1983 . In the matter of human rights , we have also seen extraordinary progress the release of some political prisoners in the Soviet Union , initial steps toward a reduction of state economic controls and more politically representative forms of government , some greater scope to publish and speak critically , an increase in emigration , and visible steps toward greater religious freedom . And finally , in our bilateral exchanges , we are seeing more Soviet and American citizens visiting each other s land and a greater interchange of scientific , cultural , and intellectual traditions . The summits themselves are indications of the progress we have made here . I look to the day when the meetings between the leaders of the Soviet Union and the United States will be regular and frequent and maybe not quite so newsworthy . Where we are strong , steadfast we succeed . In the Persian Gulf , the United States made clear its commitment to defend freedom of navigation and free world interests . And this helped hasten an end to the Gulf war . And the country stood firm for years , insisting that the PLO had to accept Israel s right to exist , sign on to Resolutions 242 and 338 , and renounce terrorism . And now that resolve has paid off . Now the democratic revolution that I talked about earlier and all the change and movement and , yes , breakthroughs that I have just cited on the diplomatic front can be directly attributed to the restoration of confidence on the part of democratic nations . There can be little doubt that in the decade of the eighties the cause of freedom and human rights has prospered and the specter of nuclear war has been pushed back because the democracies have recovered their strength their compass . Here at home , a national consensus on the importance of strong American leadership is emerging . As I said before the Congress at the start of this year No legacy would make me more proud than leaving in place such a consensus for the cause of world freedom , a consensus that prevents a paralysis of American power from ever occurring again . Now , I think much of the reason for all of this has to do with the new coherence and clarity that we have brought to our foreign policy , a new coherence based on a strong reaffirmation of values by the allied nations . The same idea that so energized Jefferson and the other founders of this nation the idea of popular government has driven the revival of the West and a renewal of its values and its beliefs in itself . But now the question How do we keep the world moving toward the idea of popular government Well , today I offer three thoughts reflections and warnings at the same time on how the Soviet American relationship can continue to improve and how the cause of peace and freedom can be served . First , the Soviet American relationship Once marked by sterility and confrontation , this relationship is now characterized by dialog realistic , candid dialog serious diplomatic progress , and the sights and sounds of summitry . All of this is heady , inspiring . And yet my first reflection for you today is All of it is still in doubt . And the only way to make it last and grow and become permanent is to remember we are not there yet . Serious problems , fundamental differences remain . Our system is one of checks and balances . Theirs , for all its reforms , remains a one party authoritarian system that institutionalizes the concentration of power . Our foreign relations embrace this expanding world of democracy that I have described . Theirs can be known by the company they keep Cuba , Nicaragua , Ethiopia , Libya , Vietnam , North Korea . Yes , we welcome Gorbachev s recent announcement of a troop reduction , but let us remember that the Soviet preponderance in military power in Europe remains , an asymmetry that offends our Jeffersonian senses and endangers our future . So , we must keep our heads , and that means keeping our skepticism . We must realize that what has brought us here has not been easy , not for ourselves nor for all of those who have sacrificed and contributed to the cause of freedom in the postwar era . So , this means in our treaty negotiations , as I have said Trust , but verify . I am not a linguist , but I learned to say that much Russian and have used it in frequent meetings with Gorbachev Dovorey no provorey . It means keeping our military strong . It means remembering no treaty is better than a bad treaty . It means remembering the accords of Moscow and Washington summits followed many years of standing firm on our principles and our interests , and those of our allies . And finally , we need to recall that in the years of detente we tended to forget the greatest weapon the democracies have in their struggle is public candor the truth . We must never do that again . It is not an act of belligerence to speak to the fundamental differences between totalitarianism and democracy it is a moral imperative . It does not slow down the pace of negotiations it moves them forward . Throughout history , we see evidence that adversaries negotiate seriously with democratic nations only when they knew the democracies harbor no illusions about those adversaries . A second reflection I have on all this concerns some recent speculation that what is happening in the Soviet Union was in its way inevitable , that since the death of Stalin the Soviet state would have to evolve into a more moderate and status quo power in accordance with some vague theory of convergence . I think this is wrong . It is also dangerous , because what we see in the Soviet Union today is a change of a different order than in the past . For example , whatever the Khrushchev era may or may not have represented in Soviet internal politics , we know how aspirations for greater freedom were crushed in Poland and Germany and , even more bloodily , in Hungary . We also saw the construction of the Berlin Wall . We saw Cuba become an active client state , a client state spreading subversion throughout Latin America and bringing the entire world to the brink of war with the missiles of October . And let me assure you , Khrushchev gave no speeches at the like that recently given by Gorbachev . As one British official said about Khrushchev appearances there We were never quite sure whether it was , indeed , Khrushchev s shoe being used to pound the Soviet desk or whether Gromyko s shoe had been borrowed or whether there was an extra shoe kept under the Soviet podium especially for banging purposes . Now , all of this was hardly encouraging for the growth of freedom and the path to peace . We know too what happened in the Brezhnev era greater and greater expansionism Afghanistan economic decay and overwhelming corruption a greater and greater burden on the peoples of the Soviet Union , on all the peoples of the world . Now this is changing . How much and how fast it will change we do not know . I would like to think that actions by this country , particularly our willingness to make ourselves clear our expressions of firmness and will evidenced by our plain talk , strong defenses , vibrant alliances , and readiness to use American power when American power was needed helped to prompt the reappraisal that Soviet leaders have undertaken of their previous policies . Even more , Western resolve demonstrated that the hardline advocated by some within the Soviet Union would be fruitless , just as our economic successes have set a shining example . As I suggested in 1982 , if the West maintained its strength , we would see economic needs clash with the political order in the Soviet Union . This has happened . But it could not have happened if the West had not maintained indeed , strengthened its will , its commitment to world freedom . So , there was nothing inevitable about all of this . Human actions made the difference . Gorbachev has taken some daring steps . As I have said before , this is the first Soviet leader not to make world revolution a priority . Well , let us credit those steps . Let us credit him . And let us remember , too , that the democracies , with their strength and resolve and candor , have also made a difference . And this is the heart of my point What happens in the next few years , whether all this progress is continued or ended this is , in large part , up to us . It is why now , more then ever , we must not falter . American power must be exercised morally , of course , but it must also be exercised , and exercised effectively . For the cause of peace and freedom in the eighties , that power made all the difference . The nineties will prove no different . And this brings us to my third point the relationship between the Executive and the Congress . It is precisely where Congress and the President have worked together as in Afghanistan and Cambodia , or resolved differences , as in Angola , the Persian Gulf , and many aspects of S . Soviet relations precisely there , our policies have succeeded , and we see progress . But where Congress and the President have engaged each other as adversaries , as over Central America , policies have faltered and our common purposes have not been achieved . Congress on again , off again indecisiveness on resisting Sandinista tyranny and aggression has left Central America a region of continuing danger . Sometimes congressional actions in foreign affairs have had the effect of institutionalizing that kind of adversarial relationship . We see it in the War Powers Resolution , in the attempted restrictions on the President s power to implement treaties , and on trade policy . We see it in the attempt to manage complex issues of foreign policy by the blunt instrument of legislation such as unduly restrictive intelligence oversight , limits on arms transfers , and earmarking of 95 percent of our foreign assistance denying a President the ability to respond flexibly to rapidly changing conditions . Even in arms reduction , a President s ability to succeed depends on congressional support for military modernization sometimes attempts are made to weaken my hand . The Founding Fathers understood the need for effectiveness , coherence , consistency , and flexibility in the conduct of foreign affairs . As Jefferson himself said The transaction of business with foreign nations is Executive altogether . It belongs , then , to the head of that department , except as to such portions of it as are specially submitted to the Senate . Exceptions are to be construed strictly . Well , the President and the Vice President are elected by all the people . So , too , is the Congress as a collegial body . All who are elected to serve in these coordinate departments of our National Government have one unmistakable and undeniable mandate to preserve , protect , and defend the Constitution . To this this foremost they must always be attentive . For a President , it means protecting his office and its place in our constitutional framework . In doing that , the President is accountable to the people in the most direct way , accountable to history and to his own conscience . The President and Congress , to be sure , share many responsibilities . But their roles are not the same . Congress alone , for example , has the power of the purse . The President is chief executive , chief diplomat , and commander in chief . How these great branches of government perform their legitimate roles is critically important to the Nation s ability to succeed , nowhere more so than in the field of foreign affairs . They need each other and must work together in common cause with all deference , but within their separate spheres . Today we live in a world in which America no longer enjoys preponderant power , but must lead by example and persuasion a world of pressing new challenges to our economic prosperity a world of new opportunities for peace and of new dangers . In such a world , more than ever , America needs strong and consistent leadership , and the strength and resilience of the Presidency are vital . I think if we can keep these concerns in mind during the coming years public debate and support will be enhanced and America s foreign policy will continue to prosper . All of us know the terrible importance of maintaining the progress we have made in the decade of the eighties . We are moving away from war and confrontation toward peace and freedom , and today toward a future beyond the imaginings of the past . These are the stakes . Some may find such prospects daunting . I think you should find them challenging and exciting . And I think you can see that in all of this you and your country will have a special role to play . The issue before the world is still the same as the one that Jefferson faced so squarely and so memorably Can human beings manage their own affairs Is self determination and popular , representative government possible Jefferson s work and life amounted to a great , mighty assent to that question . So , too , will yours and America s if we can keep in mind the greatest and last lesson of Jefferson s life . And it has something to do with what I just spoke to about the Executive and Congress . I am fond of recollecting that in the last years of their lives John Adams and Thomas Jefferson , who had worked so hard and well together for the Nation s independence , both came to regret that they had let partisan differences come between them . For years their estrangement lasted . But then , when both retired , Jefferson at 68 to Monticello and Adams at 76 to Quincy , they began through their letters to speak again to each other , letters that discussed almost every conceivable subject gardening , horseback riding , even sneezing as a cure for hiccups but other subjects as well the loss of loved ones the mystery of grief and sorrow the importance of religion and , of course , the last thoughts , the final hopes of two old men , two great patriarchs , for the country that they had helped to found and loved so deeply . It carries me back , Jefferson wrote about his correspondence with his cosigner of the Declaration of Independence , to the times when , beset with difficulties and dangers , we were fellow laborers in the same cause , struggling for what is most valuable to man his right to self government . Laboring always at the same oar , with some wave ever ahead threatening to overwhelm us and yet passing harmless we rowed through the storm with heart and hand . It was their last gift to us , this lesson in tolerance for each other , in charity , this insight into America s strength as a nation . And when both died on the same day , within hours of each other , the date was July 4th , 50 years exactly after that first gift to us the Declaration of Independence . A great future is ours and the world s if we but remember the power of those words Jefferson penned not just for Americans but for all humanity that all men are created equal , that they are endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable Rights , that among these are Life , Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness . Thank you , and God bless you . Well , we want to help promote this democracy in the Soviet Union , but I believe that we have got to proceed by watching whether deeds match the words . Now , in some instances , they certainly have permitting me , for example , to speak to the students at the University of Moscow . I found out afterward , however , that they could not get all the student body in , only a few hundred . So , they decided that the few hundred would be those who were members of the Young Communist League . But Ithink that there are differences between us and with this man . When we had the first summit at Geneva , and I will try not to make my answers this long again , people more experienced in this who would be on our team told me that if we could get just the agreement to a second summit that the summit would be worthwhile . Well , I had an idea of my own in the first meeting . And as we sat , they on their side of the table and my team on ours , I looked across the table at the General Secretary you know , I do not know which to call him he is got three titles now General Secretary , President , and Chairman then he was the General Secretary and I suggested that why did not we leave our teams here to start talking the subject that was raised was disarmament and why did not he and I go out and get some air Well , he jumped up before I even finished speaking . And out we went . And it was planned there was a fire in the fireplace . It was very cold that day down in a little house along the lake from below where we were so we walked down . And for an hour and a half , he and I had a meeting and a discussion . And then we decided we had better get back up to the regular meeting . And we were just outside the building , and he said something to me about that I had never seen Russia . And I turned to him and said , And you have never seen the United States . You have never been in the United States before . I said , We are having the summit here . Why do not we have the next summit in the United States , and I hereby invite you And he said , I accept . And he said , Then why do not we have the following one in 1987 in the Soviet Union I said , I accept . Well , when I told our people that we were already scheduled for two more summits in our two countries , they almost fell down . They could not believe it . So , immediately we saw a great difference between this man and the previous leaders of the Soviet Union . You see , I had not had much chance to meet with them . They kept dying on me . Middle East Peace Efforts Well , it is merely a step forward to that because peace , which does not exist there most people forget that those countries are still technically are in a state of war with each other it is only going to come when the principals come together to negotiate . Outside , we have been trying to help , and internationally and so forth , with the other nations . And this has been a great step forward . And again , it was similar to our using strength and sticking to our purpose in other areas that brought it about . We had said from the very first that there were these main points , the 242 and 338 resolutions , the recognition of Israel s right to exist as a nation which had never been advanced before and things of this kind that had to be agreed to before we could have a dialog with the PLwhich was the principal opponent . And when that took place , as it just did for the first time , clearly and without fuzzing it up with ambiguous dialog , when they met those terms , we said yes . And already the process is going forward to arrange for that dialog . But the peace must be brought about by the principals in the dispute , and we are hoping that this now is the main step that will lead us toward that . Terrorism Well , I think that the next administration if I am correct in your question there yes , will continue the policy . We adopted a policy of complete resistance to terrorism no recognition of a country that supported it and there were countries that did . And I think an example , the shortest example that I can give you , was when we had the irrefutable proof that Qadhafi of Libya had been responsible for terrorism that took the lives of a number of people at an airport in Europe , including some Americans we responded . And I am going to knock on wood just one more line on that . Since that response , there has been no Libyan terrorist move against any Advice to Youth I know I speak for many of us when I say your words carry very special significance . What advice do you offer us as we approach a new century in an ever more uncertain future Oh Oh The age group 18 to 24 among voters is the one that is most definitely in support of the type of things that we have been doing in these 8 years . But now , I have to say to you , it is the age group also in which the fewest number , or proportion , vote . So , I would suggest to you because it is your world that we are talking about , and if you have not gotten around to registering or bothering to vote , or you know someone that has not , make sure that age group of yours , who are going to have to take over the reins of government pretty soon that you make your views known in the polling place . I think this is most vital . And then , oh , I could lobby for an awful lot of things like a balanced budget amendment and a line item veto . Your Governor has that . I had it when I was Governor of California the line item veto . Administration Accomplishments Thank you for your advice . I had like to know what you feel are your most significant accomplishments in the areas of , number one , foreign policy , and , number two , domestic policy What do I feel was the most important accomplishment Well , I think in both of those that we have redressed in foreign policy our strength . When I took office , on any given day , half of the military aircraft of the United States could not fly for lack of spare parts . Half of the ships in our Navy could not leave port for much the same reason , or lack of crew . And I immediately met with the Joint Chiefs of Staff and wanted to talk to them about restoring a patriotism where the young men and women in uniform would not feel they had to get into civilian clothes when they left the base , but would be proud to be seen wearing the uniform . Today a higher percentage of our military are high school graduates and it is a volunteer military than ever in our history . And there are three intelligence brackets used in the military for the assignment of people as to what proper functions and so forth the highest percentage in the top intelligence bracket that we have ever known before in our military . And of all the things I am proud of , I am proud of the young men and women who are wearing our uniform more than anything . But this redressing of that but also , I came into office thinking that for some time I was thinking that there was a hunger for a spiritual revival in America , and I think that has taken place . I hear from more and more people talking about the pride they have in country . On the economic front I got a degree in economics . I did not deserve it , but I got it . But I took away I remembered something that happened several hundred years ago and it was a man named ibn Khaldun in Egypt . I did not know they had economists then , but ibn Khaldun said that at the beginning of the empire the tax rates were low and the revenue was great . At the end of the empire , the rates were great and the revenue was low . So , I came away with the belief that you did not gain revenue by raising taxes . And in fact , our whole national experience proves it . When Coolidge took to tax reductions , the revenue of the Government increased . And the same thing happened to a certain extent with President Kennedy s tax reduction , which was similar to ours . So , one of my first goals was to unleash the economy of this country and get government off the backs and out of an adversarial relationship with the private sector so that the people of this country could do with their freedom what they were intended to do . That is all we really have done in this administration We got out of your way . And we have these people that still say that we have a target of 1993 for a balanced budget . And we are meeting that target on every step now . But these people that still are talking that we are going to have to raise taxes they will undo the great economic reform . We have created almost 19 million new jobs in these several years of economic reform . This personal disposable income after taxes has risen higher than it ever was before . And government revenues from the income tax increased by 375 billion since we implemented our tax reform and our tax cut . The trouble is spending increased 450 billion . I have not had a budget yet . By law I have to submit a budget every year . I do , and present company excepted , the Congress just puts it on the shelf and sends me a continuing resolution of their own doing . So , I think the great economic recovery . I have had the pleasure of facing a number of our trading partners , the heads of state of our trading partners Japan , Germany , France , the United Kingdom , and on and on in a meeting and had them I was the new kid in school . They had all been there longer than I had . And they were sitting there silently , and then one of them , a spokesman , said , Tell us about the American miracle . Well , the American miracle was simply the unleashing of resources , and the last point was regulations . George Bush I put in charge of a task force to see how many government regulations he could eliminate . He eliminated so many that our estimate today is that the paperwork imposed upon you and on community governments and on State Governments has been reduced by 600 million man hours a year . Well , I got too long on that answer . President s Future Plans Well , you know , in Hollywood if you do not sing or dance , you wind up as an after dinner speaker . And so , that was my personal appearance role was a speaker out there on the mashed potato circuit . And there are always I think for everyone who ever leaves this post there are things you did not get done . And I think I will be out on the mashed potato circuit again , extolling the virtues of line item veto and a balanced budget amendment and again , defending the right of us to maintain our military defenses and so forth . And I am very tempted about the idea somebody s talking to me about doing a book . And there are some backstage stories that I might enjoy getting out . But I am going to be active . I am not going to be up at the ranch any more than much that I have been able to on the visits that I occasionally make there . But I am going to be active . And I know that Nancy s going to continue her activity in the antidrug campaign , too . Were you the last one , or is there a sixth Did I miscount O Neil . That was the sixth . That was the sixth All right . I miscounted . Thank you very much .<speech_sep>Speaker , President , and distinguished Members of the House and Senate When we first met here seven years ago many of us for the first time it was with the hope of beginning something new for America . We meet here tonight in this historic Chamber to continue that work . If anyone expects just a proud recitation of the accomplishments of my administration , I say let us leave that to history we are not finished yet . So , my message to you tonight is put on your work shoes we are still on the job . History records the power of the ideas that brought us here those 7 years ago ideas like the individual s right to reach as far and as high as his or her talents will permit the free market as an engine of economic progress . And as an ancient Chinese philosopher , Lao tzu , said Govern a great nation as you would cook a small fish do not overdo it . Well , these ideas were part of a larger notion , a vision , if you will , of America herself an America not only rich in opportunity for the individual but an America , too , of strong families and vibrant neighborhoods an America whose divergent but harmonizing communities were a reflection of a deeper community of values the value of work , of family , of religion , and of the love of freedom that God places in each of us and whose defense He has entrusted in a special way to this nation . All of this was made possible by an idea I spoke of when Gorbachev was here the belief that the most exciting revolution ever known to humankind began with three simple words We the People , the revolutionary notion that the people grant government its rights , and not the other way around . And there is one lesson that has come home powerfully to me , which I would offer to you now . Just as those who created this Republic pledged to each other their lives , their fortunes , and their sacred honor , so , too , America s leaders today must pledge to each other that we will keep foremost in our hearts and minds not what is best for ourselves or for our party but what is best for America . In the spirit of Jefferson , let us affirm that in this Chamber tonight there are no Republicans , no Democrats just Americans . Yes , we will have our differences , but let us always remember what unites us far outweighs whatever divides us . Those who sent us here to serve them the millions of Americans watching and listening tonight expect this of us . Let us prove to them and to ourselves that democracy works even in an election year . We have done this before . And as we have worked together to bring down spending , tax rates , and inflation , employment has climbed to record heights America has created more jobs and better , higher paying jobs family income has risen for 4 straight years , and America s poor climbed out of poverty at the fastest rate in more than 10 years . Our record is not just the longest peacetime expansion in history but an economic and social revolution of hope based on work , incentives , growth , and opportunity a revolution of compassion that led to private sector initiatives and a 77 percent increase in charitable giving a revolution that at a critical moment in world history reclaimed and restored the American dream . In international relations , too , there is only one description for what , together , we have achieved a complete turnabout , a revolution . Seven years ago , America was weak , and freedom everywhere was under siege . Today America is strong , and democracy is everywhere on the move . From Central America to East Asia , ideas like free markets and democratic reforms and human rights are taking hold . We have replaced Blame America with Look up to America . We have rebuilt our defenses . And of all our accomplishments , none can give us more satisfaction than knowing that our young people are again proud to wear our country s uniform . And in a few moments , I am going to talk about three developments arms reduction , the Strategic Defense Initiative , and the global democratic revolution that , when taken together , offer a chance none of us would have dared imagine 7 years ago , a chance to rid the world of the two great nightmares of the postwar era . I speak of the startling hope of giving our children a future free of both totalitarianism and nuclear terror . Tonight , then , we are strong , prosperous , at peace , and we are free . This is the state of our Union . And if we will work together this year , I believe we can give a future President and a future Congress the chance to make that prosperity , that peace , that freedom not just the state of our Union but the state of our world . Toward this end , we have four basic objectives tonight . First , steps we can take this year to keep our economy strong and growing , to give our children a future of low inflation and full employment . Second , let us check our progress in attacking social problems , where important gains have been made , but which still need critical attention . I mean schools that work , economic independence for the poor , restoring respect for family life and family values . Our third objective tonight is global continuing the exciting economic and democratic revolutions we have seen around the world . Fourth and finally , our nation has remained at peace for nearly a decade and a half , as we move toward our goals of world prosperity and world freedom . We must protect that peace and deter war by making sure the next President inherits what you and I have a moral obligation to give that President a national security that is unassailable and a national defense that takes full advantage of new technology and is fully funded . This is a full agenda . It is meant to be . You see , my thinking on the next year is quite simple Let us make this the best of 8 . And that means it is all out right to the finish line . I do not buy the idea that this is the last year of anything , because we are not talking here tonight about registering temporary gains but ways of making permanent our successes . And that is why our focus is the values , the principles , and ideas that made America great . Let us be clear on this point . We are for limited government , because we understand , as the Founding Fathers did , that it is the best way of ensuring personal liberty and empowering the individual so that every American of every race and region shares fully in the flowering of American prosperity and freedom . One other thing we Americans like the future like the sound of it , the idea of it , the hope of it . Where others fear trade and economic growth , we see opportunities for creating new wealth and undreamed of opportunities for millions in our own land and beyond . Where others seek to throw up barriers , we seek to bring them down . Where others take counsel of their fears , we follow our hopes . Yes , we Americans like the future and like making the most of it . Let us do that now . And let us begin by discussing how to maintain economic growth by controlling and eventually eliminating the problem of Federal deficits . We have had a balanced budget only eight times in the last 57 years . For the first time in 14 years , the Federal Government spent less in real terms last year than the year before . We took 73 billion off last year s deficit compared to the year before . The deficit itself has moved from 6 . 3 percent of the gross national product to only 3 . 4 percent . And perhaps the most important sign of progress has been the change in our view of deficits . You know , a few of us can remember when , not too many years ago , those who created the deficits said they would make us prosperous and not to worry about the debt , because we owe it to ourselves . Well , at last there is agreement that we cannot spend ourselves rich . Our recent budget agreement , designed to reduce Federal deficits by 76 billion over the next 2 years , builds on this consensus . But this agreement must be adhered to without slipping into the errors of the past more broken promises and more unchecked spending . As I indicated in my first State of the Union , what ails us can be simply put The Federal Government is too big , and it spends too much money . I can assure you , the bipartisan leadership of Congress , of my help in fighting off any attempt to bust our budget agreement . And this includes the swift and certain use of the veto power . Now , it is also time for some plain talk about the most immediate obstacle to controlling Federal deficits . The simple but frustrating problem of making expenses match revenues something American families do and the Federal Government cannot has caused crisis after crisis in this city . Speaker , President , I will say to you tonight what I have said before and will continue to say The budget process has broken down it needs a drastic overhaul . With each ensuing year , the spectacle before the American people is the same as it was this Christmas budget deadlines delayed or missed completely , monstrous continuing resolutions that pack hundreds of billions of dollars worth of spending into one bill , and a Federal Government on the brink of default . I know I am echoing what you here in the Congress have said , because you suffered so directly . But let us recall that in 7 years , of 91 appropriations bills scheduled to arrive on my desk by a certain date , only 10 made it on time . Last year , of the 13 appropriations bills due by October 1st , none of them made it . Instead , we had four continuing resolutions lasting 41 days , then 36 days , and 2 days , and 3 days , respectively . And then , along came these behemoths . This is the conference report 1 , 053 pages , report weighing 14 pounds . Then this a reconciliation bill 6 months late that was 1 , 186 pages long , weighing 15 pounds . And the long term continuing resolution this one was 2 months late , and it is 1 , 057 pages long , weighing 14 pounds . That was a total of 43 pounds of paper and ink . You had 3 hours yes , 3 hours to consider each , and it took 300 people at my Office of Management and Budget just to read the bill so the Government would not shut down . Congress should not send another one of these . No , and if you do , I will not sign it . Let us change all this . Instead of a Presidential budget that gets discarded and a congressional budget resolution that is not enforced , why not a simple partnership , a joint agreement that sets out the spending priorities within the available revenues And let us remember our deadline is October 1st , not Christmas . Let us get the people s work done in time to avoid a footrace with Santa Claus . And , yes , this year to coin a phrase a new beginning 13 individual bills , on time and fully reviewed by Congress . I am also certain you join me in saying Let us help ensure our future of prosperity by giving the President a tool that , though I will not get to use it , is one I know future Presidents of either party must have . Give the President the same authority that 43 Governors use in their States the right to reach into massive appropriation bills , pare away the waste , and enforce budget discipline . Let us approve the line item veto . And let us take a partial step in this direction . Most of you in this Chamber did not know what was in this catchall bill and report . Over the past few weeks , we have all learned what was tucked away behind a little comma here and there . For example , there is millions for items such as cranberry research , blueberry research , the study of crawfish , and the commercialization of wildflowers . And that is not to mention the five or so million that so that people from developing nations could come here to watch Congress at work . I will not even touch that . So , tonight I offer you this challenge . In 30 days I will send back to you those items as rescissions , which if I had the authority to line them out I would do so . Now , review this multibillion dollar package that will not undercut our bipartisan budget agreement . As a matter of fact , if adopted , it will improve our deficit reduction goals . And what an example we can set , that we are serious about getting our financial accounts in order . By acting and approving this plan , you have the opportunity to override a congressional process that is out of control . There is another vital reform . Yes , Gramm Rudman Hollings has been profoundly helpful , but let us take its goal of a balanced budget and make it permanent . Let us do now what so many States do to hold down spending and what 32 State legislatures have asked us to do . Let us heed the wishes of an overwhelming plurality of Americans and pass a constitutional amendment that mandates a balanced budget and forces the Federal Government to live within its means . Reform of the budget process including the line item veto and balanced budget amendment will , together with real restraint on government spending , prevent the Federal budget from ever again ravaging the family budget . Let us ensure that the Federal Government never again legislates against the family and the home . Last September I signed an Executive order on the family requiring that every department and agency review its activities in light of seven standards designed to promote and not harm the family . But let us make certain that the family is always at the center of the public policy process not just in this administration but in all future administrations . It is time for Congress to consider , at the beginning , a statement of the impact that legislation will have on the basic unit of American society , the family . And speaking of the family , let us turn to a matter on the mind of every American parent tonight education . We all know the sorry story of the sixties and seventies soaring spending , plummeting test scores and that hopeful trend of the eighties , when we replaced an obsession with dollars with a commitment to quality , and test scores started back up . There is a lesson here that we all should write on the blackboard a hundred times In a child s education , money can never take the place of basics like discipline , hard work , and , yes , homework . As a nation we do , of course , spend heavily on education more than we spend on defense . Yet across our country , Governors like New Jersey s Tom Kean are giving classroom demonstrations that how we spend is as important as how much we spend . Opening up the teaching profession to all qualified candidates , merit pay so that good teachers get A s as well as apples and stronger curriculum , as Secretary Bennett has proposed for high schools these imaginative reforms are making common sense the most popular new kid in America s schools . How can we help Well , we can talk about and push for these reforms . But the most important thing we can do is to reaffirm that control of our schools belongs to the States , local communities and , most of all , to the parents and teachers . My friends , some years ago , the Federal Government declared war on poverty , and poverty won . Today the Federal Government has 59 major welfare programs and spends more than 100 billion a year on them . What has all this money done Well , too often it has only made poverty harder to escape . Federal welfare programs have created a massive social problem . With the best of intentions , government created a poverty trap that wreaks havoc on the very support system the poor need most to lift themselves out of poverty the family . Dependency has become the one enduring heirloom , passed from one generation to the next , of too many fragmented families . It is time this may be the most radical thing I have said in 7 years in this office it is time for Washington to show a little humility . There are a thousand sparks of genius in 50 States and a thousand communities around the Nation . It is time to nurture them and see which ones can catch fire and become guiding lights . States have begun to show us the way . They have demonstrated that successful welfare programs can be built around more effective child support enforcement practices and innovative programs requiring welfare recipients to work or prepare for work . Let us give the States more flexibility and encourage more reforms . Let us start making our welfare system the first rung on America s ladder of opportunity , a boost up from dependency , not a graveyard but a birthplace of hope . And now let me turn to three other matters vital to family values and the quality of family life . The first is an untold American success story . Recently , we released our annual survey of what graduating high school seniors have to say about drugs . Cocaine use is declining , and marijuana use was the lowest since surveying began . We can be proud that our students are just saying no to drugs . But let us remember what this menace requires commitment from every part of America and every single American , a commitment to a drugfree America . The war against drugs is a war of individual battles , a crusade with many heroes , including America s young people and also someone very special to me . She has helped so many of our young people to say no to drugs . Nancy , much credit belongs to you , and I want to express to you your husband s pride and your country s thanks . . Surprised you , did not Well , now we come to a family issue that we must have the courage to confront . Tonight , I call America a good nation , a moral people to charitable but realistic consideration of the terrible cost of abortion on demand . To those who say this violates a woman s right to control of her own body Can they deny that now medical evidence confirms the unborn child is a living human being entitled to life , liberty , and the pursuit of happiness Let us unite as a nation and protect the unborn with legislation that would stop all Federal funding for abortion and with a human life amendment making , of course , an exception where the unborn child threatens the life of the mother . Our Judeo Christian tradition recognizes the right of taking a life in self defense . But with that one exception , let us look to those others in our land who cry out for children to adopt . I pledge to you tonight I will work to remove barriers to adoption and extend full sharing in family life to millions of Americans so that children who need homes can be welcomed to families who want them and love them . And let me add here So many of our greatest statesmen have reminded us that spiritual values alone are essential to our nation s health and vigor . The Congress opens its proceedings each day , as does the Supreme Court , with an acknowledgment of the Supreme Being . Yet we are denied the right to set aside in our schools a moment each day for those who wish to pray . I believe Congress should pass our school prayer amendment . Now , to make sure there is a full nine member Supreme Court to interpret the law , to protect the rights of all Americans , I urge the Senate to move quickly and decisively in confirming Judge Anthony Kennedy to the highest Court in the land and to also confirm 27 nominees now waiting to fill vacancies in the Federal judiciary . Here then are our domestic priorities . Yet if the Congress and the administration work together , even greater opportunities lie ahead to expand a growing world economy , to continue to reduce the threat of nuclear arms , and to extend the frontiers of freedom and the growth of democratic institutions . Our policies consistently received the strongest support of the late Congressman Dan Daniel of Virginia . I am sure all of you join me in expressing heartfelt condolences on his passing . One of the greatest contributions the United States can make to the world is to promote freedom as the key to economic growth . A creative , competitive America is the answer to a changing world , not trade wars that would close doors , create greater barriers , and destroy millions of jobs . We should always remember Protectionism is destructionism . America s jobs , America s growth , America s future depend on trade trade that is free , open , and fair . This year , we have it within our power to take a major step toward a growing global economy and an expanding cycle of prosperity that reaches to all the free nations of this Earth . I am speaking of the historic free trade agreement negotiated between our country and Canada . And I can also tell you that we are determined to expand this concept , south as well as north . Next month I will be traveling to Mexico , where trade matters will be of foremost concern . And over the next several months , our Congress and the Canadian Parliament can make the start of such a North American accord a reality . Our goal must be a day when the free flow of trade , from the tip of Tierra del Fuego to the Arctic Circle , unites the people of the Western Hemisphere in a bond of mutually beneficial exchange , when all borders become what the S . Canadian border so long has been a meeting place rather than a dividing line . This movement we see in so many places toward economic freedom is indivisible from the worldwide movement toward political freedom and against totalitarian rule . This global democratic revolution has removed the specter , so frightening a decade ago , of democracy doomed to permanent minority status in the world . In South and Central America , only a third of the people enjoyed democratic rule in 1976 . Today over 90 percent of Latin Americans live in nations committed to democratic principles . And the resurgence of democracy is owed to these courageous people on almost every continent who have struggled to take control of their own destiny . In Nicaragua the struggle has extra meaning , because that nation is so near our own borders . The recent revelations of a former high level Sandinista major , Roger Miranda , show us that , even as they talk peace , the Communist Sandinista government of Nicaragua has established plans for a large 600 , 000 man army . Yet even as these plans are made , the Sandinista regime knows the tide is turning , and the cause of Nicaraguan freedom is riding at its crest . Because of the freedom fighters , who are resisting Communist rule , the Sandinistas have been forced to extend some democratic rights , negotiate with church authorities , and release a few political prisoners . The focus is on the Sandinistas , their promises and their actions . There is a consensus among the four Central American democratic Presidents that the Sandinistas have not complied with the plan to bring peace and democracy to all of Central America . The Sandinistas again have promised reforms . Their challenge is to take irreversible steps toward democracy . On Wednesday my request to sustain the freedom fighters will be submitted , which reflects our mutual desire for peace , freedom , and democracy in Nicaragua . I ask Congress to pass this request . Let us be for the people of Nicaragua what Lafayette , Pulaski , and Von Steuben were for our forefathers and the cause of American independence . So , too , in Afghanistan , the freedom fighters are the key to peace . We support the Mujahidin . There can be no settlement unless all Soviet troops are removed and the Afghan people are allowed genuine self determination . I have made my views on this matter known to Gorbachev . But not just Nicaragua or Afghanistan yes , everywhere we see a swelling freedom tide across the world freedom fighters rising up in Cambodia and Angola , fighting and dying for the same democratic liberties we hold sacred . Their cause is our cause freedom . Yet even as we work to expand world freedom , we must build a safer peace and reduce the danger of nuclear war . But let us have no illusions . Three years of steady decline in the value of our annual defense investment have increased the risk of our most basic security interests , jeopardizing earlier hard won goals . We must face squarely the implications of this negative trend and make adequate , stable defense spending a top goal both this year and in the future . This same concern applies to economic and security assistance programs as well . But the resolve of America and its NATO allies has opened the way for unprecedented achievement in arms reduction . Our recently signed INF treaty is historic , because it reduces nuclear arms and establishes the most stringent verification regime in arms control history , including several forms of short notice , on site inspection . I submitted the treaty today , and I urge the Senate to give its advice and consent to ratification of this landmark agreement . Thank you very much . In addition to the INF treaty , we are within reach of an even more significant START agreement that will reduce and Soviet long range missile or strategic arsenals by half . But let me be clear . Our approach is not to seek agreement for agreement s sake but to settle only for agreements that truly enhance our national security and that of our allies . We will never put our security at risk or that of our allies just to reach an agreement with the Soviets . No agreement is better than a bad agreement . As I mentioned earlier , our efforts are to give future generations what we never had a future free of nuclear terror . Reduction of strategic offensive arms is one step , SDI another . Our funding request for our Strategic Defense Initiative is less than 2 percent of the total defense budget . SDI funding is money wisely appropriated and money well spent . SDI has the same purpose and supports the same goals of arms reduction . It reduces the risk of war and the threat of nuclear weapons to all mankind . Strategic defenses that threaten no one could offer the world a safer , more stable basis for deterrence . We must also remember that SDI is our insurance policy against a nuclear accident , a Chernobyl of the sky , or an accidental launch or some madman who might come along . We have seen such changes in the world in 7 years . As totalitarianism struggles to avoid being overwhelmed by the forces of economic advance and the aspiration for human freedom , it is the free nations that are resilient and resurgent . As the global democratic revolution has put totalitarianism on the defensive , we have left behind the days of retreat . America is again a vigorous leader of the free world , a nation that acts decisively and firmly in the furtherance of her principles and vital interests . No legacy would make me more proud than leaving in place a bipartisan consensus for the cause of world freedom , a consensus that prevents a paralysis of American power from ever occurring again . But my thoughts tonight go beyond this , and I hope you will let me end this evening with a personal reflection . You know , the world could never be quite the same again after Jacob Shallus , a trustworthy and dependable clerk of the Pennsylvania General Assembly , took his pen and engrossed those words about representative government in the preamble of our Constitution . And in a quiet but final way , the course of human events was forever altered when , on a ridge overlooking the Emmitsburg Pike in an obscure Pennsylvania town called Gettysburg , Lincoln spoke of our duty to government of and by the people and never letting it perish from the Earth . At the start of this decade , I suggested that we live in equally momentous times , that it is up to us now to decide whether our form of government would endure and whether history still had a place of greatness for a quiet , pleasant , greening land called America . Not everything has been made perfect in 7 years , nor will it be made perfect in seven times 70 years , but before us , this year and beyond , are great prospects for the cause of peace and world freedom . It means , too , that the young Americans I spoke of 7 years ago , as well as those who might be coming along the Virginia or Maryland shores this night and seeing for the first time the lights of this Capital City the lights that cast their glow on our great halls of government and the monuments to the memory of our great men it means those young Americans will find a city of hope in a land that is free . We can be proud that for them and for us , as those lights along the Potomac are still seen this night signaling as they have for nearly two centuries and as we pray God they always will , that another generation of Americans has protected and passed on lovingly this place called America , this shining city on a hill , this government of , by , and for the people . Thank you , and God bless you .<speech_sep>King , members of the King family , distinguished Members of the Congress , ladies and gentlemen , honored guests , I am very pleased to welcome you to the White House , the home that belongs to all of us , the American people . When I was thinking of the contributions to our country of the man that we are honoring today , a passage attributed to the American poet John Greenleaf Whittier comes to mind . Each crisis brings its word and deed . In America , in the fifties and sixties , one of the important crises we faced was racial discrimination . The man whose words and deeds in that crisis stirred our nation to the very depths of its soul was Martin Luther King , Martin Luther King was born in 1929 in an America where , because of the color of their skin , nearly 1 in 10 lived lives that were separate and unequal . Most black Americans were taught in segregated schools . Across the country , too many could find only poor jobs , toiling for low wages . They were refused entry into hotels and restaurants , made to use separate facilities . In a nation that proclaimed liberty and justice for all , too many black Americans were living with neither . In one city , a rule required all blacks to sit in the rear of public buses . But in 1955 , when a brave woman named Rosa Parks was told to move to the back of the bus , she said , No . A young minister in a local Baptist church , Martin Luther King , then organized a boycott of the bus company a boycott that stunned the country . Within 6 months the courts had ruled the segregation of public transportation unconstitutional . King had awakened something strong and true , a sense that true justice must be colorblind , and that among white and black Americans , as he put it , Their destiny is tied up with our destiny , and their freedom is inextricably bound to our freedom we cannot walk alone . In the years after the bus boycott , King made equality of rights his life s work . Across the country , he organized boycotts , rallies , and marches . Often he was beaten , imprisoned , but he never stopped teaching nonviolence . Work with the faith , he told his followers , that unearned suffering is redemptive . In 1964 King became the youngest man in history to win the Nobel Peace Prize . King s work brought him to this city often . And in one sweltering August day in 1963 , he addressed a quarter of a million people at the Lincoln Memorial . If American history grows from two centuries to twenty , his words that day will never be forgotten . I have a dream that one day on the red hills of Georgia , the sons of former slaves and the sons of former slave owners will be able to sit down together at the table of brotherhood . In 1968 Martin Luther King was gunned down by a brutal assassin , his life cut short at the age of 39 . But those 39 short years had changed America forever . The Civil Rights Act of 1964 had guaranteed all Americans equal use of public accommodations , equal access to programs financed by Federal funds , and the right to compete for employment on the sole basis of individual merit . The Voting Rights Act of 1965 had made certain that from then on black Americans would get to vote . But most important , there was not just a change of law there was a change of heart . The conscience of America had been touched . Across the land , people had begun to treat each other not as blacks and whites , but as fellow Americans . And since King s death , his father , the Reverend Martin Luther King , , and his wife , Coretta King , have eloquently and forcefully carried on his work . Also his family have joined in that cause . Now our nation has decided to honor Martin Luther King , , by setting aside a day each year to remember him and the just cause he stood for . We have made historic strides since Rosa Parks refused to go to the back of the bus . As a democratic people , we can take pride in the knowledge that we Americans recognized a grave injustice and took action to correct it . And we should remember that in far too many countries , people like King never have the opportunity to speak out at all . But traces of bigotry still mar America . So , each year on Martin Luther King Day , let us not only recall King , but rededicate ourselves to the Commandments he believed in and sought to live every day Thou shall love thy God with all thy heart , and thou shall love thy neighbor as thyself . And I just have to believe that all of us if all of us , young and old , Republicans and Democrats , do all we can to live up to those Commandments , then we will see the day when King s dream comes true , and in his words , All of God s children will be able to sing with new meaning , . . . land where my fathers died , land of the pilgrim s pride , from every mountainside , let freedom ring . Thank you , God bless you , and I will sign it .<speech_sep>How do you do I have a brief opening statement here before I take your questions . Yesterday Secretary of the Treasury Donald Regan sent to the Congress a request to raise the debt ceiling to 985 billion . This represents a dramatic jump of 50 billion over the previous debt ceiling . The administration took this action with great regret , because it is clear that the massive deficits our government runs is one of the root causes of our profound economic problems , and for too many years this process has come too easily for us . We have lived beyond our means and then financed our extravagance on the backs of the American people . The clear message I received in the election campaign is that we must gain control of this inflationary monster . Let me briefly review for the American people what we have already done . Within moments of taking the oath of office , I placed a freeze on the hiring of civilian employees in the Federal Government . Two days later I issued an order to cut down on government travel , reduce the number of consultants to the government , stopped the procurement of certain items , and called on my appointees to exercise restraint in their own offices . Yesterday I announced the elimination of remaining Federal controls on oil production and marketing . Today I am announcing two more actions to reduce the size of the Federal Government . First , I am taking major steps toward the elimination of the Council on Wage and Price Stability . This Council has been a failure . It has been totally ineffective in controlling inflation , and it is imposed unnecessary burdens on labor and business . Therefore , I am now ending the wage and price program of the Council . I am eliminating the staff that carries out its wage pricing activities , and I am asking Congress to rescind its budget , saving the taxpayers some 1 million a year . My second decision today is a directive ordering key Federal agencies to freeze pending regulations for 60 days . This action gives my administration time to start a new regulatory oversight process and also prevents certain last minute regulatory decisions of the previous administration , the so called midnight regulations , from taking effect without proper review and approval . All of us should remember that the Federal Government is not some mysterious institution comprised of buildings , files , and paper . The people are the government . What we create we ought to be able to control . I do not intend to make wildly skyrocketing deficits and runaway government simple facts of life in this administration . As I have said , our ills have come upon us over several decades , and they will not go away in days or weeks or months . But I want the American people to know that we have begun . Now I will be happy to take your questions . Helen . Well , I am certainly not thinking of revenge , and I do not know whether reconciliation would be possible with the present government , or absence of a government , in Iran . I think that the United States will honor the obligations . As a matter of fact , the most important of those were already put into effect by the preceding administration in negotiating the release . We are , however , studying , because there were four major agreements and there were nine Executive orders , and we are studying thoroughly what is a pretty complex matter , we have discovered , with regard to whether they are in keeping with international and our own national laws . And so , I will not be able to really answer your questions on specifics until we have completed that study . They will be made every place . Maybe across the board was the wrong decision , although it describes it . What I meant was that no one is exempt from being looked at for areas in which we can make cuts in spending . And yes , they probably are going to be bigger than anyone has ever attempted , because this administration did not come here to be a caretaker government and just hope we could go along the same way and maybe do it a little better . We think the time has come where there has to be a change of direction of this country , and it is going to begin with reducing government spending . Well , that is a question that I do not think you can or should answer as to specifics . This is a big and it is a powerful nation . It has a lot of options open to it , and to try and specify now just particularly what you should do I think is one of the things that is been wrong . People have gone to bed in some of these countries that have done these things to us in the past confident that they can go to sleep , wake up in the morning , and the United States would not have taken any action . What I meant by that phrase was that anyone who does these things , violates our rights in the future , is not going to be able to go to bed with that confidence . Walt . Well , the SALT treaty , first of all , I think , permits a continued buildup on both sides of strategic nuclear weapons but , in the main thing , authorizes an immediate increase in large numbers of Soviet warheads . There is no verification as to the number of warheads on the missile , no method for us to do this . I do not think that a treaty SALT means strategic arms limitation that actually permits a buildup , on both sides , of strategic nuclear weapons can properly be called that . And I have said that when we can and I am willing for our people to go in to negotiate or , let me say , discussions leading to negotiations that we should start negotiating on the basis of trying to effect an actual reduction in the numbers of nuclear weapons . That would then be real strategic arms limitation . And I happen to believe , also , that you cannot sit down at a table and just negotiate that unless you take into account , in consideration at that table all the other things that are going on . In other words , I believe in linkage . Sam . Well , so far detente s been a one way street that the Soviet Union has used to pursue its own aims . I do not have to think of an answer as to what I think their intentions are they have repeated it . I know of no leader of the Soviet Union since the revolution , and including the present leadership , that has not more than once repeated in the various Communist congresses they hold their determination that their goal must be the promotion of world revolution and a one world Socialist or Communist state , whichever word you want to use . Now , as long as they do that and as long as they , at the same time , have openly and publicly declared that the only morality they recognize is what will further their cause , meaning they reserve unto themselves the right to commit any crime , to lie , to cheat , in order to attain that , and that is moral , not immoral , and we operate on a different set of standards , I think when you do business with them , even at a detente , you keep that in mind . My opinion of American companies that want to resume business with Iran I hope they are going to do it by long distance . We would not want to go back to having just a different cast of characters , but the same show going on . I can understand that , particularly in the field of energy , their wanting to do that , but we are urging the people to think long and hard before they travel to Iran , because we do not think their safety can be guaranteed there . . Can you tell us the status of their cases and whether the administration is doing anything to get them back I have told our people about those three . They knew about them , of course , but I have told them that , yes , we continue and we want to get them back , also . Now , I know I have been staying down front here too much . I have got to prove I can look at the back rows there . You , sir . No , there will be no retreat . This administration is going to be dedicated to equality . I think we have made great progress in the civil rights field . I think there are some things , however , that may not be as useful as they once were or that may even be distorted in the practice , such as some affirmative action programs becoming quota systems . And I am old enough to remember when quotas existed in the United States for the purpose of discrimination , and I do not want to see that happen again . Well , we have not dealt with that problem yet . We thought oil would do for a starter . But I cannot really answer your question . That will be a matter for discussion in future Cabinet meetings . Lou . Well , with the grain embargo , my quarrel with it from the first was that I thought it was asking only one group of Americans to participate , the farmers . You only have two choices with an embargo You either lift it , or you broaden it . And we have not made a decision except that , at the request of Secretary of Agriculture John Block , I have taken the matter of the embargo out of , you might say , the discussions of the National Security Council , and it , next week , is on the agenda for a full Cabinet meeting as to what our course will be . So , I cannot answer what we do about it until next week . As I say , it was asking one group of Americans to bear the burden and , I have always thought , was more of a kind of gesture than it was something real . Yes , madam . Just a few minutes before I came in here , that message was handed to me that the Atlanta mayor wanted to talk , and we are going to get someone in touch with him immediately . Now , you recognize , of course , that possibly civil rights would be the only basis upon which we could have any jurisdiction down there in this . For FBfor example , on any other thing , there is been no evidence of crossing State lines or anything . And yet we want to be helpful , because that is a most tragic case , and so we will be meeting on that very shortly . Well , I think we have seen a great reverse in the Caribbean situation , and it came about through Prime Minister Seaga s election . It was the turnover or turn around of a nation that had gone , certainly , in the direction of the Communist movement it was a protege of Castro . And his election was greeted by me with great enthusiasm , because it represented the people by their vote , having experienced that kind of government , turned another direction . And I think this opens the door for us to have a policy in the Mediterranean of bringing them back in those countries that might have started in that direction or keeping them in the Western World , in the free world . And so , we are looking forward to cooperation with Prime Minister Seaga . What d I say Oh . I meant Caribbean . I am sorry . Well , to answer the last part first , I just did not feel that the advance registration , on all the evidence we could get , would materially speed up the process if an emergency required the draft . It did create a bureaucracy . It caused , certainly , some unrest and dissatisfaction . And we were told that it would only be a matter of several days if we had to call up in a draft , that we could do that several days earlier with the registration than we would be able if there was no registration at all . This is one that is something to be looked at further down . I have only been here 9 days , and most of these 9 days have been spent in Cabinet meetings on the economy , getting ready to send our package up to the Hill . And so , I just have to tell you that we will be dealing with that , meet with that , and make a decision on what to do with it down the road someplace . Gary . I had like to see it all go forward all at once . As to date , I know there is been talk about whether it should be retroactive back or whether it should be as of that minute . That , to me , is not as important as getting for individuals the principle of a 10 percent cut for each of 3 years in place and the business taxes , also , so that we can all look forward with some confidence of stability in the program . And we are going to strive for that . And I cannot really answer you about what the date will be until we submit the package . Well , again , I have to ask your forbearance and wait until we have finished our study of this whole situation as to what we are going to do . I do not think any of us have a friendly feeling toward the people that have done what they have done . But I think it is too complex for me to answer until we have had time to really study this . At this point , no . I have not retreated from that at all . Yes . The process , however , that I have asked for is for both Secretary Bell of Education and Secretary Jim Edwards of Energy to reorganize , to produce the most effective streamlining of their Departments that they can in Education , to look at the appropriate role of the Federal Government in education , if there is one , and to report back . And then we will decide , making our recommendations . Much the same thing holds true with the Department of Energy . The reason for this being that while they were new Cabinet level agencies , they incorporated government functions and programs that had been going on in them , and they came under that umbrella . And we have to find out which of those functions that have been a Federal Government function continue and where they would best fit . But , yes , I am determined , and I believe that it was wrong to have created the two agencies to begin with . Well , I could only tell you that this , again , is something to wait for the next Cabinet meeting . All of these things are worked out between the appropriate Cabinet members and our Director of OMand then they come to the Cabinet for full discussion so that others who have an interest in this can have their input . And so , I cannot answer you , because that has not yet come to the Cabinet . Of the you said Iran , the border between Iran and the Soviet Union . Well , I think one of the first things that has to happen for stability , has got to be , in Iran itself , to establish a government that can speak as a government for Iran . And part of our problem in all these long 444 days has been the inability of anyone seemingly to speak for that nation , to have a government . Now , I think that any country would want to help another if they really showed an intent to have a government that would abide by international law and do what they could to help them in that regard . But until such a thing appears apparent there , I do not know that there is anything we can do . Well , what good would just revenge do , and what form would that take I do not think revenge is worthy of us . On the other hand , I do not think we act as if this never happened . And I had rather wait until , as I say , we complete this study . Who said I know I have been on this side too long , but someone said , Por favor . We are definitely recruiting and definitely trying to do that . I want an administration that will be representative of the country as a whole , and please do not judge us on the fact that we have only picked a hundred . There will be 1 , 700 positions to fill in the executive branch and the White House senior staff and staff . And the personnel committee in our administration that is talent hunting and looking for these people contains members of the minorities , Hispanics , and even a majority of women , and we want that very much . So , do not judge us now by the tip of the iceberg . Wait till it is all in . President Paul Volcker , the Chairman of the Federal Reserve Board , has been implementing policies that are exactly opposite in basic thrust from what you recommend . He has been squeezing the productive sector of the economy in favor of the speculative sector . Now , I mean frankly , President , there are important sections of the American economy that are about to go under and will not even have an opportunity to benefit from the programs that you are putting forward because of the Federal Reserve policy . No , I am not concerned that there would be sabotage . I have met with Volcker , and not with the intention of trying to dictate , because it is an independent agency , and I respect that . But I think that we have to face the fact that interest rates are not in themselves a cause of inflation they are a consequence . And when you have , as we have had , double digit inflation back to back for 2 solid years now the last time that happened was in World War I and when you have double digit inflation there , that way there is no question that interest rates are going to have to go up and follow that inflation rate . And so , the answer to the interest rates is going to be our program of reducing government spending , tied to the reduction of the tax rates that we have spoken of to bring down inflation , and you will find that interest rates come down . We do want from the Fed and would ask for a moderate policy of money supply increasing relative to legitimate growth . All of these things have to work together . But I do not think that the Fed just deliberately raises interest rates . The reason that we have got to tie taxes and we have to tie spending together is we , for all these decades , we have talked and we have talked about solving these problems , and we have acted as if the two were separate . So , one year we fight inflation and then unemployment goes up , and then the next year we fight unemployment and inflation goes up . It is time to keep the two together where they belong , and that is what we are going to do . Yes , sir . The only problem that I have had that is more difficult than knowing which hand raised to point to here and believe me , it bothers me I go home feeling guilty for all the hands that I could not point to . The only problem greater I have had is in the selection of personnel . Now , in many instances some of the people that have been mentioned , whose names that have been mentioned by others did not want a position in the administration helped , worked very hard , and wanted nothing for it . But you also have to recognize there are not that many positions . After all , look how many votes I had . You cannot reward them all . Thank you . All right . Thank you all very much .<speech_sep>Good evening . As I am speaking to you now , General Secretary Gorbachev is leaving on his return trip to the Soviet Union . His departure marks the end of three historic days here in Washington in which Gorbachev and I continued to build a foundation for better relations between our governments and our peoples . During these three days we took a step only a first step , but still a critical one toward building a more durable peace , indeed , a step that may be the most important taken since World War II to slow down the arms buildup . I am referring to the treaty that we signed Tuesday afternoon in the East Room of the White House . I believe this treaty represents a landmark in postwar history , because it is not just an arms control but an arms reduction agreement . Unlike treaties of the past , this agreement does not simply establish ceilings for new weapons It actually reduces the number of such weapons . In fact , it altogether abolishes an entire class of and Soviet nuclear missiles . The verification measures in this treaty are also something new with far reaching implications . On site inspections and short notice inspections will be permitted within the Soviet Union . Again , this is a first time event , a breakthrough , and that is why I believe this treaty will not only lessen the threat of war , it can also speed along a process that may someday remove that threat entirely . Indeed , this treaty , and all that we have achieved during this summit , signals a broader understanding between the United States and the Soviet Union . It is an understanding that will help keep the peace as we work toward the ultimate goal of our foreign policy a world where the people of every land can decide for themselves their form of government and way of life . Yet as important as the INF treaty is , there is a further and even more crucial point about the last three days and the entire summit process Soviet American relations are no longer focused only on arms control issues . They now cover a far broader agenda , one that has , at its root , realism and candor . Let me explain this with a saying I have often repeated Nations do not distrust each other because they are armed they are armed because they distrust each other . And just as real peace means the presence of freedom and justice as well as the absence of war , so , too , summits must be discussions not just about arms but about the fundamental differences that cause nations to be armed . Dealing then with the deeper sources of conflict between nations and systems of government is a practical and moral imperative . And that is why it was vital to establish a broader summit agenda , one that dealt not only with arms reductions but also people to people contacts between our nations and , most important , the issues of human rights and regional conflicts . This is the summit agenda we have adopted . By doing so , we have dealt not just with arms control issues but also with fundamental problems such as Soviet expansionism , human rights violations , as well as our own moral opposition to the ideology that justifies such practices . In this way , we have put Soviet American relations on a far more candid and far more realistic footing . It also means that , while there is movement indeed , dramatic movement in the arms reduction area , much remains to be done in that area as well as in these other critical areas that I have mentioned , especially and this goes without saying in advancing our goal of a world open to the expansion of human freedom and the growth of democratic government . So , much work lies ahead . Let me explain On the matter of regional conflicts , I spoke candidly with Gorbachev on the issues of Afghanistan , Iran Iraq , Cambodia , Angola , and Nicaragua . I continue to have high hopes and he assured me that he did too that we can have real cooperation in resolving regional conflicts on terms that promote peace and freedom . This is essential to a lasting improvement in our relations . So , too , on human rights , there was some very limited movement resolution of a number of individual eases in which prisoners will be released or exit visas granted . There were assurances of future , more substantial movement , which we hope to see become a reality . And finally , with regard to the last item on our agenda scientific , educational , cultural , and economic exchanges we agreed to expand cooperation in ways that will break down some of the artificial barriers between our nations . For example , agreement was reached to expand and improve civil air service between our two countries . But let me point out here that , while much work is ahead of us , the progress we have made , especially in arms reduction , does reflect a better understanding between ourselves and the Soviets . It also reflects something deeper . You see , since my first meeting with General Secretary Gorbachev in 1985 , I have always regarded you , the American people , as full participants in our discussions . Though it may surprise Gorbachev to discover that all this time there has been a third party in the room with us , I do firmly believe the principal credit for the patience and persistence that brought success this year belongs to you , the American people . Your support over these last seven years has laid the basis for these negotiations . Your support made it possible for us to rebuild our military strength , to liberate Grenada , to strike hard against terrorism in Libya , and more recently to protect our strategic interests and bolster our friends in the Persian Gulf . Your support made possible our policy of helping freedom fighters like those in Afghanistan , Nicaragua , Angola , Cambodia , and other places around the globe . And when last year at Reykjavik I refused Soviet demands that we trade away SDour Strategic Defense Initiative that could erect a space shield against ballistic missiles , your overwhelming support made it clear to the Soviet leaders that the American people prefer no deal to a bad deal and will back their President on matters of national security . In short , your support for our foreign policy goals building a safer peace as we advance the cause of world freedom has helped bring the Soviets to the bargaining table . It makes it possible now to hope for a real , fundamental improvement in our relations . You know , the question has often been asked whether democratic leaders who are accountable to their people are not at a grave disadvantage in negotiating with leaders of totalitarian States who bear no such burden . Well , believe me , I think I can answer that question . I can speak from personal experience . Over the long run , no leader at the bargaining table can enjoy any greater advantage than the knowledge that he has behind him a people who are strong and free and alert and resolved to remain that way people like you . And it is this kind of informed and enlightened support , this hidden strength of democratic government , that enabled us to do what we did this week at the Washington summit . Now that the treaty s been signed , it will be submitted to the Senate for the next step the ratification process . I will meet with the leadership of Congress here tomorrow morning , and I am confident that the Senate will now act in an expeditious way to fulfill its duty under our Constitution . To this end , let me explain the background . In the mid and late 1970 s the Soviets began to deploy hundreds of new , mobile intermediate range missiles capable of destroying major cities and military installations in Europe and Asia . This action was an unprovoked , new dimension of the threat against our friends and allies on both continents , a new threat to which the democratic nations had no comparable counter . Despite intense pressure from the Soviets , NATO proceeded with what we called a two track policy . First , we would deploy a limited number of our own INF missiles as a deterrent , but at the same time push hard in negotiations to do away with this entirely new nuclear threat . And we set out to do this with a formula I first put forward in 1981 . It was called the zero option . It meant the complete elimination of these missiles on both sides . Well , at first , many called this a mere propaganda ploy , some even here in this country . But we were persistent , our allies steadfast , and eventually the Soviets returned to the bargaining table . The result is our INF treaty . As you see from the map on the screen now , the Soviet missiles , which will be removed and eliminated under the treaty , have been a major threat to the security of our friends and allies on two continents , Europe and Asia . Under the terms of this treaty , we will be eliminating 400 deployed warheads , while the Soviet Union eliminates 1 , 600 , or four times as many . Now , let me also point out that this does not , however , leave NATO unprotected . In fact , we will maintain a substantial deterrent force on the ground , in the air , and at sea . Our commitment to NATO s strategy of being able to respond as necessary to any form of aggression remains steadfast . And with regard to verification , as I have mentioned , we have the breakthroughs of on site inspections and short notice inspections not only at potential missile deployment sites but at the facility where the Soviet SS 20 missiles and their components have been assembled . We have a verification procedure that assures each side that the missiles of the other side have been destroyed and that new ones are not built . Here , then , is a treaty that shows how persistence and consistency eventually can pay off in arms negotiations . And let me assure you , too , that this treaty has been accomplished with unprecedented consultation with our allies and friends . I have spoken personally with the leaders of the major democracies , as has Secretary Shultz and our diplomats . This treaty has full allied support . But if persistence is paying off in our arms reduction efforts , the question of human rights and regional conflicts are still problems in our relations . But I am pleased that some progress has been made in these areas , also . Now , in addition to these candid exchanges on our four part agenda , Gorbachev and I did do some important planning for a Moscow summit next year . We agreed that we must redouble our efforts to reach agreements on reducing the levels of and Soviet long range , or strategic , nuclear arms , as I have proposed in the START negotiations . He and I made real progress toward our goal first agreed to at Geneva to achieve deep , 50 percent cuts in our arsenals of those powerful weapons . We agreed that we should build on our efforts to achieve agreement on a START treaty at the earliest possible date , and we have instructed our delegations in Geneva accordingly . Now , I believe deep reductions in these offensive weapons , along with the development of SDwould do much to make the world safer . For that reason , I made it clear that our SDI program will continue and that when we have a defense ready to deploy we will do so . About the future , Gorbachev and I also agreed that as nuclear weapons are reduced it becomes all the more important to redress the disparities in conventional and chemical weapons , where the Soviets now enjoy significant advantages over the United States and our allies . I think then from all of this you can see not only the direction of Soviet American relations but the larger framework of American foreign policy . As I told the British Parliament in 1982 , we seek to rid the world of the two great nightmares of the postwar era the threat of nuclear war and the threat of totalitarianism . And that is why , by pursuing SDwhich is a defense against offensive missiles , and by going for arms reduction rather than just arms control , we are moving away from the so called policy of mutual assured destruction , by which nations hold each other hostage to nuclear terror and destruction . So , too , we are saying that the postwar policy of containment is no longer enough , that the goal of American foreign policy is both world peace and world freedom , that as a people we hope and will work for a day when all of God s children will enjoy the human dignity that their creator intended . I believe we gained some ground with regard to that cause in these last few days . Since my first days in office , I have argued that the future belongs not to repressive or totalitarian ways of life but to the cause of freedom freedom of the marketplace , freedom to speak , assemble , and vote . And when we see the progress of democracy in these last years , from Latin America to Asia , we must be optimistic about the future of our children . When we were together in Iceland , Gorbachev told me that this sort of talk is sometimes viewed in the Soviet Union as a threat , but I told him then and I have said since then that this is no threat at all but only a dream the American dream . And it is a dream that has meant so much to so many , a dream that still shines out to the world . You know , a couple of years ago , Nancy and I were deeply moved by a story told by former New York Times reporter and Greek immigrant Nicholas Gage . It is the story of Eleni , his mother , a woman caught in one of the terrible struggles of the postwar era , the Greek civil war at the end of World War Ia mother who was tried and executed because she smuggled her children out to safety in America . It is also the story of how her son secretly vowed to return to Greece someday to take vengeance on the man who had sent his mother to her death . But at the end of the story , Nicholas Gage finds he cannot extract the vengeance he promised himself . Gage writes it would have relieved the pain that had filled him for so many years , but it would also have broken the one bridge still connecting him to his mother , that part of him most like her . As he tells it . . . and her final cry was not a curse on her killers , but an invocation of what she had died for a declaration of love . These simple last words of Gage s mother , of Eleni , were My children . How that cry echoes down through the centuries , a cry for all children of the world , a cry for peace , for a world of love and understanding . And it is the hope of heeding such words the call for freedom and peace spoken by a chosen people in a promised land , the call spoken by the Nazar carpenter Nazarene carpenter , I should say , standing at the Sea of Galilee , the carpenter whose birth into the poverty of a stable we celebrate it is these words that we remember as the holiday season approaches and we reflect on the events of this week here in Washington . So , let us remember the children and the future we want for them . And let us never forget that this promise of peace and freedom , the gift that is ours as Americans , the gift that we seek to share with all the world , depends for its strength on the spiritual source from which it comes . So , during this holy season , let us also reflect that in the prayers of simple people there is more power and might than that possessed by all the great statesmen or armies of the Earth . Let us then thank God for all His blessings to this nation , and ask Him for His help and guidance so that we might continue the work of peace and foster the hope of a world where human freedom is enshrined . To sum up then This summit was a clear success . We made progress on each item in our four part agenda . Gorbachev and I have agreed to meet in several months in Moscow to continue what we have achieved during these past three days . I believe there is reason for both hope and optimism .<speech_sep>Father Hesburgh , I thank you very much and for so many things . The distinguished honor that you have conferred upon me here today , I must say , however , compounds a sense of guilt that I have nursed for almost 50 years . I thought the first degree I was given was honorary . But it is wonderful to be here today with Governor Orr , Governor Bowen , Senators Lugar and Quayle , and Representative Hiler , these distinguished honorees , the trustees , administration , faculty , students , and friends of Notre Dame and , most important , the graduating class of 1981 . Nancy and I are greatly honored to share this day with you , and our pleasure has been more than doubled because I am also sharing the platform with a longtime and very dear friend , Pat O Brien . Pat and I have not been able to see much of each other lately , so I have not had a chance to tell him that there is now another tie that binds us together . Until a few weeks ago I knew very little about my father s ancestry . He had been orphaned at age 6 . But now I have learned that his grandfather , my great grandfather , left Ireland to come to America , leaving his home in Ballyporeen , a village in County Tipperary in Ireland , and I have learned that Ballyporeen is the ancestral home of the O Briens . Now , if I do not watch out , this may turn out to be less of a commencement than a warm bath in nostalgic memories . Growing up in Illinois , I was influenced by a sports legend so national in scope , it was almost mystical . It is difficult to explain to anyone who did not live in those times . The legend was based on a combination of three elements a game , football a university , Notre Dame and a man , Knute Rockne . There has been nothing like it before or since . My first time to ever see Notre Dame was to come here as a sports announcer , 2 years out of college , to broadcast a football game . You won or I would not have mentioned it . A number of years later I returned here in the company of Pat O Brien and a galaxy of Hollywood stars for the world premiere of Knute Rockne All American in which I was privileged to play George Gipp . I have always suspected that there might have been many actors in Hollywood who could have played the part better , but no one could have wanted to play it more than I did . And I was given the part largely because the star of that picture , Pat O Brien , kindly and generously held out a helping hand to a beginning young actor . Having come from the world of sports , I had been trying to write a story about Knute Rockne . I must confess that I had someone in mind to play the Gipper . On one of my sports broadcasts before going to Hollywood , I had told the story of his career and tragic death . I did not have very many words on paper when I learned that the studio that employed me was already preparing a story treatment for that film . And that brings me to the theme of my remarks . I am the fifth President of the United States to address a Notre Dame commencement . The temptation is great to use this forum as an address on a great international or national issue that has nothing to do with this occasion . Indeed , this is somewhat traditional . So , I was not surprised when I read in several reputable journals that I was going to deliver an address on foreign policy or on the economy . I am not going to talk about either . But , by the same token , I will try not to belabor you with some of the standard rhetoric that is beloved of graduation speakers . For example , I am not going to tell you that You know more today that you have ever known before or that you will ever know again . The other standby is , When I was 14 , I did not think my father knew anything . By the time I was 21 , I was amazed at how much the old gentleman had learned in 7 years . And then , of course , the traditional and the standby is that A university like this is a storehouse of knowledge because the freshmen bring so much in and the seniors take so little away . You members of the graduating class of 18 or 1981 I do not really go back that far are what behaviorists call achievers . And while you will look back with warm pleasure on your memories of these years that brought you here to where you are today , you are also , I know , looking at the future that seems uncertain to most of you but which , let me assure you , offers great expectations . Take pride in this day . Thank your parents , as one on your behalf has already done here . Thank those who have been of help to you over the last 4 years . And do a little celebrating you are entitled . This is your day , and whatever I say should take cognizance of that fact . It is a milestone in life , and it marks a time of change . Winston Churchill , during the darkest period of the Battle of Britain in World War II said When great causes are on the move in the world . . . we learn we are spirits , not animals , and that something is going on in space and time , and beyond space and time , which , whether we like it or not , spells duty . Now , I am going to mention again that movie that Pat and I and Notre Dame were in , because it says something about America . First , Knute Rockne as a boy came to America with his parents from Norway . And in the few years it took him to grow up to college age , he became so American that here at Notre Dame , he became an All American in a game that is still , to this day , uniquely American . As a coach , he did more than teach young men how to play a game . He believed truly that the noblest work of man was building the character of man . And maybe that is why he was a living legend . No man connected with football has ever achieved the stature or occupied the singular niche in the Nation that he carved out for himself , not just in a sport , but in our entire social structure . Now , today I hear very often , Win one for the Gipper , spoken in a humorous vein . Lately I have been hearing it by Congressmen who are supportive of the programs that I have introduced . But let us look at the significance of that story . Rockne could have used Gipp s dying words to win a game any time . But 8 years went by following the death of George Gipp before Rock revealed those dying words , his deathbed wish . And then he told the story at halftime to a team that was losing , and one of the only teams he had ever coached that was torn by dissension and jealousy and factionalism . The seniors on that team were about to close out their football careers without learning or experiencing any of the real values that a game has to impart . None of them had known George Gipp . They were children when he played for Notre Dame . It was to this team that Rockne told the story and so inspired them that they rose above their personal animosities . For someone they had never known , they joined together in a common cause and attained the unattainable . We were told when we were making the picture of one line that was spoken by a player during that game . We were actually afraid to put it in the picture . The man who carried the ball over for the winning touchdown was injured on the play . We were told that as he was lifted on the stretcher and carried off the field he was heard to say , That is the last one I can get for you , Gipper . Now , it is only a game . And maybe to hear it now , afterward and this is what we feared it might sound maudlin and not the way it was intended . But is there anything wrong with young people having an experience , feeling something so deeply , thinking of someone else to the point that they can give so completely of themselves There will come times in the lives of all of us when we will be faced with causes bigger than ourselves , and they will not be on a playing field . This Nation was born when a band of men , the Founding Fathers , a group so unique we have never seen their like since , rose to such selfless heights . Lawyers , tradesmen , merchants , farmers 56 men achieved security and standing in life but valued freedom more . They pledged their lives , their fortunes , and their sacred honor . Sixteen of them gave their lives . Most gave their fortunes . All preserved their sacred honor . They gave us more than a nation . They brought to all mankind for the first time the concept that man was born free , that each of us has inalienable rights , ours by the grace of God , and that government was created by us for our convenience , having only the powers that we choose to give it . This is the heritage that you are about to claim as you come out to join the society made up of those who have preceded you by a few years , or some of us by a great many . This experiment in man s relation to man is a few years into its third century . Saying that may make it sound quite old . But let us look at it from another viewpoint or perspective . A few years ago , someone figured out that if you could condense the entire history of life on Earth into a motion picture that would run for 24 hours a day , 365 days maybe on leap years we could have an intermission this idea that is the United States would not appear on the screen until 31 2 seconds before midnight on December 31st . And in those 3 seconds not only would a new concept of society come into being , a golden hope for all mankind , but more than half the activity , economic activity in world history , would take place on this continent . Free to express their genius , individual Americans , men and women , in 3 1 2 seconds , would perform such miracles of invention , construction , and production as the world had never seen . As you join us out there beyond the campus , you know there are great unsolved problems . Federalism , with its built in checks and balances , has been distorted . Central government has usurped powers that properly belong to local and State governments . And in so doing , in many ways that central government has begun to fail to do the things that are truly the responsibility of a central government . All of this has led to the misuse of power and preemption of the prerogatives of people and their social institutions . You are graduating from a great private , or , if you will , independent university . Not too many years ago , such schools were relatively free from government interference . In recent years , government has spawned regulations covering virtually every facet of our lives . The independent and church supported colleges and universities have found themselves enmeshed in that network of regulations and the costly blizzard of paperwork that government is demanding . Thirty four congressional committees and almost 80 subcommittees have jurisdiction over 439 separate laws affecting education at the college level alone . Almost every aspect of campus life is now regulated hiring , firing , promotions , physical plant , construction , record keeping , fund raising and , to some extent , curriculum and educational programs . I hope when you leave this campus that you will do so with a feeling of obligation to your alma mater . She will need your help and support in the years to come . If ever the great independent colleges and universities like Notre Dame give way to and are replaced by tax supported institutions , the struggle to preserve academic freedom will have been lost . We are troubled today by economic stagnation , brought on by inflated currency and prohibitive taxes and burdensome regulations . The cost of stagnation in human terms , mostly among those least equipped to survive it , is cruel and inhuman . Now , after those remarks , do not decide that you had better turn your diploma back in so you can stay another year on the campus . I have just given you the bad news . The good news is that something is being done about all this because the people of America have said , Enough already . You know , we who had preceded you had just gotten so busy that we let things get out of hand . We forgot that we were the keepers of the power , forgot to challenge the notion that the state is the principal vehicle of social change , forgot that millions of social interactions among free individuals and institutions can do more to foster economic and social progress than all the careful schemes of government planners . Well , at last we are remembering , remembering that government has certain legitimate functions which it can perform very well , that it can be responsive to the people , that it can be humane and compassionate , but that when it undertakes tasks that are not its proper province , it can do none of them as well or as economically as the private sector . For too long government has been fixing things that are not broken and inventing miracle cures for unknown diseases . We need you . We need your youth . We need your strength . We need your idealism to help us make right that which is wrong . Now , I know that this period of your life , you have been and are critically looking at the mores and customs of the past and questioning their value . Every generation does that . May I suggest , do not discard the time tested values upon which civilization was built simply because they are old . More important , do not let today s doom criers and cynics persuade you that the best is past , that from here on it is all downhill . Each generation sees farther than the generation that preceded it because it stands on the shoulders of that generation . You are going to have opportunities beyond anything that we have ever known . The people have made it plain already . They want an end to excessive government intervention in their lives and in the economy , an end to the burdensome and unnecessary regulations and a punitive tax policy that does take from the mouth of labor the bread it has earned . They want a government that cannot only continue to send men across the vast reaches of space and bring them safely home , but that can guarantee that you and I can walk in the park of our neighborhood after dark and get safely home . And finally , they want to know that this Nation has the ability to defend itself against those who would seek to pull it down . And all of this , we the people can do . Indeed , a start has already been made . There is a task force under the leadership of the Vice President , George Bush , that is to look at those regulations I have spoken of . They have already identified hundreds of them that can be wiped out with no harm to the quality of life . And the cancellation of just those regulations will leave billions and billions of dollars in the hands of the people for productive enterprise and research and development and the creation of jobs . The years ahead are great ones for this country , for the cause of freedom and the spread of civilization . The West will not contain communism , it will transcend communism . It will not bother to dismiss or denounce it , it will dismiss it as some bizarre chapter in human history whose last pages are even now being written . William Faulkner , at a Nobel Prize ceremony some time back , said man would not only endure he will prevail against the modern world because he will return to the old verities and truths of the heart . And then Faulkner said of man , He is immortal because he alone among creatures . . . has a soul , a spirit capable of compassion and sacrifice and endurance . One cannot say those words compassion , sacrifice , and endurance without thinking of the irony that one who so exemplifies them , Pope John Paul Ia man of peace and goodness , an inspiration to the world , would be struck by a bullet from a man towards whom he could only feel compassion and love . It was Pope John Paul II who warned in last year s encyclical on mercy and justice against certain economic theories that use the rhetoric of class struggle to justify injustice . He said , In the name of an alleged justice the neighbor is sometimes destroyed , killed , deprived of liberty or stripped of fundamental human rights . For the West , for America , the time has come to dare to show to the world that our civilized ideas , our traditions , our values , are not like the ideology and war machine of totalitarian societies just a facade of strength . It is time for the world to know our intellectual and spiritual values are rooted in the source of all strength , a belief in a Supreme Being , and a law higher than our own . When it is written , history of our time will not dwell long on the hardships of the recent past . But history will ask and our answer determine the fate of freedom for a thousand years Did a nation born of hope lose hope Did a people forged by courage find courage wanting Did a generation steeled by hard war and a harsh peace forsake honor at the moment of great climactic struggle for the human spirit If history asks such questions , it also answers them . And the answers are to be found in the heritage left by generations of Americans before us . They stand in silent witness to what the world will soon know and history someday record that in the third century , the American Nation came of age , affirmed its leadership of free men and women serving selflessly a vision of man with God , government for people , and humanity at peace . A few years ago , an Australian Prime Minister , John Gorton , said , I wonder if anybody ever thought what the situation for the comparatively small nations in the world would be if there were not in existence the United States , if there were not this giant country prepared to make so many sacrifices . This is the noble and rich heritage rooted in great civil ideas of the West , and it is yours . My hope today is that in the years to come and come it shall when it is your time to explain to another generation the meaning of the past and thereby hold out to them their promise of the future , that you will recall the truths and traditions of which we have spoken . It is these truths and traditions that define our civilization and make up our national heritage . And now , they are yours to protect and pass on . I have one more hope for you when you do speak to the next generation about these things , that you will always be able to speak of an America that is strong and free , to find in your hearts an unbounded pride in this much loved country , this once and future land , this bright and hopeful nation whose generous spirit and great ideals the world still honors . Congratulations , and God bless you .<speech_sep>President , Ford , Vice President , Vice President to be , the distinguished guests here , you ladies and gentlemen . I was going to say fellow Republicans here but those who are watching from a distance , all those millions of Democrats and independents who I know are looking for a cause around which to rally and which I believe we can give them . President , before you arrive tonight , these wonderful people , here , when we came in , gave Nancy and myself a welcome . That , plus this , plus your kindness and generosity in honoring us by bringing us down here will give us a memory that will live in our hearts forever . Watching on television these last few nights I have seen also the warmth with which you greeted Nancy and you also filled my heart with joy when you did that . May I say some words . There are cynics who say that a party platform is something that no one bothers to read and is does not very often amount to much . Whether it is different this time than is has ever been before , I believe the Republican party has a platform that is a banner of bold , unmistakable colors with no pale pastel shades . We have just heard a call to arms , based on that platform . And a call to us to really be successful in communicating and reveal to the American people the difference between this platform and the platform of the opposing party which is nothing but a revamp and a reissue and a rerunning of a late , late show of the thing that we have been hearing from them for the last 40 years . If I could just take a moment , I had an assignment the other day . Someone asked me to write a letter for a time capsule that is going to opened in Los Angeles a hundred years from now , on our Tricentennial . It sounded like an easy assignment . They suggested I write about the problems and issues of the day . And I set out to do so , riding down the coast in an automobile , looking at the blue Pacific out on one side and the Santa Ynez Mountains on the other , and I could not help but wonder if it was going to be that beautiful a hundred years from now as it was on that summer day . And then as I tried to write let your own minds turn to that task . You are going to write for people a hundred years from now who know all about us , we know nothing about them . We do not know what kind of world they will be living in . And suddenly I thought to myself , If I write of the problems , they will be the domestic problems of which the President spoke here tonight the challenges confronting us , the erosion of freedom taken place under Democratic rule in this country , the invasion of private rights , the controls and restrictions on the vitality of the great free economy that we enjoy . These are the challenges that we must meet and then again there is that challenge of which he spoke that we live in a world in which the great powers have aimed and poised at each other horrible missiles of destruction , nuclear weapons that can in a matter of minutes arrive at each other s country and destroy virtually the civilized world we live in . And suddenly it dawned on me those who would read this letter a hundred years from now will know whether those missiles were fired . They will know whether we met our challenge . Whether they will have the freedom that we have known up until now will depend on what we do here . Will they look back with appreciation and say , Thank God for those people in 1976 who headed off that loss of freedom Who kept us now a hundred years later free Who kept our world from nuclear destruction And if we fail they probably will not get to read the letter at all because it spoke of individual freedom and they will not be allowed to talk of that or read of it . This is our challenge and this is why we are here in this hall tonight . Better than we have ever done before , we have got to quit talking to each other and about each other and go out and communicate to the world that we may be fewer in numbers than we have ever been but we carry the message they are waiting for . We must go forth from here united , determined and what a great general said a few years ago is true There is no substitute for victory . President .<speech_sep>Good evening . I am here tonight to announce my intention to seek the Republican nomination for President of the United States . I am sure that each of us has seen our country from a number of viewpoints depending on where we have lived and what we have done . For me it has been as a boy growing up in several small towns in Illinois . As a young man in Iowa trying to get a start in the years of the great depression and later in California for most of my adult life . I have seen America from the stadium press box as a sportscaster , as an actor , officer of my labor union , soldier , officeholder and as both Democrat and Republican . I have lived in an America where those who often had too little to eat outnumbered those who had enough . There have been four wars in my lifetime and I have seen our country face financial ruin in depression . I have also seen the great strength of this nation as it pulled itself up from that ruin to become the dominant force in the world . To me our country is a living , breathing presence , unimpressed by what others say is impossible , proud of its own success , generous , yes and na iuml ve , sometimes wrong , never mean and always impatient to provide a better life for its people in a framework of a basic fairness and freedom . Someone once said that the difference between an American and any other kind of person is that an American lives in anticipation of the future because he knows it will be a great place . Other people fear the future as just a repetition of past failures . There is a lot of truth in that . If there is one thing we are sure of it is that history need not be relived that nothing is impossible , and that man is capable of improving his circumstances beyond what we are told is fact . There are those in our land today , however , who would have us believe that the United States , like other great civilizations of the past , has reached the zenith of its power that we are weak and fearful , reduced to bickering with each other and no longer possessed of the will to cope with our problems . Much of this talk has come from leaders who claim that our problems are too difficult to handle . We are supposed to meekly accept their failures as the most which humanly can be done . They tell us we must learn to live with less , and teach our children that their lives will be less full and prosperous than ours have been that the America of the coming years will be a place where because of our past excesses it will be impossible to dream and make those dreams come true . I do not believe that . And , I do not believe you do either . That is why I am seeking the presidency . I cannot and will not stand by and see this great country destroy itself . Our leaders attempt to blame their failures on circumstances beyond their control , on false estimates by unknown , unidentifiable experts who rewrite modern history in an attempt to convince us our high standard of living , the result of thrift and hard work , is somehow selfish extravagance which we must renounce as we join in sharing scarcity . I do not agree that our nation must resign itself to inevitable decline , yielding its proud position to other hands . I am totally unwilling to see this country fail in its obligation to itself and to the other free peoples of the world . The crisis we face is not the result of any failure of the American spirit it is a failure of our leaders to establish rational goals and give our people something to order their lives by . If I am elected , I shall regard my election as proof that the people of the United States have decided to set a new agenda and have recognized that the human spirit thrives best when goals are set and progress can be measured in their achievement . During the next year I shall discuss in detail a wide variety of problems which a new administration must address . Tonight I shall mention only a few . No problem that we face today can compare with the need to restore the health of the American economy and the strength of the American dollar . Double digit inflation has robbed you and your family of the ability to plan . It has destroyed the confidence to buy and it threatens the very structure of family life itself as more and more wives are forced to work in order to help meet the ever increasing cost of living . At the same time , the lack of year growth in the economy has introduced the justifiable fear in the minds of working men and women who are already over extended that soon there will be fewer jobs and no money to pay for even the necessities of life . And tragically as the cost of living keeps going up , the standard of living which has been our great pride keeps going down . The people have not created this disaster in our economy the federal government has . It has overspent , overestimated , and over regulated . It has failed to deliver services within the revenues it should be allowed to raise from taxes . In the thirty four years since the end of World War Iit has spent 448 billion dollars more than it has collection in taxes 448 billion dollars of printing press money , which has made every dollar you earn worth less and less . At the same time , the federal government has cynically told us that high taxes on business will in some way solve the problem and allow the average taxpayer to pay less . Well , business is not a taxpayer , it is a tax collector . Business has to pass its tax burden on to the customer as part of the cost of doing business . You and I pay the taxes imposed on business every time we go to the store . Only people pay taxes and it is political demagoguery or economic illiteracy to try and tell us otherwise . The key to restoring the health of the economy lies in cutting taxes . At the same time , we need to get the waste out of federal spending . This does not mean sacrificing essential services , nor do we need to destroy the system of benefits which flow to the poor , the elderly , the sick and the handicapped . We have long since committed ourselves , as a people , to help those among us who cannot take care of themselves . But the federal government has proven to be the costliest and most inefficient provider of such help we could possibly have . We must put an end to the arrogance of a federal establishment which accepts no blame for our condition , cannot be relied upon to give us a fair estimate of our situation and utterly refuses to live within its means . I will not accept the supposed wisdom which has it that the federal bureaucracy has become so powerful that it can no longer be changed or controlled by any administration . As President I would use every power at my command to make the federal establishment respond to the will and the collective wishes of the people . We must force the entire federal bureaucracy to live in the real world of reduced spending , streamlined functions and accountability to the people it serves . We must review the functions of the federal government to determine which of those are the proper province of levels of government closer to the people . The 10th article of the Bill of Rights is explicit in pointing out that the federal government should do only those things specifically called for in the Constitution . All others shall remain with the states or the people . We have not been observing that 10th article of late . The federal government has taken on functions it was never intended to perform and which it does not perform well . There should be a planned , orderly transfer of such functions to states and communities and a transfer with them of the sources of taxation to pay for them . The savings in administrative would be considerable and certainly there would be increased efficiency and less bureaucracy . By reducing federal tax rates where they discourage individual initiative especially personal income tax rates we can restore incentives , invite greater economic growth and at the same time help give us better government instead of bigger government . Proposals such as the Kemp Roth bill would bring about this kind of realistic reductions in tax rates . In short , a punitive tax system must be replaced by one that restores incentive for the worker and for industry a system that rewards initiative and effort and encourages thrift . All these things are possible none of them will be easy . But the choice is clear . We can go on letting the country slip over the brink to financial ruin with the disaster that it means for the individual or we can find the will to work together to restore confidence in ourselves and to regain the confidence of the world . I have lived through one depression . I carry with me the memory of a Christmas Eve when my brother and I and our parents exchanged modest gifts there was no lighted tree as there had been on Christmases past . I remember watching my father open what he thought was a greeting from his employer . We all watched and yes , we were hoping for a bonus check . It was notice that he no longer had a job . And in those days the government ran radio announcements telling workers not to leave home looking for jobs there were no jobs . I will carry with me always the memory of my father sitting there holding that envelope , unable to look at us . I cannot and will not stand by while inflation and joblessness destroy the dignity of our people . Another serious problem which must be discussed tonight is our energy situation . Our country was built on cheap energy . Today , energy is not cheap and we face the prospect that some forms of energy may soon not be available at all . Last summer you probably spent hours sitting in gasoline lines . This winter , some will be without heat and everyone will be paying much more simply to keep home and family warm . If you ever had any doubt of the government s inability to provide for the needs of the people , just look at the utter fiasco we now call the energy crisis . Not one straight answer nor any realistic hope of relief has come from the present administration in almost three years of federal treatment of the problem . As gas lines grew , the administration again panicked and now has proposed to put the country on a wartime footing but for this war there is no victory in sight . And , as always , when the federal bureaucracy fails , all it can suggest is more of the same . This time it is another bureau to untangle the mess made by the ones we already have . But , this just will not work . Solving the energy crisis will not be easy , but it can be done . First we must decide that less is not enough . Next we must remove government obstacles to energy production . And , we must make use of those technological advantages we still possess . It is no program simply to say use less energy . Of course waste must be eliminated and efficiency promoted , but not an energy policy . At best it means we will run out of energy a little more slowly . But a day will come when the lights will dim and the wheels of industry will turn more slowly and finally stop . As President I will not endorse any course which has this as its principle objective . We need more energy and that means diversifying our sources of supply away from the OPEC countries . Yes , it means more efficient automobiles . But it also means more exploration and development of oil and natural gas here in our own country . The only way to free ourselves from the monopoly pricing power of OPEC is to be less dependent on outside sources of fuel . The answer obvious to anyone except those in the administration , it seems , is more domestic production of oil and gas . We must also have wider use of nuclear power within strict safety rules , of course . There must be more spending by the energy industries on research and development of substitutes for fossil fuels . In years to come solar energy may provide much of the answer but for the next two or three decades we must do such things as master the chemistry of coal . Putting the market system to work for these objectives is an essential first step for their achievement . Additional multi billion dollar federal bureaus and programs are not the answer . In recent weeks there has been much talk about excess oil company profits . I do not believe we have been given all the information we need to make a judgement about this . We should have that information . Government exists to protect us from each other . It is not government s function to allocate fuel or impose unnecessary restrictions on the marketplace . It is government s function to determine whether we are being unfairly exploited and if so to take immediate and appropriate action . As President I would do exactly that . On the foreign front , the decade of the 1980 s will place severe pressures upon the United States and its allies . We can expect to be tested in ways calculated to try our patience , to confound our resolve and to erode our belief in ourselves . During a time when the Soviet Union may enjoy nuclear superiority over this country , we must never waiver in our commitment to our allies nor accept any negotiation which is not clearly in the national interest . We must judge carefully . Though we should leave no initiative untried in our pursuit of peace , we must be clear voiced in our resolve to resist any unpeaceful act wherever it may occur . Negotiations with the Soviet Union must never become appeasement . For the most of the last forty years , we have been preoccupied with the global struggle the competition with the Soviet Union and with our responsibilities to our allies . But too often in recent times we have just drifted along with events , responding as if we thought of ourselves as a nation in decline . To our allies we seem to appear to be a nation unable to make decisions in its own interests , let alone in the common interest . Since the Second World War we have spent large amounts of money and much of our time protecting and defending freedom all over the world . We must continue this , for if we do not accept the responsibilities of leadership , who will And if no one will , how will we survive The 1970 s have taught us the foolhardiness of not having a long range diplomatic strategy of our own . The world has become a place where , in order to survive , our country needs more than just allies it needs real friends . Yet , in recent times we often seem not to have recognized who our friends are . This must change . It is now time to take stock of our own house and to resupply its strength . Part of that process involves taking stock of our relationship with Puerto Rico . I favor statehood for Puerto Rico and if the people of Puerto Rico vote for statehood in their coming referendum I would , as President , initiate the enabling legislation to make this a reality . We live on a continent whose three countries possess the assets to make it the strongest , most prosperous and self sufficient area on earth . Within the borders of this North American continent are the food , resources , technology and undeveloped territory which , properly managed , could dramatically improve the quality of life of all its inhabitants . It is no accident that this unmatched potential for progress and prosperity exists in three countries with such long standing heritages of free government . A developing closeness among Canada , Mexico and the United States a North American accord would permit achievement of that potential in each country beyond that which I believe any of them strong as they are could accomplish in the absence of such cooperation . In fact , the key to our own future security may lie in both Mexico and Canada becoming much stronger countries than they are today . No one can say at this point what form future cooperation among our three countries will take . But if I am elected President , I would be willing to invite each of our neighbors to send a special representative to our government to sit in on high level planning sessions with us , as partners , mutually concerned about the future of our Continent . First , I would immediately seek the views and ideas of Canadian and Mexican leaders on this issue , and work tirelessly with them to develop closer ties among our peoples . It is time we stopped thinking of our nearest neighbors as foreigners . By developing methods of working closely together , we will lay the foundations for future cooperation on a broader and more significant scale . We will also put to rest any doubts of those cynical enough to believe that the United States would seek to dominate any relationship among our three countries , or foolish enough to think that the governments and peoples of Canada and Mexico would ever permit such domination to occur . for one , am confident that we can show the world by example that the nations of North America are ready , within the context of an unswerving commitment to freedom , to seek new forms of accommodation to meet a changing world . A developing closeness between the United States , Canada and Mexico would serve notice on friend and foe alike that we were prepared for a long haul , looking outward again and confident our of future that together we are going to create jobs , to generate new fortunes of wealth for many and provide a legacy for the children of each of our countries . Two hundred years ago we taught the world that a new form of government , created out of the genius of man to cope with his circumstances , could succeed in bringing a measure of quality to human life previously thought impossible . Now let us work toward the goal of using the assets of this continent , its resources , technology and foodstuffs in the most efficient ways possible for the common good of all its people . It may take the next 100 years but we can dare to dream that at some future date a map of the world might show the North American continent as one in which the peoples and commerce of its three strong countries flow more freely across their present borders than they do today . In recent months leaders in our government have told us that , we , the people , have lost confidence in ourselves that we must regain the spirit and our will to achieve our national goals . Well , it is true there is a lack of confidence , an unease with things the way they are . But the confidence we have lost is confidence in our government s policies . Our unease can almost be called bewilderment at how our defense strength has deteriorated . The great productivity of our industry is now surpassed by virtually all the major nations who compete with us for world markets . And , our currency is no longer the stable measure of value it once was . But there remains the greatness of our people , our capacity for dreaming up fantastic deeds and bringing them off to the surprise of an unbelieving world . When Washington s men were freezing at Valley Forge , Tom Paine told his fellow Americans We have it in our power to begin the world over again . We still have that power . We today s living Americans have in our lifetime fought harder , paid a higher price for freedom and done more to advance the dignity of man than any people who ever lived on this earth . The citizens of this great nation want leadership yes but not a man on a white horse demanding obedience to his commands . They want someone who believes they can begin the world over again . A leader who will unleash their great strength and remove the roadblocks government has put in their way . I want to do that more than anything I have ever wanted . And it is something that I believe with God s help I can do . I believe this nation hungers for a spiritual revival hungers to once again see honor placed above political expediency to see government once again the protector of our liberties , not the distributor of gifts and privilege . Government should uphold and not undermine those institutions which are custodians of the very values upon which civilization is founded religion , education and , above all , family . Government cannot be clergyman , teacher and parent . It is our servant , beholden to us . We who are privileged to be Americans have had a rendezvous with destiny since the moment in 1630 when John Winthrop , standing on the deck of the tiny Arbella off the coast of Massachusetts , told the little band of pilgrims , We shall be as a city upon a hill . The eyes of all people are upon us so that if we shall deal falsely with our God in this work we have undertaken and so cause Him to withdraw His present help from us , we shall be made a story and a byword throughout the world . A troubled and afflicted mankind looks to us , pleading for us to keep our rendezvous with destiny that we will uphold the principles of self reliance , self discipline , morality , and above all responsible liberty for every individual that we will become that shining city on a hill . I believe that you and I together can keep this rendezvous with destiny . Thank you and good night .<speech_sep>My Lord Chancellor , Speaker The journey of which this visit forms a part is a long one . Already it has taken me to two great cities of the West , Rome and Paris , and to the economic summit at Versailles . And there , once again , our sister democracies have proved that even in a time of severe economic strain , free peoples can work together freely and voluntarily to address problems as serious as inflation , unemployment , trade , and economic development in a spirit of cooperation and solidarity . Other milestones lie ahead . Later this week , in Germany , we and our NATO allies will discuss measures for our joint defense and America s latest initiatives for a more peaceful , secure world through arms reductions . Each stop of this trip is important , but among them all , this moment occupies a special place in my heart and in the hearts of my countrymen a moment of kinship and homecoming in these hallowed halls . Speaking for all Americans , I want to say how very much at home we feel in your house . Every American would , because this is , as we have been so eloquently told , one of democracy s shrines . Here the rights of free people and the processes of representation have been debated and refined . It has been said that an institution is the lengthening shadow of a man . This institution is the lengthening shadow of all the men and women who have sat here and all those who have voted to send representatives here . This is my second visit to Great Britain as President of the United States . My first opportunity to stand on British soil occurred almost a year and a half ago when your Prime Minister graciously hosted a diplomatic dinner at the British Embassy in Washington . Thatcher said then that she hoped I was not distressed to find staring down at me from the grand staircase a portrait of His Royal Majesty King George IIShe suggested it was best to let bygones be bygones , and in view of our two countries remarkable friendship in succeeding years , she added that most Englishmen today would agree with Thomas Jefferson that a little rebellion now and then is a very good thing . Well , from here I will go to Bonn and then Berlin , where there stands a grim symbol of power untamed . The Berlin Wall , that dreadful gray gash across the city , is in its third decade . It is the fitting signature of the regime that built it . And a few hundred kilometers behind the Berlin Wall , there is another symbol . In the center of Warsaw , there is a sign that notes the distances to two capitals . In one direction it points toward Moscow . In the other it points toward Brussels , headquarters of Western Europe s tangible unity . The marker says that the distances from Warsaw to Moscow and Warsaw to Brussels are equal . The sign makes this point Poland is not East or West . Poland is at the center of European civilization . It has contributed mightily to that civilization . It is doing so today by being magnificently unreconciled to oppression . Poland s struggle to be Poland and to secure the basic rights we often take for granted demonstrates why we dare not take those rights for granted . Gladstone , defending the Reform Bill of 1866 , declared , You cannot fight against the future . Time is on our side . It was easier to believe in the march of democracy in Gladstone s day in that high noon of Victorian optimism . We are approaching the end of a bloody century plagued by a terrible political invention totalitarianism . Optimism comes less easily today , not because democracy is less vigorous , but because democracy s enemies have refined their instruments of repression . Yet optimism is in order , because day by day democracy is proving itself to be a not at all fragile flower . From Stettin on the Baltic to Varna on the Black Sea , the regimes planted by totalitarianism have had more than 30 years to establish their legitimacy . But none not one regime has yet been able to risk free elections . Regimes planted by bayonets do not take root . The strength of the Solidarity movement in Poland demonstrates the truth told in an underground joke in the Soviet Union . It is that the Soviet Union would remain a one party nation even if an opposition party were permitted , because everyone would join the opposition party . America s time as a player on the stage of world history has been brief . I think understanding this fact has always made you patient with your younger cousins well , not always patient . I do recall that on one occasion , Sir Winston Churchill said in exasperation about one of our most distinguished diplomats He is the only case I know of a bull who carries his china shop with him . But witty as Sir Winston was , he also had that special attribute of great statesmen the gift of vision , the willingness to see the future based on the experience of the past . It is this sense of history , this understanding of the past that I want to talk with you about today , for it is in remembering what we share of the past that our two nations can make common cause for the future . We have not inherited an easy world . If developments like the Industrial Revolution , which began here in England , and the gifts of science and technology have made life much easier for us , they have also made it more dangerous . There are threats now to our freedom , indeed to our very existence , that other generations could never even have imagined . There is first the threat of global war . No President , no Congress , no Prime Minister , no Parliament can spend a day entirely free of this threat . And I do not have to tell you that in today s world the existence of nuclear weapons could mean , if not the extinction of mankind , then surely the end of civilization as we know it . That is why negotiations on intermediate range nuclear forces now underway in Europe and the START talks Strategic Arms Reduction Talks which will begin later this month , are not just critical to American or Western policy they are critical to mankind . Our commitment to early success in these negotiations is firm and unshakable , and our purpose is clear reducing the risk of war by reducing the means of waging war on both sides . At the same time there is a threat posed to human freedom by the enormous power of the modern state . History teaches the dangers of government that overreaches political control taking precedence over free economic growth , secret police , mindless bureaucracy , all combining to stifle individual excellence and personal freedom . Now , I am aware that among us here and throughout Europe there is legitimate disagreement over the extent to which the public sector should play a role in a nation s economy and life . But on one point all of us are united our abhorrence of dictatorship in all its forms , but most particularly totalitarianism and the terrible inhumanities it has caused in our time the great purge , Auschwitz and Dachau , the Gulag , and Cambodia . Historians looking back at our time will note the consistent restraint and peaceful intentions of the West . They will note that it was the democracies who refused to use the threat of their nuclear monopoly in the forties and early fifties for territorial or imperial gain . Had that nuclear monopoly been in the hands of the Communist world , the map of Europe indeed , the world would look very different today . And certainly they will note it was not the democracies that invaded Afghanistan or supressed Polish Solidarity or used chemical and toxin warfare in Afghanistan and Southeast Asia . If history teaches anything it teaches self delusion in the face of unpleasant facts is folly . We see around us today the marks of our terrible dilemma predictions of doomsday , antinuclear demonstrations , an arms race in which the West must , for its own protection , be an unwilling participant . At the same time we see totalitarian forces in the world who seek subversion and conflict around the globe to further their barbarous assault on the human spirit . What , then , is our course Must civilization perish in a hail of fiery atoms Must freedom wither in a quiet , deadening accommodation with totalitarian evil Sir Winston Churchill refused to accept the inevitability of war or even that it was imminent . He said , I do not believe that Soviet Russia desires war . What they desire is the fruits of war and the indefinite expansion of their power and doctrines . But what we have to consider here today while time remains is the permanent prevention of war and the establishment of conditions of freedom and democracy as rapidly as possible in all countries . Well , this is precisely our mission today to preserve freedom as well as peace . It may not be easy to see but I believe we live now at a turning point . In an ironic sense Karl Marx was right . We are witnessing today a great revolutionary crisis , a crisis where the demands of the economic order are conflicting directly with those of the political order . But the crisis is happening not in the free , non Marxist West , but in the home of Marxist Leninism , the Soviet Union . It is the Soviet Union that runs against the tide of history by denying human freedom and human dignity to its citizens . It also is in deep economic difficulty . The rate of growth in the national product has been steadily declining since the fifties and is less than half of what it was then . The dimensions of this failure are astounding A country which employs one fifth of its population in agriculture is unable to feed its own people . Were it not for the private sector , the tiny private sector tolerated in Soviet agriculture , the country might be on the brink of famine . These private plots occupy a bare 3 percent of the arable land but account for nearly one quarter of Soviet farm output and nearly one third of meat products and vegetables . Overcentralized , with little or no incentives , year after year the Soviet system pours its best resource into the making of instruments of destruction . The constant shrinkage of economic growth combined with the growth of military production is putting a heavy strain on the Soviet people . What we see here is a political structure that no longer corresponds to its economic base , a society where productive forces are hampered by political ones . The decay of the Soviet experiment should come as no surprise to us . Wherever the comparisons have been made between free and closed societies West Germany and East Germany , Austria and Czechoslovakia , Malaysia and Vietnam it is the democratic countries what are prosperous and responsive to the needs of their people . And one of the simple but overwhelming facts of our time is this Of all the millions of refugees we have seen in the modern world , their flight is always away from , not toward the Communist world . Today on the NATO line , our military forces face east to prevent a possible invasion . On the other side of the line , the Soviet forces also face east to prevent their people from leaving . The hard evidence of totalitarian rule has caused in mankind an uprising of the intellect and will . Whether it is the growth of the new schools of economics in America or England or the appearance of the so called new philosophers in France , there is one unifying thread running through the intellectual work of these groups rejection of the arbitrary power of the state , the refusal to subordinate the rights of the individual to the superstate , the realization that collectivism stifles all the best human impulses . Since the exodus from Egypt , historians have written of those who sacrificed and struggled for freedom the stand at Thermopylae , the revolt of Spartacus , the storming of the Bastille , the Warsaw uprising in World War IMore recently we have seen evidence of this same human impulse in one of the developing nations in Central America . For months and months the world news media covered the fighting in El Salvador . Day after day we were treated to stories and film slanted toward the brave freedom fighters battling oppressive government forces in behalf of the silent , suffering people of that tortured country . And then one day those silent , suffering people were offered a chance to vote , to choose the kind of government they wanted . Suddenly the freedom fighters in the hills were exposed for what they really are Cuban backed guerrillas who want power for themselves , and their backers , not democracy for the people . They threatened death to any who voted , and destroyed hundreds of buses and trucks to keep the people from getting to the polling places . But on election day , the people of El Salvador , an unprecedented 1 . 4 million of them , braved ambush and gunfire , and trudged for miles to vote for freedom . They stood for hours in the hot sun waiting for their turn to vote . Members of our Congress who went there as observers told me of a women who was wounded by rifle fire on the way to the polls , who refused to leave the line to have her wound treated until after she had voted . A grandmother , who had been told by the guerrillas she would be killed when she returned from the polls , and she told the guerrillas , You can kill me , you can kill my family , kill my neighbors , but you cannot kill us all . The real freedom fighters of El Salvador turned out to be the people of that country the young , the old , the in between . Strange , but in my own country there is been little if any news coverage of that war since the election . Now , perhaps they will say it is well , because there are newer struggles now . On distant islands in the South Atlantic young men are fighting for Britain . And , yes , voices have been raised protesting their sacrifice for lumps of rock and earth so far away . But those young men are not fighting for mere real estate . They fight for a cause for the belief that armed aggression must not be allowed to succeed , and the people must participate in the decisions of government the decisions of government under the rule of law . If there had been firmer support for that principle some 45 years ago , perhaps our generation would not have suffered the bloodletting of World War II . In the Middle East now the guns sound once more , this time in Lebanon , a country that for too long has had to endure the tragedy of civil war , terrorism , and foreign intervention and occupation . The fighting in Lebanon on the part of all parties must stop , and Israel should bring its forces home . But this is not enough . We must all work to stamp out the scourge of terrorism that in the Middle East makes war an ever present threat . But beyond the troublespots lies a deeper , more positive pattern . Around the world today , the democratic revolution is gathering new strength . In India a critical test has been passed with the peaceful change of governing political parties . In Africa , Nigeria is moving into remarkable and unmistakable ways to build and strengthen its democratic institutions . In the Caribbean and Central America , 16 of 24 countries have freely elected governments . And in the United Nations , 8 of the 10 developing nations which have joined that body in the past 5 years are democracies . In the Communist world as well , man s instinctive desire for freedom and self determination surfaces again and again . To be sure , there are grim reminders of how brutally the police state attempts to snuff out this quest for self rule 1953 in East Germany , 1956 in Hungary , 1968 in Czechoslovakia , 1981 in Poland . But the struggle continues in Poland . And we know that there are even those who strive and suffer for freedom within the confines of the Soviet Union itself . How we conduct ourselves here in the Western democracies will determine whether this trend continues . No , democracy is not a fragile flower . Still it needs cultivating . If the rest of this century is to witness the gradual growth of freedom and democratic ideals , we must take actions to assist the campaign for democracy . Some argue that we should encourage democratic change in right wing dictatorships , but not in Communist regimes . Well , to accept this preposterous notion as some well meaning people have is to invite the argument that once countries achieve a nuclear capability , they should be allowed an undisturbed reign of terror over their own citizens . We reject this course . As for the Soviet view , Chairman Brezhnev repeatedly has stressed that the competition of ideas and systems must continue and that this is entirely consistent with relaxation of tensions and peace . Well , we ask only that these systems begin by living up to their own constitutions , abiding by their own laws , and complying with the international obligations they have undertaken . We ask only for a process , a direction , a basic code of decency , not for an instant transformation . We cannot ignore the fact that even without our encouragement there has been and will continue to be repeated explosions against repression and dictatorships . The Soviet Union itself is not immune to this reality . Any system is inherently unstable that has no peaceful means to legitimize its leaders . In such cases , the very repressiveness of the state ultimately drives people to resist it , if necessary , by force . While we must be cautious about forcing the pace of change , we must not hesitate to declare our ultimate objectives and to take concrete actions to move toward them . We must be staunch in our conviction that freedom is not the sole prerogative of a lucky few , but the inalienable and universal right of all human beings . So states the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights , which , among other things , guarantees free elections . The objective I propose is quite simple to state to foster the infrastructure of democracy , the system of a free press , unions , political parties , universities , which allows a people to choose their own way to develop their own culture , to reconcile their own differences through peaceful means . This is not cultural imperialism , it is providing the means for genuine self determination and protection for diversity . Democracy already flourishes in countries with very different cultures and historical experiences . It would be cultural condescension , or worse , to say that any people prefer dictatorship to democracy . Who would voluntarily choose not to have the right to vote , decide to purchase government propaganda handouts instead of independent newspapers , prefer government to worker controlled unions , opt for land to be owned by the state instead of those who till it , want government repression of religious liberty , a single political party instead of a free choice , a rigid cultural orthodoxy instead of democratic tolerance and diversity Since 1917 the Soviet Union has given covert political training and assistance to Marxist Leninists in many countries . Of course , it also has promoted the use of violence and subversion by these same forces . Over the past several decades , West European and other Social Democrats , Christian Democrats , and leaders have offered open assistance to fraternal , political , and social institutions to bring about peaceful and democratic progress . Appropriately , for a vigorous new democracy , the Federal Republic of Germany s political foundations have become a major force in this effort . We in America now intend to take additional steps , as many of our allies have already done , toward realizing this same goal . The chairmen and other leaders of the national Republican and Democratic Party organizations are initiating a study with the bipartisan American political foundation to determine how the United States can best contribute as a nation to the global campaign for democracy now gathering force . They will have the cooperation of congressional leaders of both parties , along with representatives of business , labor , and other major institutions in our society . I look forward to receiving their recommendations and to working with these institutions and the Congress in the common task of strengthening democracy throughout the world . It is time that we committed ourselves as a nation in both the public and private sectors to assisting democratic development . We plan to consult with leaders of other nations as well . There is a proposal before the Council of Europe to invite parliamentarians from democratic countries to a meeting next year in Strasbourg . That prestigious gathering could consider ways to help democratic political movements . This November in Washington there will take place an international meeting on free elections . And next spring there will be a conference of world authorities on constitutionalism and self goverment hosted by the Chief Justice of the United States . Authorities from a number of developing and developed countries judges , philosophers , and politicians with practical experience have agreed to explore how to turn principle into practice and further the rule of law . At the same time , we invite the Soviet Union to consider with us how the competition of ideas and values which it is committed to support can be conducted on a peaceful and reciprocal basis . For example , I am prepared to offer President Brezhnev an opportunity to speak to the American people on our television if he will allow me the same opportunity with the Soviet people . We also suggest that panels of our newsmen periodically appear on each other s television to discuss major events . Now , I do not wish to sound overly optimistic , yet the Soviet Union is not immune from the reality of what is going on in the world . It has happened in the past a small ruling elite either mistakenly attempts to ease domestic unrest through greater repression and foreign adventure , or it chooses a wiser course . It begins to allow its people a voice in their own destiny . Even if this latter process is not realized soon , I believe the renewed strength of the democratic movement , complemented by a global campaign for freedom , will strengthen the prospects for arms control and a world at peace . I have discussed on other occasions , including my address on May 9th , the elements of Western policies toward the Soviet Union to safeguard our interests and protect the peace . What I am describing now is a plan and a hope for the long term the march of freedom and democracy which will leave Marxism Leninism on the ash heap of history as it has left other tyrannies which stifle the freedom and muzzle the self expression of the people . And that is why we must continue our efforts to strengthen NATO even as we move forward with our Zero Option initiative in the negotiations on intermediate range forces and our proposal for a one third reduction in strategic ballistic missile warheads . Our military strength is a prerequisite to peace , but let it be clear we maintain this strength in the hope it will never be used , for the ultimate determinant in the struggle that is now going on in the world will not be bombs and rockets , but a test of wills and ideas , a trial of spiritual resolve , the values we hold , the beliefs we cherish , the ideals to which we are dedicated . The British people know that , given strong leadership , time and a little bit of hope , the forces of good ultimately rally and triumph over evil . Here among you is the cradle of self government , the Mother of Parliaments . Here is the enduring greatness of the British contribution to mankind , the great civilized ideas individual liberty , representative government , and the rule of law under God . I have often wondered about the shyness of some of us in the West about standing for these ideals that have done so much to ease the plight of man and the hardships of our imperfect world . This reluctance to use those vast resources at our command reminds me of the elderly lady whose home was bombed in the Blitz . As the rescuers moved about , they found a bottle of brandy she had stored behind the staircase , which was all that was left standing . And since she was barely conscious , one of the workers pulled the cork to give her a taste of it . She came around immediately and said , Here now there now , put it back . That is for emergencies . Well , the emergency is upon us . Let us be shy no longer . Let us go to our strength . Let us offer hope . Let us tell the world that a new age is not only possible but probable . During the dark days of the Second World War , when this island was incandescent with courage , Winston Churchill exclaimed about Britain s adversaries , What kind of a people do they think we are Well , Britain s adversaries found out what extraordinary people the British are . But all the democracies paid a terrible price for allowing the dictators to underestimate us . We dare not make that mistake again . So , let us ask ourselves , What kind of people do we think we are And let us answer , Free people , worthy of freedom and determined not only to remain so but to help others gain their freedom as well . Sir Winston led his people to great victory in war and then lost an election just as the fruits of victory were about to be enjoyed . But he left office honorably , and , as it turned out , temporarily , knowing that the liberty of his people was more important than the fate of any single leader . History recalls his greatness in ways no dictator will ever know . And he left us a message of hope for the future , as timely now as when he first uttered it , as opposition leader in the Commons nearly 27 years ago , when he said , When we look back on all the perils through which we have passed and at the mighty foes that we have laid low and all the dark and deadly designs that we have frustrated , why should we fear for our future We have , he said , come safely through the worst . Well , the task I have set forth will long outlive our own generation . But together , we too have come through the worst . Let us now begin a major effort to secure the best a crusade for freedom that will engage the faith and fortitude of the next generation . For the sake of peace and justice , let us move toward a world in which all people are at last free to determine their own destiny . Thank you .<speech_sep>Thank you all , please be seated . Well , thank you , and welcome to the White House . In a moment I will be sitting at that desk , taking up a pen , and signing the most sweeping overhaul of our tax code in our nation s history . To all of you here today who have worked so long and hard to see this day come , my thanks and the thanks of a nation go out to you . The journey s been long , and many said we had never make it to the end . But as usual the pessimists left one thing out of their calculations the American people . They have not made this the freest country and the mightiest economic force on this planet by shrinking from challenges . They never gave up . And after almost 3 years of commitment and hard work , one headline in the Washington Post told the whole story The Impossible Became the Inevitable , and the dream of America s fair share tax plan became a reality . When I sign this bill into law , America will have the lowest marginal tax rates and the most modern tax code among major industrialized nations , one that encourages risk taking , innovation , and that old American spirit of enterprise . We will be refueling the American growth economy with the kind of incentives that helped create record new businesses and nearly 11 . 7 million jobs in just 46 months . Fair and simpler for most Americans , this is a tax code designed to take us into a future of technological invention and economic achievement , one that will keep America competitive and growing into the 21st century . But for all tax reform s economic benefits , I believe that history will record this moment as something more as the return to the first principles . This country was founded on faith in the individual , not groups or classes , but faith in the resources and bounty of each and every separate human soul . Our Founding Fathers designed a democratic form of government to enlist the individual s energies and fashioned a Bill of Rights to protect its freedoms . And in so doing , they tapped a wellspring of hope and creativity that was to completely transform history . The history of these United States of America is indeed a history of individual achievement . It was their hard work that built our cities and farmed our prairies their genius that continually pushed us beyond the boundaries of existing knowledge , reshaping our world with the steam engine , polio vaccine , and the silicon chip . It was their faith in freedom and love of country that sustained us through trials and hardships and through wars , and it was their courage and selflessness that enabled us to always prevail . But when our Founding Fathers designed this government of , by , and for the people they never imagined what we have come to know as the progressive income tax . When the income tax was first levied in 1913 , the top rate was only 7 percent on people with incomes over 500 , 000 . Now , that is the equivalent of multimillionaires today . But in our lifetime we have seen marginal tax rates skyrocket as high as 90 percent , and not even the poor have been spared . As tax rates escalated , the tax code grew ever more tangled and complex , a haven for special interests and tax manipulators , but an impossible frustration for everybody else . Blatantly unfair , our tax code became a source of bitterness and discouragement for the average taxpayer . It was not too much to call it un American . Meanwhile , the steeply progressive nature of the tax struck at the heart of the economic life of the individual , punishing that special effort and extra hard work that has always been the driving force of our economy . As government s hunger for ever more revenues expanded , families saw tax cuts or taxes , I should say , cut deeper and deeper into their paychecks and taxation fell most cruelly on the poor , making a difficult climb up from poverty even harder . Throughout history , the oppressive hand of government has fallen most heavily on the economic life of the individuals . And more often than not , it is inflation and taxes that have undermined livelihoods and constrained their freedoms . We should not forget that this nation of ours began in a revolt against oppressive taxation . Our Founding Fathers fought not only for our political rights but also to secure the economic freedoms without which these political freedoms are no more than a shadow . In the last 20 years we have witnessed an expansion and strengthening of many of our civil liberties , but our economic liberties have too often been neglected and even abused . We protect the freedom of expression of the author , as we should , but what of the freedom of expression of the entrepreneur , whose pen and paper are capital and profits , whose book may be a new invention or small business What of the creators of our economic life , whose contributions may not only delight the mind but improve the condition of man by feeding the poor with new grains , bringing hope to the sick with new cures , vanishing ignorance with wondrous new information technologies And what about fairness for families It is in our families that America s most important work gets done raising our next generation . But over the last 40 years , as inflation has shrunk the personal exemption , families with children have had to shoulder more and more of the tax burden . With inflation and bracket creep also eroding incomes , many spouses who would rather stay home with their children have been forced to go looking for jobs . And what of America s promise of hope and opportunity , that with hard work even the poorest among us can gain the security and happiness that is the due of all Americans You cannot put a price tag on the American dream . That dream is the heart and soul of America it is the promise that keeps our nation forever good and generous , a model and hope to the world . For all these reasons , this tax bill is less a freedom or a reform , I should say , than a revolution . Millions of working poor will be dropped from the tax rolls altogether , and families will get a long overdue break with lower rates and an almost doubled personal exemption . We are going to make it economical to raise children again . Flatter rates will mean more reward for that extra effort , and vanishing loopholes and a minimum tax will mean that everybody and every corporation pay their fair share . And that is why I am certain that the bill I am signing today is not only an historic overhaul of our tax code and a sweeping victory for fairness , it is also the best antipoverty bill , the best profamily measure , and the best job creation program ever to come out of the Congress of the United States . And now that we have come this far , we cannot , and we will not , allow tax reform to be undone with tax rate hikes . We must restore certainty to our tax code and our economy . And I will oppose with all my might any attempt to raise tax rates on the American people , and I hope that all here will join with me to make permanent the historic progress of tax reform . I think all of us here today know what a Herculean effort it took to get this landmark bill to my desk . That effort did not start here in Washington , but began with the many thinkers who have struggled to return economics to its classical roots to an understanding that ultimately the economy is not made up of aggregates like government spending and consumer demand , but of individual men and women , each striving to provide for his family and better his or her lot in life . But we must also salute those courageous leaders in the Congress who have made this day possible . To Bob Packwood , Dan Rostenkowski , Russell Long , John Duncan , and Majority Leader Bob Dole to Jack Kemp , Bob Kasten , Bill Bradley , and Dick Gephardt , who pioneered with their own versions of tax reform I salute all of you and all the other Members of the Senate and House whose efforts paid off and whose votes finally won the day . And last but not least , the many members of the administration who must often have felt that they were fighting a lonely battle against overwhelming odds particularly my two incomparable Secretaries of the Treasury , Don Regan and Jim Baker and I thank them from the bottom of my heart . I feel like we just played the World Series of tax reform and the American people won .<speech_sep>The President Thank you all very much . Welcome to the White House . This ceremony and the treaty we are signing today are both excellent examples of the rewards of patience . It was over 6 years ago , November 18 , 1981 , that I first proposed what would come to be called the zero option . It was a simple proposal one might say , disarmingly simple . Unlike treaties in the past , it did not simply codify the status quo or a new arms buildup it did not simply talk of controlling an arms race . For the first time in history , the language of arms control was replaced by arms reduction in this case , the complete elimination of an entire class of and Soviet nuclear missiles . Of course , this required a dramatic shift in thinking , and it took conventional wisdom some time to catch up . Reaction , to say the least , was mixed . To some the zero option was impossibly visionary and unrealistic to others merely a propaganda ploy . Well , with patience , determination , and commitment , we have made this impossible vision a reality . General Secretary Gorbachev , I am sure you are familiar with Ivan Krylov s famous tale about the swan , the crawfish , and the pike . It seems that once upon a time these three were trying to move a wagonload together . They hitched and harnessed themselves to the wagon . It was not very heavy , but no matter how hard they worked , the wagon just would not move . You see , the swan was flying upward the crawfish kept crawling backward the pike kept making for the water . The end result was that they got nowhere , and the wagon is still there to this day . Well , strong and fundamental moral differences continue to exist between our nations . But today , on this vital issue , at least , we have seen what can be accomplished when we pull together . The numbers alone demonstrate the value of this agreement . On the Soviet side , over 1 , 500 deployed warheads will be removed , and all ground launched intermediate range missiles , including the SS 20 s , will be destroyed . On our side , our entire complement of Pershing II and ground launched cruise missiles , with some 400 deployed warheads , will all be destroyed . Additional backup missiles on both sides will also be destroyed . But the importance of this treaty transcends numbers . We have listened to the wisdom in an old Russian maxim . And I am sure you are familiar with it , General Secretary , though my pronunciation may give you difficulty . The maxim is Dovorey no provorey trust , but verify . The General Secretary You repeat that at every meeting . The President I like it . This agreement contains the most stringent verification regime in history , including provisions for inspection teams actually residing in each other s territory and several other forms of on site inspection , as well . This treaty protects the interests of America s friends and allies . It also embodies another important principle the need for glasnost , a greater openness in military programs and forces . We can only hope that this history making agreement will not be an end in itself but the beginning of a working relationship that will enable us to tackle the other urgent issues before us strategic offensive nuclear weapons , the balance of conventional forces in Europe , the destructive and tragic regional conflicts that beset so many parts of our globe , and respect for the human and natural rights God has granted to all men . To all here who have worked so hard to make this vision a reality Thank you , and congratulations above all to Ambassadors Glitman and Obukhov . To quote another Russian proverb as you can see , I am becoming quite an expert in Russian proverbs The harvest comes more from sweat than from the dew . So , I am going to propose to General Secretary Gorbachev that we issue one last instruction to you Get some well deserved rest . The General Secretary We are not going to do that . The President Well , now , General Secretary , would you like to say a few words before we sign the treaty The General Secretary President , ladies and gentlemen , comrades , succeeding generations will hand down their verdict on the importance of the event which we are about to witness . But I will venture to say that what we are going to do , the signing of the first ever agreement eliminating nuclear weapons , has a universal significance for mankind , both from the standpoint of world politics and from the standpoint of humanism . For everyone , and above all , for our two great powers , the treaty whose text is on this table offers a big chance at last to get onto the road leading away from the threat of catastrophe . It is our duty to take full advantage of that chance and move together toward a nuclear free world , which holds out for our children and grandchildren and for their children and grandchildren the promise of a fulfilling and happy life without fear and without a senseless waste of resources on weapons of destruction . We can he proud of planting this sapling , which may one day grow into a mighty tree of peace . But it is probably still too early to bestow laurels upon each other . As the great American poet and philosopher Ralph Waldo Emerson said The reward of a thing well done is to have done it . So , let us reward ourselves by getting down to business . We have covered a 7 year long road , replete with intense work and debate . One last step towards this table , and the treaty will be signed . May December 8 , 1987 , become a date that will be inscribed in the history books , a date that will mark the watershed separating the era of a mounting risk of nuclear war from the era of a demilitarization of human life .<speech_sep>Good evening . At Christmas time , every home takes on a special beauty , a special warmth , and that is certainly true of the White House , where so many famous Americans have spent their Christmases over the years . This fine old home , the people s house , has seen so much , been so much a part of all our lives and history . It is been humbling and inspiring for Nancy and me to be spending our first Christmas in this place . We have lived here as your tenants for almost a year now , and what a year it is been . As a people we have been through quite a lot moments of joy , of tragedy , and of real achievement moments that I believe have brought us all closer together . Chesterton once said that the world would never starve for wonders , but only for the want of wonder . At this special time of year , we all renew our sense of wonder in recalling the story of the first Christmas in Bethlehem , nearly 2 , 000 year ago . Some celebrate Christmas as the birthday of a great and good philosopher and teacher . Others of us believe in the divinity of the child born in Bethlehem , that he was and is the promised Prince of Peace . Yes , we have questioned why he who could perform miracles chose to come among us as a helpless babe , but maybe that was his first miracle , his first great lesson that we should learn to care for one another . Tonight , in millions of American homes , the glow of the Christmas tree is a reflection of the love Jesus taught us . Like the shepherds and wise men of that first Christmas , we Americans have always tried to follow a higher light , a star , if you will . At lonely campfire vigils along the frontier , in the darkest days of the Great Depression , through war and peace , the twin beacons of faith and freedom have brightened the American sky . At times our footsteps may have faltered , but trusting in God s help , we have never lost our way . Just across the way from the White House stand the two great emblems of the holiday season a Menorah , symbolizing the Jewish festival of Hanukkah , and the National Christmas Tree , a beautiful towering blue spruce from Pennsylvania . Like the National Christmas Tree , our country is a living , growing thing planted in rich American soil . Only our devoted care can bring it to full flower . So , let this holiday season be for us a time of rededication . Even as we rejoice , however , let us remember that for some Americans , this will not be as happy a Christmas as it should be . I know a little of what they feel . I remember one Christmas Eve during the Great Depression , my father opening what he thought was a Christmas greeting . It was a notice that he no longer had a job . Over the past year , we have begun the long , hard work of economic recovery . Our goal is an America in which every citizen who needs and wants a job can get a job . Our program for recovery has only been in place for 12 weeks now , but it is beginning to work . With your help and prayers , it will succeed . We are winning the battle against inflation , runaway government spending and taxation , and that victory will mean more economic growth , more jobs , and more opportunity for all Americans . A few months before he took up residence in this house , one of my predecessors , John Kennedy , tried to sum up the temper of the times with a quote from an author closely tied to Christmas , Charles Dickens . We were living , he said , in the best of times and the worst of times . Well , in some ways that is even more true today . The world is full of peril , as well as promise . Too many of its people , even now , live in the shadow of want and tyranny . As I speak to you tonight , the fate of a proud and ancient nation hangs in the balance . For a thousand years , Christmas has been celebrated in Poland , a land of deep religious faith , but this Christmas brings little joy to the courageous Polish people . They have been betrayed by their own government . The men who rule them and their totalitarian allies fear the very freedom that the Polish people cherish . They have answered the stirrings of liberty with brute force , killings , mass arrests , and the setting up of concentration camps . Lech Walesa and other Solidarity leaders are imprisoned , their fate unknown . Factories , mines , universities , and homes have been assaulted . The Polish government has trampled underfoot solemn commitments to the UN Charter and the Helsinki accords . It has even broken the Gdansk agreement of August 1980 , by which the Polish government recognized the basic right of its people to form free trade unions and to strike . The tragic events now occurring in Poland , almost two years to the day after the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan , have been precipitated by public and secret pressure from the Soviet Union . It is no coincidence that Soviet Marshal Kulikov , chief of the Warsaw Pact forces , and other senior Red Army officers were in Poland while these outrages were being initiated . And it is no coincidence that the martial law proclamations imposed in December by the Polish government were being printed in the Soviet Union in September . The target of this depression is the Solidarity Movement , but in attacking Solidarity its enemies attack an entire people . Ten million of Poland s 36 million citizens are members of Solidarity . Taken together with their families , they account for the overwhelming majority of the Polish nation . By persecuting Solidarity , the Polish government wages war against its own people . I urge the Polish government and its allies to consider the consequences of their actions . How can they possibly justify using naked force to crush a people who ask for nothing more than the right to lead their own lives in freedom and dignity Brute force may intimidate , but it cannot form the basis of an enduring society , and the ailing Polish economy cannot be rebuilt with terror tactics . Poland needs cooperation between its government and its people , not military oppression . If the Polish government will honor the commitments it has made to human rights in documents like the Gdansk agreement , we in America will gladly do our share to help the shattered Polish economy , just as we helped the countries of Europe after both World Wars . It is ironic that we offered , and Poland expressed interest in accepting , our help after World War IThe Soviet Union intervened then and refused to allow such help to Poland . But if the forces of tyranny in Poland , and those who incite them from without , do not relent , they should prepare themselves for serious consequences . Already , throughout the Free World , citizens have publicly demonstrated their support for the Polish people . Our government , and those of our allies , have expressed moral revulsion at the police state tactics of Poland s oppressors . The Church has also spoken out , in spite of threats and intimidation . But our reaction cannot stop there . I want emphatically to state tonight that if the outrages in Poland do not cease , we cannot and will not conduct business as usual with the perpetrators and those who aid and abet them . Make no mistake , their crime will cost them dearly in their future dealings with America and free peoples everywhere . I do not make this statement lightly or without serious reflection . We have been measured and deliberate in our reaction to the tragic events in Poland . We have not acted in haste , and the steps I will outline tonight and others we may take in the days ahead are firm , just , and reasonable . In order to aid the suffering Polish people during this critical period , we will continue the shipment of food through private humanitarian channels , but only so long as we know that the Polish people themselves receive the food . The neighboring country of Austria has opened her doors to refugees from Poland . I have therefore directed that American assistance , including supplies of basic foodstuffs , be offered to aid the Austrians in providing for these refugees . But to underscore our fundamental opposition to the repressive actions taken by the Polish government against its own people , the administration has suspended all government sponsored shipments of agricultural and dairy products to the Polish government . This suspension will remain in force until absolute assurances are received that distribution of these products is monitored and guaranteed by independent agencies . We must be sure that every bit of food provided by America goes to the Polish people , not to their oppressors . The United States is taking immediate action to suspend major elements of our economic relationships with the Polish government . We have halted the renewal of the Export Import Bank s line of export credit insurance to the Polish government . We will suspend Polish civil aviation privileges in the United States . We are suspending the right of Poland s fishing fleet to operate in American waters . And we are proposing to our allies the further restriction of high technology exports to Poland . These actions are not directed against the Polish people . They are a warning to the government of Poland that free men cannot and will not stand idly by in the face of brutal repression . To underscore this point , I have written a letter to General Jaruzelski , head of the Polish government . In it , I outlined the steps we are taking and warned of the serious consequences if the Polish government continues to use violence against its populace . I have urged him to free those in arbitrary detention , to lift martial law , and to restore the internationally recognized rights of the Polish people to free speech and association . The Soviet Union , through its threats and pressures , deserves a major share of blame for the developments in Poland . So , I have also sent a letter to President Brezhnev urging him to permit the restoration of basic human rights in Poland provided for in the Helsinki Final Act . In it , I informed him that if this repression continues , the United States will have no choice but to take further concrete political and economic measures affecting our relationship . When 19th century Polish patriots rose against foreign oppressors , their rallying cry was , For our freedom and yours . Well , that motto still rings true in our time . There is a spirit of solidarity abroad in the world tonight that no physical force can crush . It crosses national boundaries and enters into the hearts of men and women everywhere . In factories , farms , and schools , in cities and towns around the globe , we the people of the Free World stand as one with our Polish brothers and sisters . Their cause is ours , and our prayers and hopes go out to them this Christmas . Yesterday , I met in this very room with Romuald Spasowski , the distinguished former Polish Ambassador who has sought asylum in our country in protest of the suppression of his native land . He told me that one of the ways the Polish people have demonstrated their solidarity in the face of martial law is by placing lighted candles in their windows to show that the light of liberty still glows in their hearts . Ambassador Spasowski requested that on Christmas Eve a lighted candle will burn in the White House window as a small but certain beacon of our solidarity with the Polish people . I urge all of you to do the same tomorrow night , on Christmas Eve , as a personal statement of your commitment to the steps we are taking to support the brave people of Poland in their time of troubles . Once , earlier in this century , an evil influence threatened that the lights were going out all over the world . Let the light of millions of candles in American homes give notice that the light of freedom is not going to be extinguished . We are blessed with a freedom and abundance denied to so many . Let those candles remind us that these blessings bring with them a solid obligation , an obligation to the God who guides us , an obligation to the heritage of liberty and dignity handed down to us by our forefathers and an obligation to the children of the world , whose future will be shaped by the way we live our lives today . Christmas means so much because of one special child . But Christmas also reminds us that all children are special , that they are gifts from God , gifts beyond price that mean more than any presents money can buy . In their love and laughter , in our hopes for their future lies the true meaning of Christmas . So , in a spirit of gratitude for what we have been able to achieve together over the past year and looking forward to all that we hope to achieve together in the years ahead , Nancy and I want to wish you all the best of holiday seasons . As Charles Dickens , whom I quoted a few moments ago , said so well in A Christmas Carol , God bless us , every one . Good night .<speech_sep>My fellow Americans There is an old saying we have all heard a thousand times about the weather and how everyone talks about it but no one does anything about it . Well , many of you must be feeling that way about the present state of our economy . Certainly there is a lot of talk about it , but I want you to know we are doing something about it . And the reason I wanted to talk to you is because you can help us do something about it . Believe me , if some of you are confused , I can understand why . For some time , ever since we started planning the 1983 budget for the fiscal year beginning this coming October 1st , there is been a steady drumbeat of reports on what we are supposed to be doing . I know you have read and heard on the news a variety of statements attributed to various authoritative government sources who prefer not to have their names used . Well , you know my name , and I think I am an authoritative source on this since I am right in the middle of what is going on here . So , I had like to set the record straight on a few of the things that you might have heard lately . I am sure you have heard that we are proposing the largest single tax increase in history . The truth is , we are proposing nothing of the kind . And then there is the one that our economic recovery program has failed , so I have abandoned it and turned to increasing taxes instead of trying to reduce Federal spending . Well , do not you believe that one either . Yes , there is a tax bill before the Congress tied to a program of further cuts in spending . It is not , however , the greatest single tax increase in history . Possibly it could be called the greatest tax reform in history , but it absolutely does not represent any reversal of policy or philosophy on the part of this administration or this President . Now , you may have heard that some special interests oppose this bill . And that is right some do . As a matter of fact , some in the Congress of my own party object to this bill and strongly . I am told by many that this bill is not politically popular , and it may not be . Why then do I support it I support it because it is right for America . I support it because it is fair . I support it because it will , when combined with our cuts in government spending , reduce interest rates and put more Americans back to work again . Now , you will recall that when our administration came into office a year ago last January , we announced a plan for economic recovery . Recovery from what From a 1980 recession that saw inflation in double digit figures for the second year in a row . It was 12 . 4 percent when we arrived . Interest rates had gone into outer space . They were at the highest they had been in a hundred years with a prime rate that hit 21 percent . There were almost 8 million Americans out of work . And in several hard hit industrial States , there already were pockets of unemployment reaching figures of 15 , 18 , and even 20 percent . I went to those areas I know . The cost of government was increasing at a rate of 17 percent a year . There was little we could do about the budget already in place . But we could do something about the one that had been proposed for the fiscal year beginning in October of our first year . I had campaigned on the belief that government costs should be reduced and that the percentage of the people s earnings taken by government in taxes should also be reduced . I also said that one area of government spending could not be reduced , but must instead be increased . That was the spending necessary to restore our nation s defenses , which had been allowed to deteriorate to a dangerous degree in the preceding 4 years . Interest rates continued high as the months went by , and unemployment increased , particularly in the automobile industry and housing construction . Few could or would afford the high interest rates for home mortgages or installment buying of an automobile . Meantime , we were putting our economic recovery program in place . It was not easy . We did not get all the cuts we wanted . And we got some tax measures we did not want . But we were charting a complete turnaround in government policy , and we did get the major part of what we proposed . The Congress mandated spending cuts of 130 billion over 3 years and adopted the biggest tax cut in history . Now , this , too , was to be implemented over a 3 year period . It began with a 5 percent cut in the personal income tax beginning October 1st , 1981 , then a 10 percent cut this last July , and another scheduled for July 1st , 1983 . These will be followed by indexing of the tax brackets so workers getting cost of living pay raises will not be moved up into higher brackets . We have to realize inflation itself is a tax . Government profits by inflation , but indexing will put a stop to that . There were tax cuts for business and industry to help provide capital for modernization of plant and equipment , changes in the estate tax , capital gains tax , and the marriage penalty tax . Some who supported us on the spending cuts were fearful about cutting taxes in view of the continuing budget deficits . We felt that tax cuts had to be a part of our plan in order to provide incentive for individuals and for business to increase productivity and thus create jobs for the unemployed . Now , it is only been ten months since the first phase of our program went into effect . As I said earlier , there are those who say it is been tried and it failed . Well , as Al Smith used to say , Let us look at the record . Start with interest rates , the basic cause of the present recession The prime rate was , as I said , 21 1 2 percent . Well , last week it was 14 1 2 percent . And as of today , three major banks have lowered it to 14 percent . Last week 90 day Treasury bills were paying less than 9 percent interest . One year ago they were paying 15 1 2 . That double digit inflation , 12 . 4 percent , has been cut in half for the last 6 months . Real earnings are at last increasing for the first time in quite a long time . Personal savings , which trended downward throughout the last decade , are increasing . This means more money in the pool of investment capital . This will help further reduce interest rates . All of this in only 10 months hardly looks like a program that failed to me . Oh , yes , I failed to mention that in the quarter just ended there was an increase in economic growth the first such increase in a long time . Our biggest problem the last one to be solved in every recession is unemployment . I understand how tough it is for those who are waiting for the jobs that come with recovery . We can have no rest until our neighbors , our fellow citizens who want to work , are able once again to find jobs . Again , let me say , the main obstacle to their doing so is continued high interest rates . Those rates should be lower now than they are , with the success we have had in reducing inflation . But part of the problem is psychological a pessimism in the money markets that we will not stay the course and continue lowering the cost of government . The projected increase in budget deficits has added to that pessimism and fear . And this brings us back to that so called greatest tax increase in history and the budget proposals now before the Congress . When I submitted the 1983 budget to the Congress in February , it contained very significant spending cuts on top of those we obtained last year . This time , however , we could not get the support we had last year . Some who had not been happy about the tax cuts then were now insisting we must have additional tax revenues . In fact , they wanted to cancel the reduction scheduled for next July and cancel the indexing of tax brackets . Others proposed tax increases mounting to about 150 billion over a 3 year period . On top of this , there was resistance to the spending reductions we asked for , and even attempts to eliminate some of last year s cuts so as to actually increase spending . For many months now we have been working to get a compromise budget that would further reduce spending and thus reduce the deficits . We also have stood firm on retaining the tax cuts already in place , because , as I said , they are essential to restoring the economy . We did , however , agree to limited revenue increases so long as they did not harm the incentive features of our economic recovery program . We ourselves , last year , had called attention to the possibility of better compliance with the tax laws collecting taxes legitimately owed but which were not being paid . Well , weeks and weeks of negotiations resulted in a congressional budget resolution combining revenue increases and further spending reductions . Revenues would increase over a 3 year period by about 99 billion , and outlays in that same period would be reduced by 280 billion . Now , as you can see , that figures out to about a 3 to 1 ratio 3 less in spending outlays for each 1 of increased revenue . This compromise adds up to a total over three years of a 380 billion reduction in the budget deficits . And remember , our original tax reduction remains in place , which means your taxes will still be cut 335 billion in these next three years , even with the passage of this present tax bill . Now , let me take that 99 billion tax program apart , and you decide whether it is the biggest tax increase in history . Of the entire 99 billion , 32 billion is collection of tax presently owed under the present laws and which is not being paid . Now , to all of you who are paying your tax , simple fairness says we should collect from those who are freeloading . Roughly 48 billion of the 99 billion represents closing off special interest loopholes which have resulted in unintended tax advantages for some not all taxpayers , some who are financially well able to pay their share . Now , this is also a matter of simple fairness . So , more than 80 percent of the tax bill is not new tax at all , but is better collecting and correcting of flaws in the system . Now , this leaves 19 billion over three years of actual new taxes , which is far outweighed by the tax cuts which will benefit individuals . There is an excise tax on cigarettes , another on telephones . Well , for people who smoke a pack a day , that tax will mean an increase of only 2 . 40 a month . The telephone tax increase is only about 54 cents a month for the average household . Right now the tax reduction that we passed last year is saving the average family about 400 per year . Next year , even after this new tax bill is passed , the savings will almost double they will go to 788 . And here s what the totals look like . The new tax reform will raise in 3 years about , as I say , 99 billion . In the same 3 years , as I said a moment ago , our tax cut program even after this increase will save you 335 billion . Within the new bill there has , of course , been disagreement over some of the specific provisions . For example , there is considerable confusion over the proposal to have withholding of tax due on interest and dividends , just as it is withheld now on your wages and salaries . Many senior citizens have been led to believe this is a new tax added on top of the present income tax . Well , there is no truth whatsoever to that . We found that while the overwhelming majority of Americans faithfully report income from interest and dividends and pay taxes on it , some do not . It is one of the significant areas of noncompliance and is costing the government about 9 billion a year . In the case of those over age 65 , withholding will only apply to those with incomes of 14 , 450 and up per individual and 24 , 214 for couples filing a joint return . Low income citizens below 65 will be exempt if their income is less than about 8 , 000 for an individual or 15 , 300 for those filing joint returns . And there will be an exemption for all interest payments of 150 or less . The only people whose taxes will be increased by this withholding are those who presently are evading their fair share of the tax burden . Once again , we are striving to see that all taxpayers are treated fairly . Now , this withholding will go into effect next July , not this January 1st , as was earlier reported . Back during the campaign n September 9th , 1980 , to be exact I said my goal was to reduce by 1985 the share of the gross national product taken by the government in taxes , reduce it to 20 . 5 percent . If we had done nothing , it would have risen to almost 25 percent . But even after passage of this bill , the Federal Government in 1985 will only be taking 19 . 6 percent of the gross national product . Make no mistake about it , this whole package is a compromise . I had to swallow hard to agree to any revenue increase . But there are two sides to a compromise . Those who supported the increased revenues swallowed hard to accept 280 billion in outlay cuts . Others have accepted specific provisions with regard to taxes or spending cuts which they opposed . There is a provision in the bill for extended unemployment payments in States particularly hard hit by unemployment . If this provision is not enacted , 2 million unemployed people will use up their benefits by the end of March . I repeat Much of this bill will make our tax system more fair for every American , especially those in lower income brackets . I am still dedicated to reducing the level of spending until it is within our income , and I still want to see the base of the economy broadened so that the individual s tax burden can be further reduced . Over the years , growth in government and deficit spending have been built into our system . Now , it had be nice if we could just cut that out of our system with a single , sharp slice . That , however , cannot be done without bringing great hardship down on many of our less fortunate . neighbors who are not in a position to provide for themselves . And none of us wants that . Our effort to restore fiscal integrity and common sense to the Federal establishment is not limited to the budget cuts and tax policy . Vice President Bush heads up a task force that is been reviewing excessive regulations . Already enough unnecessary and duplicative regulations have been eliminated or revised to save an estimated 6 billion every year . Our Inspectors General have been mobilized into a task force aimed at ferreting out waste and fraud . They have conducted tens of thousands of audits , secured thousands of indictments resulting in many convictions . In the first 6 months of fiscal 1982 alone , they found 5 . 8 billion of savings and improved use of funds . Computer cross checking has uncovered thousands of government checks still going to people who have been dead for several years . Task forces from the private sector are engaged in a study of the management structure of government . What they have learned already indicates a great potential for savings by simply bringing government procedures up to ordinary modern business standards . Our private sector initiatives force , under William Verity , has uncovered hundreds of community and statewide projects performing services voluntarily that once were thought to be the province of government . Some of the most innovative have to do with job training and placement , particularly for young people . What we need now is an end to the bickering here in the Capital . We need the bipartisan , comprehensive package of revenue increases and spending cuts now before the Congress . We need it to be passed . We are not proposing a quick fix , an artificial stimulant to the economy , such as we have seen in the several recessions in recent years . The present recession is bottoming out without resorting to quick fixes . Now , there will not be a sudden boom or upsurge . But slowly and surely , we will have a sound and lasting recovery based on solid values and increased productivity and an end to deficit spending . It may not be easy , but it is the best way , the only way to real and lasting prosperity for all our people . Think of it , we have only had one balanced budget in the last 20 years . Let us look forward to the day when we begin making payments to reduce the national debt , instead of turning it all over to our children . You helped us start this economic recovery program last year when you told your representatives you wanted it . You can help again whether you are a Republican , a Democrat , or an Independent by letting them know that you want it continued , letting them know that you understand that this legislation is a price worth paying for lower interest rates , economic recovery , and more jobs . The single most important question facing us tonight is , do we reduce deficits and interest rates by raising revenue from those who are not now paying their fair share Or do we accept bigger budget deficits , higher interest rates , and higher unemployment simply because we disagree on certain features of a legislative package which offers hope for millions of Americans at home , on the farm , and in the workplace Do we tell these Americans to give up hope , that their ship of state lies dead in the water because those entrusted with manning that ship cannot agree on which sail to raise We are within sight of the safe port of economic recovery . Do we make port or go aground on the shoals of selfishness , partisanship , and just plain bullheadedness The measure the Congress is about to vote on , while not perfect in the eyes of any one of us , will bring us closer to the goal of a balanced budget , restored industrial power , and employment for all who want to work . Together we can reach that goal . Thank you . God bless you .<speech_sep>Speaker , President , distinguished Members of the Congress , honored guests , and fellow citizens I come before you to report on the state of our Union , and I am pleased to report that after four years of united effort , the American people have brought forth a nation renewed , stronger , freer , and more secure than before . Four years ago we began to change , forever I hope , our assumptions about government and its place in our lives . Out of that change has come great and robust growth in our confidence , our economy , and our role in the world . Tonight America is stronger because of the values that we hold dear . We believe faith and freedom must be our guiding stars , for they show us truth , they make us brave , give us hope , and leave us wiser than we were . Our progress began not in Washington , Dbut in the hearts of our families , communities , workplaces , and voluntary groups which , together , are unleashing the invincible spirit of one great nation under God . Four years ago we said we would invigorate our economy by giving people greater freedom and incentives to take risks and letting them keep more of what they earned . We did what we promised , and a great industrial giant is reborn . Tonight we can take pride in 25 straight months of economic growth , the strongest in 34 years a 3 year inflation average of 3 . 9 percent , the lowest in 17 years and 7 . 3 million new jobs in 2 years , with more of our citizens working than ever before . New freedom in our lives has planted the rich seeds for future success For an America of wisdom that honors the family , knowing that if the family goes , so goes our civilization For an America of vision that sees tomorrow s dreams in the learning and hard work we do today For an America of courage whose service men and women , even as we meet , proudly stand watch on the frontiers of freedom For an America of compassion that opens its heart to those who cry out for help . We have begun well . But it is only a beginning . We are not here to congratulate ourselves on what we have done but to challenge ourselves to finish what has not yet been done . We are here to speak for millions in our inner cities who long for real jobs , safe neighborhoods , and schools that truly teach . We are here to speak for the American farmer , the entrepreneur , and every worker in industries fighting to modernize and compete . And , yes , we are here to stand , and proudly so , for all who struggle to break free from totalitarianism , for all who know in their hearts that freedom is the one true path to peace and human happiness . Proverbs tell us , without a vision the people perish . When asked what great principle holds our Union together , Abraham Lincoln said Something in Declaration giving liberty , not alone to the people of this country , but hope to the world for all future time . We honor the giants of our history not by going back but forward to the dreams their vision foresaw . My fellow citizens , this nation is poised for greatness . The time has come to proceed toward a great new challenge a second American Revolution of hope and opportunity a revolution carrying us to new heights of progress by pushing back frontiers of knowledge and space a revolution of spirit that taps the soul of America , enabling us to summon greater strength than we have ever known and a revolution that carries beyond our shores the golden promise of human freedom in a world of peace . Let us begin by challenging our conventional wisdom . There are no constraints on the human mind , no walls around the human spirit , no barriers to our progress except those we ourselves erect . Already , pushing down tax rates has freed our economy to vault forward to record growth . In Europe , they are calling it the American Miracle . Day by day , we are shattering accepted notions of what is possible . When I was growing up , we failed to see how a new thing called radio would transform our marketplace . Well , today , many have not yet seen how advances in technology are transforming our lives . In the late 1950 s workers at the AT and T semiconductor plant in Pennsylvania produced five transistors a day for 7 . 50 apiece . They now produce over a million for less than a penny apiece . New laser techniques could revolutionize heart bypass surgery , cut diagnosis time for viruses linked to cancer from weeks to minutes , reduce hospital costs dramatically , and hold out new promise for saving human lives . Our automobile industry has overhauled assembly lines , increased worker productivity , and is competitive once again . We stand on the threshold of a great ability to produce more , do more , be more . Our economy is not getting older and weaker it is getting younger and stronger . It does not need rest and supervision it needs new challenge , greater freedom . And that word freedom is the key to the second American revolution that we need to bring about . Let us move together with an historic reform of tax simplification for fairness and growth . Last year I asked Treasury Secretary then Regan to develop a plan to simplify the tax code , so all taxpayers would be treated more fairly and personal tax rates could come further down . We have cut tax rates by almost 25 percent , yet the tax system remains unfair and limits our potential for growth . Exclusions and exemptions cause similar incomes to be taxed at different levels . Low income families face steep tax barriers that make hard lives even harder . The Treasury Department has produced an excellent reform plan , whose principles will guide the final proposal that we will ask you to enact . One thing that tax reform will not be is a tax increase in disguise . We will not jeopardize the mortgage interest deduction that families need . We will reduce personal tax rates as low as possible by removing many tax preferences . We will propose a top rate of no more than 35 percent , and possibly lower . And we will propose reducing corporate rates , while maintaining incentives for capital formation . To encourage opportunity and jobs rather than dependency and welfare , we will propose that individuals living at or near the poverty line be totally exempt from Federal income tax . To restore fairness to families , we will propose increasing significantly the personal exemption . And tonight , I am instructing Treasury Secretary James Baker I have to get used to saying that to begin working with congressional authors and committees for bipartisan legislation conforming to these principles . We will call upon the American people for support and upon every man and woman in this Chamber . Together , we can pass , this year , a tax bill for fairness , simplicity , and growth , making this economy the engine of our dreams and America the investment capital of the world . So let us begin . Tax simplification will be a giant step toward unleashing the tremendous pent up power of our economy . But a second American revolution must carry the promise of opportunity for all . It is time to liberate the spirit of enterprise in the most distressed areas of our country . This government will meet its responsibility to help those in need . But policies that increase dependency , break up families , and destroy self respect are not progressive they are reactionary . Despite our strides in civil rights , blacks , Hispanics , and all minorities will not have full and equal power until they have full economic power . We have repeatedly sought passage of enterprise zones to help those in the abandoned corners of our land find jobs , learn skills , and build better lives . This legislation is supported by a majority of you . Speaker , I know we agree that there must be no forgotten Americans . Let us place new dreams in a million hearts and create a new generation of entrepreneurs by passing enterprise zones this year . And , Tip , you could make that a birthday present . Nor must we lose the chance to pass our youth employment opportunity wage proposal . We can help teenagers , who have the highest unemployment rate , find summer jobs , so they can know the pride of work and have confidence in their futures . We will continue to support the Job Training Partnership Act , which has a nearly two thirds job placement rate . Credits in education and health care vouchers will help working families shop for services that they need . Our administration is already encouraging certain low income public housing residents to own and manage their own dwellings . It is time that all public housing residents have that opportunity of ownership . The Federal Government can help create a new atmosphere of freedom . But States and localities , many of which enjoy surpluses from the recovery , must not permit their tax and regulatory policies to stand as barriers to growth . Let us resolve that we will stop spreading dependency and start spreading opportunity that we will stop spreading bondage and start spreading freedom . There are some who say that growth initiatives must await final action on deficit reductions . Well , the best way to reduce deficits is through economic growth . More businesses will be started , more investments made , more jobs created , and more people will be on payrolls paying taxes . The best way to reduce government spending is to reduce the need for spending by increasing prosperity . Each added percentage point per year of real GNP growth will lead to cumulative reduction in deficits of nearly 200 billion over 5 years . To move steadily toward a balanced budget , we must also lighten government s claim on our total economy . We will not do this by raising taxes . We must make sure that our economy grows faster than the growth in spending by the Federal Government . In our fiscal year 1986 budget , overall government program spending will be frozen at the current level . It must not be one dime higher than fiscal year 1985 , and three points are key . First , the social safety net for the elderly , the needy , the disabled , and unemployed will be left intact . Growth of our major health care programs , Medicare and Medicaid , will be slowed , but protections for the elderly and needy will be preserved . Second , we must not relax our efforts to restore military strength just as we near our goal of a fully equipped , trained , and ready professional corps . National security is government s first responsibility so in past years defense spending took about half the Federal budget . Today it takes less than a third . We have already reduced our planned defense expenditures by nearly a hundred billion dollars over the past 4 years and reduced projected spending again this year . You know , we only have a military industrial complex until a time of danger , and then it becomes the arsenal of democracy . Spending for defense is investing in things that are priceless peace and freedom . Third , we must reduce or eliminate costly government subsidies . For example , deregulation of the airline industry has led to cheaper airfares , but on Amtrak taxpayers pay about 35 per passenger every time an Amtrak train leaves the station , It is time we ended this huge Federal subsidy . Our farm program costs have quadrupled in recent years . Yet I know from visiting farmers , many in great financial distress , that we need an orderly transition to a market oriented farm economy . We can help farmers best not by expanding Federal payments but by making fundamental reforms , keeping interest rates heading down , and knocking down foreign trade barriers to American farm exports . We are moving ahead with Grace commission reforms to eliminate waste and improve government s management practices . In the long run , we must protect the taxpayers from government . And I ask again that you pass , as 32 States have now called for , an amendment mandating the Federal Government spend no more than it takes in . And I ask for the authority , used responsibly by 43 Governors , to veto individual items in appropriation bills . Senator Mattingly has introduced a bill permitting a 2 year trial run of the line item veto . I hope you will pass and send that legislation to my desk . Nearly 50 years of government living beyond its means has brought us to a time of reckoning . Ours is but a moment in history . But one moment of courage , idealism , and bipartisan unity can change American history forever . Sound monetary policy is key to long running economic strength and stability . We will continue to cooperate with the Federal Reserve Board , seeking a steady policy that ensures price stability without keeping interest rates artificially high or needlessly holding down growth . Reducing unneeded red tape and regulations , and deregulating the energy , transportation , and financial industries have unleashed new competition , giving consumers more choices , better services , and lower prices . In just one set of grant programs we have reduced 905 pages of regulations to 31 . We seek to fully deregulate natural gas to bring on new supplies and bring us closer to energy independence . Consistent with safety standards , we will continue removing restraints on the bus and railroad industries , we will soon end up legislation or send up legislation , I should say to return Conrail to the private sector where it belongs , and we will support further deregulation of the trucking industry . Every dollar the Federal Government does not take from us , every decision it does not make for us will make our economy stronger , our lives more abundant , our future more free . Our second American revolution will push on to new possibilities not only on Earth but in the next frontier of space . Despite budget restraints , we will seek record funding for research and development . We have seen the success of the space shuttle . Now we are going to develop a permanently manned space station and new opportunities for free enterprise , because in the next decade Americans and our friends around the world will be living and working together in space . In the zero gravity of space , we could manufacture in 30 days lifesaving medicines it would take 30 years to make on Earth . We can make crystals of exceptional purity to produce super computers , creating jobs , technologies , and medical breakthroughs beyond anything we ever dreamed possible . As we do all this , we will continue to protect our natural resources . We will seek reauthorization and expanded funding for the Superfund program to continue cleaning up hazardous waste sites which threaten human health and the environment . Now , there is another great heritage to speak of this evening . Of all the changes that have swept America the past 4 years , none brings greater promise than our rediscovery of the values of faith , freedom , family , work , and neighborhood . We see signs of renewal in increased attendance in places of worship renewed optimism and faith in our future love of country rediscovered by our young , who are leading the way . We have rediscovered that work is good in and of itself , that it ennobles us to create and contribute no matter how seemingly humble our jobs . We have seen a powerful new current from an old and honorable tradition American generosity . From thousands answering Peace Corps appeals to help boost food production in Africa , to millions volunteering time , corporations adopting schools , and communities pulling together to help the neediest among us at home , we have refound our values . Private sector initiatives are crucial to our future . I thank the Congress for passing equal access legislation giving religious groups the same right to use classrooms after school that other groups enjoy . But no citizen need tremble , nor the world shudder , if a child stands in a classroom and breathes a prayer . We ask you again , give children back a right they had for a century and a half or more in this country . The question of abortion grips our nation . Abortion is either the taking of a human life or it is not . And if it is and medical technology is increasingly showing it is it must be stopped . It is a terrible irony that while some turn to abortion , so many others who cannot become parents cry out for children to adopt . We have room for these children . We can fill the cradles of those who want a child to love . And tonight I ask you in the Congress to move this year on legislation to protect the unborn . In the area of education , we are returning to excellence , and again , the heroes are our people , not government . We are stressing basics of discipline , rigorous testing , and homework , while helping children become computer smart as well . For 20 years scholastic aptitude test scores of our high school students went down , but now they have gone up 2 of the last 3 years . We must go forward in our commitment to the new basics , giving parents greater authority and making sure good teachers are rewarded for hard work and achievement through merit pay . Of all the changes in the past 20 years , none has more threatened our sense of national well being than the explosion of violent crime . One does not have to be attacked to be a victim . The woman who must run to her car after shopping at night is a victim . The couple draping their door with locks and chains are victims as is the tired , decent cleaning woman who cannot ride a subway home without being afraid . We do not seek to violate the rights of defendants . But should not we feel more compassion for the victims of crime than for those who commit crime For the first time in 20 years , the crime index has fallen 2 years in a row . We have convicted over 7 , 400 drug offenders and put them , as well as leaders of organized crime , behind bars in record numbers . But we must do more . I urge the House to follow the Senate and enact proposals permitting use of all reliable evidence that police officers acquire in good faith . These proposals would also reform the habeas corpus laws and allow , in keeping with the will of the overwhelming majority of Americans , the use of the death penalty where necessary . There can be no economic revival in ghettos when the most violent among us are allowed to roam free . It is time we restored domestic tranquility . And we mean to do just that . Just as we are positioned as never before to secure justice in our economy , we are poised as never before to create a safer , freer , more peaceful world . Our alliances are stronger than ever . Our economy is stronger than ever . We have resumed our historic role as a leader of the free world . And all of these together are a great force for peace . Since 1981 we have been committed to seeking fair and verifiable arms agreements that would lower the risk of war and reduce the size of nuclear arsenals . Now our determination to maintain a strong defense has influenced the Soviet Union to return to the bargaining table . Our negotiators must be able to go to that table with the united support of the American people . All of us have no greater dream than to see the day when nuclear weapons are banned from this Earth forever . Each Member of the Congress has a role to play in modernizing our defenses , thus supporting our chances for a meaningful arms agreement . Your vote this spring on the Peacekeeper missile will be a critical test of our resolve to maintain the strength we need and move toward mutual and verifiable arms reductions . For the past 20 years we have believed that no war will be launched as long as each side knows it can retaliate with a deadly counterstrike . Well , I believe there is a better way of eliminating the threat of nuclear war . It is a Strategic Defense Initiative aimed ultimately at finding a nonnuclear defense against ballistic missiles . It is the most hopeful possibility of the nuclear age . But it is not very well understood . Some say it will bring war to the heavens , but its purpose is to deter war in the heavens and on Earth . Now , some say the research would be expensive . Perhaps , but it could save millions of lives , indeed humanity itself . And some say if we build such a system , the Soviets will build a defense system of their own . Well , they already have strategic defenses that surpass ours a civil defense system , where we have almost none and a research program covering roughly the same areas of technology that we are now exploring . And finally some say the research will take a long time . Well , the answer to that is Let us get started . Harry Truman once said that , ultimately , our security and the world s hopes for peace and human progress lie not in measures of defense or in the control of weapons , but in the growth and expansion of freedom and self government . And tonight , we declare anew to our fellow citizens of the world Freedom is not the sole prerogative of a chosen few it is the universal right of all God s children . Look to where peace and prosperity flourish today . It is in homes that freedom built . Victories against poverty are greatest and peace most secure where people live by laws that ensure free press , free speech , and freedom to worship , vote , and create wealth . Our mission is to nourish and defend freedom and democracy , and to communicate these ideals everywhere we can . America s economic success is freedom s success it can be repeated a hundred times in a hundred different nations . Many countries in east Asia and the Pacific have few resources other than the enterprise of their own people . But through low tax rates and free markets they have soared ahead of centralized economies . And now China is opening up its economy to meet its needs . We need a stronger and simpler approach to the process of making and implementing trade policy , and we will be studying potential changes in that process in the next few weeks . We have seen the benefits of free trade and lived through the disasters of protectionism . Tonight I ask all our trading partners , developed and developing alike , to join us in a new round of trade negotiations to expand trade and competition and strengthen the global economy and to begin it in this next year . There are more than 3 billion human beings living in Third World countries with an average per capita income of 650 a year . Many are victims of dictatorships that impoverished them with taxation and corruption . Let us ask our allies to join us in a practical program of trade and assistance that fosters economic development through personal incentives to help these people climb from poverty on their own . We cannot play innocents abroad in a world that is not innocent nor can we be passive when freedom is under siege . Without resources , diplomacy cannot succeed . Our security assistance programs help friendly governments defend themselves and give them confidence to work for peace . And I hope that you in the Congress will understand that , dollar for dollar , security assistance contributes as much to global security as our own defense budget . We must stand by all our democratic allies . And we must not break faith with those who are risking their lives on every continent , from Afghanistan to Nicaragua to defy Soviet supported aggression and secure rights which have been ours from birth . The Sandinista dictatorship of Nicaragua , with full Cuban Soviet bloc support , not only persecutes its people , the church , and denies a free press , but arms and provides bases for Communist terrorists attacking neighboring states . Support for freedom fighters is self defense and totally consistent with the OAS and Charters . It is essential that the Congress continue all facets of our assistance to Central America . I want to work with you to support the democratic forces whose struggle is tied to our own security . And tonight , I have spoken of great plans and great dreams . They are dreams we can make come true . Two hundred years of American history should have taught us that nothing is impossible . Ten years ago a young girl left Vietnam with her family , part of the exodus that followed the fall of Saigon . They came to the United States with no possessions and not knowing a word of English . Ten years ago the young girl studied hard , learned English , and finished high school in the top of her class . And this May , May 22d to be exact , is a big date on her calendar . Just 10 years from the time she left Vietnam , she will graduate from the United States Military Academy at West Point . I thought you might like to meet an American hero named Jean Nguyen . Now , there is someone else here tonight , born 79 years ago . She lives in the inner city , where she cares for infants born of mothers who are heroin addicts . The children , born in withdrawal , are sometimes even dropped on her doorstep . She helps them with love . Go to her house some night , and maybe you will see her silhouette against the window as she walks the floor talking softly , soothing a child in her arms Mother Hale of Harlem , and she , too , is an American hero . Jean , Mother Hale , your lives tell us that the oldest American saying is new again Anything is possible in America if we have the faith , the will , and the heart . History is asking us once again to be a force for good in the world . Let us begin in unity , with justice , and love . Thank you , and God bless you .<speech_sep>My fellow Americans The scenes that the whole world witnessed this past weekend were among the most heart rending in the long nightmare of Lebanon s agony . Millions of us have seen pictures of the Palestinian victims of this tragedy . There is little that words can add , but there are actions we can and must take to bring that nightmare to an end . It is not enough for us to view this as some remote event in which we , ourselves , are not involved . For our friends in Lebanon and Israel , for our friends in Europe and elsewhere in the Middle East , and for us as Americans , this tragedy , horrible as it is , reminds us of the absolute imperative of bringing peace to that troubled country and region . By working for peace in the Middle East , we serve the cause of world peace and the future of mankind . For the criminals who did this deed , no punishment is enough to remove the blot of their crime . But for the rest of us , there are things that we can learn and things that we must do . The people of Lebanon must have learned that the cycle of massacre upon massacre must end . Children are not avenged by the murder of other children . Israel must have learned that there is no way it can impose its own solutions on hatreds as deep and bitter as those that produced this tragedy . If it seeks to do so , it will only sink more deeply into the quagmire that looms before it . Those outsiders who have fed the flames of civil war in Lebanon for so many years need to learn that the fire will consume them , too , if it is not put out . And we must all rededicate ourselves to the cause of peace . I reemphasize my call for early progress to solve the Palestinian issue and repeat the proposals which are now even more urgent . For now is not the time for talk alone now is a time for action to act together to restore peace to Beirut , to help a stable government emerge that can restore peace and independence to all of Lebanon , and to bring a just and lasting resolution to the conflict between Israel and its Arab neighbors , one that satisfies the legitimate rights of the Palestinians , who are all too often its victims . Our basic objectives in Lebanon have not changed , for they are the objectives of the Government and the people of Lebanon themselves . First and foremost , we seek the restoration of a strong and stable central government in that country , brought into being by orderly constitutional processes . Lebanon elected a new President 2 short weeks ago , only to see him murdered even before he could assume his office . This week a distressed Lebanon will again be electing a new President . May God grant him safety as well as the wisdom and courage to lead his country into a new and happier era . The international community has an obligation to assist the Government of Lebanon in reasserting authority over all its territory . Foreign forces and armed factions have too long obstructed the legitimate role of the Government of Lebanon s security forces . We must pave the way for withdrawal of foreign forces . The place to begin this task is in Beirut . The Lebanese Government must be permitted to restore internal security in its capital . It cannot do this if foreign forces remain in or near Beirut . With this goal in mind , I have consulted with our French and Italian allies . We have agreed to form a new multinational force , similar to the one which served so well last month , with the mission of enabling the Lebanese Government to resume full sovereignty over its capital , the essential precondition for extending its control over the entire country . The Lebanese Government , with the support of its people , requested this help . For this multinational force to succeed , it is essential that Israel withdraw from Beirut . With the expected cooperation of all parties , the multinational force will return to Beirut for a limited period of time . Its purpose is not to act as a police force , but to make it possible for the lawful authorities of Lebanon to discharge those duties for themselves . Secretary Shultz , on my behalf , has also reiterated our views to the Government of Israel through its Ambassador in Washington . Unless Israel moves quickly and courageously to withdraw , it will find itself ever more deeply involved in problems that are not its own and which it cannot solve . The participation of American forces in Beirut will again be for a limited period . But I have concluded there is no alternative to their returning to Lebanon if that country is to have a chance to stand on its own feet . Peace in Beirut is only a first step . Together with the people of Lebanon , we seek the removal of all foreign military forces from that country . The departure of all foreign forces at the request of the Lebanese authorities has been widely endorsed by Arab as well as other states . Israel and Syria have both indicated that they have no territorial ambitions in Lebanon and are prepared to withdraw . It is now urgent that specific arrangements for withdrawal of all foreign forces be agreed upon . This must happen very soon . The legitimate security concerns of neighboring states , including , particularly , the safety of Israel s northern population , must be provided for . But this is not a difficult task , if the political will is there . The Lebanese people must be allowed to chart their own future . They must rely solely on Lebanese Armed Forces who are willing and able to bring security to their country . They must be allowed to do so , and the sooner the better . Ambassador Draper , who is been in close consultation with the parties concerned in Lebanon , will remain in the area to work for the full implementation of our proposal . Ambassador Habib will join him , will represent me at the inauguration of the new President of Lebanon , and will consult with the leaders in the area . He will return promptly to Washington to report to me . Early in the summer , our government met its responsibility to help resolve a severe crisis and to relieve the Lebanese people of a crushing burden . We succeeded . Recent events have produced new problems , and we must again assume our responsibility . I am especially anxious to end the agony of Lebanon because it is both right and in our national interest . But I am also determined to press ahead on the broader effort to achieve peace between Israel and its Arab neighbors . The events in Beirut of last week have served only to reinforce my conviction that such a peace is desperately needed and that the initiative we undertook on September 1st is the right way to proceed . We will not be discouraged or deterred in our efforts to seek peace in Lebanon and a just and lasting peace throughout the Middle East . All of us must learn the appropriate lessons from this tragedy and assume the responsibilities that it imposes upon us . We owe it to ourselves and to our children . The whole world will be a safer place when this region which has known so much trouble can begin to know peace instead . Both our purpose and our actions are peaceful , and we are taking them in a spirit of international cooperation . So , tonight , I ask for your prayers and your support as our country continues its vital role as a leader for world peace , a role that all of us as Americans can be proud of . Thank you , and God bless you .<speech_sep>Senator Mathias , Chief Justice Burger , Vice President Bush , Speaker O Neill , Senator Dole , reverend clergy , and members of my family and friends and my fellow citizens This day has been made brighter with the presence here of one who , for a time , has been absent . Senator John Stennis , God bless you and welcome back . There is , however , one who is not with us today . Representative Gillis Long of Louisiana left us last night . And I wonder if we could all join in a moment of silent prayer . Amen . There are no words adequate to express my thanks for the great honor that you have bestowed on me . I will do my utmost to be deserving of your trust . This is , as Senator Mathias told us , the 50th time that we , the people , have celebrated this historic occasion . When the first President , George Washington , placed his hand upon the Bible , he stood less than a single day s journey by horseback from raw , untamed wilderness . There were 4 million Americans in a union of 13 States . Today , we are 60 times as many in a union of 50 States . We have lighted the world with our inventions , gone to the aid of mankind wherever in the world there was a cry for help , journeyed to the Moon and safely returned . So much has changed , and yet we stand together as we did two centuries ago . When I took this oath 4 years ago , I did so in a time of economic stress . Voices were raised saying that we had to look to our past for the greatness and glory . But we , the present day Americans , are not given to looking backward . In this blessed land , there is always a better tomorrow . Four years ago , I spoke to you of a New Beginning , and we have accomplished that . But in another sense , our New Beginning is a continuation of that beginning created two centuries ago when , for the first time in history , government , the people said , was not our master , it is our servant its only power that which we the people allow it to have . That system has never failed us , but for a time we failed the system . We asked things of government that government was not equipped to give . We yielded authority to the National Government that properly belonged to States or to local governments or to the people themselves . We allowed taxes and inflation to rob us of our earnings and savings and watched the great industrial machine that had made us the most productive people on Earth slow down and the number of unemployed increase . By 1980 we knew it was time to renew our faith , to strive with all our strength toward the ultimate in individual freedom , consistent with an orderly society . We believed then and now There are no limits to growth and human progress when men and women are free to follow their dreams . And we were right to believe that . Tax rates have been reduced , inflation cut dramatically , and more people are employed than ever before in our history . We are creating a nation once again vibrant , robust , and alive . But there are many mountains yet to climb . We will not rest until every American enjoys the fullness of freedom , dignity , and opportunity as our birthright . It is our birthright as citizens of this great Republic . And if we meet this challenge , these will be years when Americans have restored their confidence and tradition of progress when our values of faith , family , work , and neighborhood were restated for a modern age when our economy was finally freed from government s grip when we made sincere efforts at meaningful arms reductions and by rebuilding our defenses , our economy , and developing new technologies , helped preserve peace in a troubled world when America courageously supported the struggle for individual liberty , self government , and free enterprise throughout the world and turned the tide of history away from totalitarian darkness and into the warm sunlight of human freedom . My fellow citizens , our nation is poised for greatness . We must do what we know is right , and do it with all our might . Let history say of us These were golden years when the American Revolution was reborn , when freedom gained new life , and America reached for her best . Our two party system has solved us served us , I should say , well over the years , but never better than in those times of great challenge when we came together not as Democrats or Republicans , but as Americans united in a common cause . Two of our Founding Fathers , a Boston lawyer named Adams and a Virginia planter named Jefferson , members of that remarkable group who met in Independence Hall and dared to think they could start the world over again , left us an important lesson . They had become , in the years then in government , bitter political rivals in the Presidential election of 1800 . Then , years later , when both were retired and age had softened their anger , they began to speak to each other again through letters . A bond was reestablished between those two who had helped create this government of ours . In 1826 , the 50th anniversary of the Declaration of Independence , they both died . They died on the same day , within a few hours of each other , and that day was the Fourth of July . In one of those letters exchanged in the sunset of their lives , Jefferson wrote It carries me back to the times when , beset with difficulties and dangers , we were fellow laborers in the same cause , struggling for what is most valuable to man , his right of self government . Laboring always at the same oar , with some wave ever ahead threatening to overwhelm us , and yet passing harmless . . . we rode through the storm with heart and hand . Well , with heart and hand let us stand as one today one people under God , determined that our future shall be worthy of our past . As we do , we must not repeat the well intentioned errors of our past . We must never again abuse the trust of working men and women by sending their earnings on a futile chase after the spiraling demands of a bloated Federal Establishment . You elected us in 1980 to end this prescription for disaster , and I do not believe you reelected us in 1984 to reverse course . At the heart of our efforts is one idea vindicated by 25 straight months of economic growth Freedom and incentives unleash the drive and entrepreneurial genius that are the core of human progress . We have begun to increase the rewards for work , savings , and investment reduce the increase in the cost and size of government and its interference in people s lives . We must simplify our tax system , make it more fair and bring the rates down for all who work and earn . We must think anew and move with a new boldness , so every American who seeks work can find work , so the least among us shall have an equal chance to achieve the greatest things to be heroes who heal our sick , feed the hungry , protect peace among nations , and leave this world a better place . The time has come for a new American emancipation a great national drive to tear down economic barriers and liberate the spirit of enterprise in the most distressed areas of our country . My friends , together we can do this , and do it we must , so help me God . From new freedom will spring new opportunities for growth , a more productive , fulfilled , and united people , and a stronger America an America that will lead the technological revolution and also open its mind and heart and soul to the treasures of literature , music , and poetry , and the values of faith , courage , and love . A dynamic economy , with more citizens working and paying taxes , will be our strongest tool to bring down budget deficits . But an almost unbroken 50 years of deficit spending has finally brought us to a time of reckoning . We have come to a turning point , a moment for hard decisions . I have asked the Cabinet and my staff a question and now I put the same question to all of you . If not us , who And if not now , when It must be done by all of us going forward with a program aimed at reaching a balanced budget . We can then begin reducing the national debt . I will shortly submit a budget to the Congress aimed at freezing government program spending for the next year . Beyond this , we must take further steps to permanently control government s power to tax and spend . We must act now to protect future generations from government s desire to spend its citizens money and tax them into servitude when the bills come due . Let us make it unconstitutional for the Federal Government to spend more than the Federal Government takes in . We have already started returning to the people and to State and local governments responsibilities better handled by them . Now , there is a place for the Federal Government in matters of social compassion . But our fundamental goals must be to reduce dependency and upgrade the dignity of those who are infirm or disadvantaged . And here , a growing economy and support from family and community offer our best chance for a society where compassion is a way of life , where the old and infirm are cared for , the young and , yes , the unborn protected , and the unfortunate looked after and made self sufficient . Now , there is another area where the Federal Government can play a part . As an older American , I remember a time when people of different race , creed , or ethnic origin in our land found hatred and prejudice installed in social custom and , yes , in law . There is no story more heartening in our history than the progress that we have made toward the brotherhood of man that God intended for us . Let us resolve there will be no turning back or hesitation on the road to an America rich in dignity and abundant with opportunity for all our citizens . Let us resolve that we , the people , will build an American opportunity society in which all of us white and black , rich and poor , young and old will go forward together , arm in arm . Again , let us remember that though our heritage is one of blood lines from every corner of the Earth , we are all Americans , pledged to carry on this last , best hope of man on Earth . I have spoken of our domestic goals and the limitations we should put on our National Government . Now let me turn to a task that is the primary responsibility of National Government the safety and security of our people . Today , we utter no prayer more fervently than the ancient prayer for peace on Earth . Yet history has shown that peace does not come , nor will our freedom be preserved , by good will alone . There are those in the world who scorn our vision of human dignity and freedom . One nation , the Soviet Union , has conducted the greatest military buildup in the history of man , building arsenals of awesome offensive weapons . We have made progress in restoring our defense capability . But much remains to be done . There must be no wavering by us , nor any doubts by others , that America will meet her responsibilities to remain free , secure , and at peace . There is only one way safely and legitimately to reduce the cost of national security , and that is to reduce the need for it . And this we are trying to do in negotiations with the Soviet Union . We are not just discussing limits on a further increase of nuclear weapons we seek , instead , to reduce their number . We seek the total elimination one day of nuclear weapons from the face of the Earth . Now , for decades , we and the Soviets have lived under the threat of mutual assured destruction if either resorted to the use of nuclear weapons , the other could retaliate and destroy the one who had started it . Is there either logic or morality in believing that if one side threatens to kill tens of millions of our people our only recourse is to threaten killing tens of millions of theirs I have approved a research program to find , if we can , a security shield that will destroy nuclear missiles before they reach their target . It would not kill people it would destroy weapons . It would not militarize space it would help demilitarize the arsenals of Earth . It would render nuclear weapons obsolete . We will meet with the Soviets , hoping that we can agree on a way to rid the world of the threat of nuclear destruction . We strive for peace and security , heartened by the changes all around us . Since the turn of the century , the number of democracies in the world has grown fourfold . Human freedom is on the march , and nowhere more so than in our own hemisphere . Freedom is one of the deepest and noblest aspirations of the human spirit . People , worldwide , hunger for the right of self determination , for those inalienable rights that make for human dignity and progress . America must remain freedom s staunchest friend , for freedom is our best ally and it is the world s only hope to conquer poverty and preserve peace . Every blow we inflict against poverty will be a blow against its dark allies of oppression and war . Every victory for human freedom will be a victory for world peace . So , we go forward today , a nation still mighty in its youth and powerful in its purpose . With our alliances strengthened , with our economy leading the world to a new age of economic expansion , we look to a future rich in possibilities . And all of this is because we worked and acted together , not as members of political parties but as Americans . My friends , we live in a world that is lit by lightning . So much is changing and will change , but so much endures and transcends time . History is a ribbon , always unfurling . History is a journey . And as we continue our journey , we think of those who traveled before us . We stand again at the steps of this symbol of our democracy well , we would have been standing at the steps if it had not gotten so cold . Now we are standing inside this symbol of our democracy , and we see and hear again the echoes of our past a general falls to his knees in the hard snow of Valley Forge a lonely President paces the darkened halls and ponders his struggle to preserve the Union the men of the Alamo call out encouragement to each other a settler pushes west and sings a song , and the song echoes out forever and fills the unknowing air . It is the American sound . It is hopeful , big hearted , idealistic , daring , decent , and fair . That is our heritage , that is our song . We sing it still . For all our problems , our differences , we are together as of old . We raise our voices to the God who is the Author of this most tender music . And may He continue to hold us close as we fill the world with our sound in unity , affection , and love one people under God , dedicated to the dream of freedom that He has placed in the human heart , called upon now to pass that dream on to a waiting and hopeful world . God bless you , and God bless America .<speech_sep>I had intended to make some remarks about the problem of social security tonight , but the immediacy of congressional action on the tax program , a key component of our economic package , has to take priority . Let me just say , however , I have been deeply disturbed by the way those of you who are dependent on social security have been needlessly frightened by some of the inaccuracies which have been given wide circulation . It is true that the social security system has financial problems . It is also true that these financial problems have been building for more than 20 years , and nothing has been done . I hope to address you on this entire subject in the near future . In the meantime , let me just say this I stated during the campaign and I repeat now , I will not stand by and see those of you who are dependent on social security deprived of the benefits you have worked so hard to earn . I make that pledge to you as your President . You have no reason to be frightened . You will continue to receive your checks in the full amount due you . In any plan to restore fiscal integrity of social security , I personally will see that the plan will not be at the expense of you who are now dependent on your monthly social security checks . Now , let us turn to the business at hand . It is been nearly 6 months since I first reported to you on the state of the nation s economy . I am afraid my message that night was grim and disturbing . I remember telling you we were in the worst economic mess since the Great Depression . Prices were continuing to spiral upward , unemployment was reaching intolerable levels , and all because government was too big and spent too much of our money . We are still not out of the woods , but we have made a start . And we have certainly surprised those longtime and somewhat cynical observers of the Washington scene , who looked , listened , and said , It can never be done Washington will never change its spending habits . Well , something very exciting has been happening here in Washington , and you are responsible . Your voices have been heard millions of you , Democrats , Republicans , and Independents , from every profession , trade and line of work , and from every part of this land . You sent a message that you wanted a new beginning . You wanted to change one little , two little word two letter word , I should say . It does not sound like much , but it sure can make a difference changing by government , control by government to control of government . In that earlier broadcast , you will recall I proposed a program to drastically cut back government spending in the 1982 budget , which begins October 1st , and to continue cutting in the 83 and 84 budgets . Along with this I suggested an across the board tax cut , spread over those same 3 years , and the elimination of unnecessary regulations which were adding billions to the cost of things we buy . All the lobbying , the organized demonstrations , and the cries of protest by those whose way of life depends on maintaining government s wasteful ways were no match for your voices , which were heard loud and clear in these marble halls of government . And you made history with your telegrams , your letters , your phone calls and , yes , personal visits to talk to your elected representatives . You reaffirmed the mandate you delivered in the election last November a mandate that called for an end to government policies that sent prices and mortgage rates skyrocketing while millions of Americans went jobless . Because of what you did , Republicans and Democrats in the Congress came together and passed the most sweeping cutbacks in the history of the Federal budget . Right now , Members of the House and Senate are meeting in a conference committee to reconcile the differences between the two budget cutting bills passed by the House and Senate . When they finish , all Americans will benefit from savings of approximately 140 billion in reduced government costs over just the next 3 years . And that does not include the additional savings from the hundreds of burdensome regulations already cancelled or facing cancellation . For 19 out of the last 20 years , the Federal Government has spent more than it took in . There will be another large deficit in this present year which ends September 30th , but with our program in place , it will not be quite as big as it might have been . And starting next year , the deficits will get smaller until in just a few years the budget can be balanced . And we hope we can begin whittling at that almost 1 trillion debt that hangs over the future of our children . Now , so far , I have been talking about only one part of our program for economic recovery the budget cutting part . I do not minimize its importance . Just the fact that Democrats and Republicans could work together as they have , proving the strength of our system , has created an optimism in our land . The rate of inflation is no longer in double digit figures . The dollar has regained strength in the international money markets , and businessmen and investors are making decisions with regard to industrial development , modernization and expansion all of this based on anticipation of our program being adopted and put into operation . A recent poll shows that where a year and a half ago only 24 percent of our people believed things would get better , today 46 percent believe they will . To justify their faith , we must deliver the other part of our program . Our economic package is a closely knit , carefully constructed plan to restore America s economic strength and put our nation back on the road to prosperity . Each part of this package is vital . It cannot be considered piecemeal . It was proposed as a package , and it has been supported as such by the American people . Only if the Congress passes all of its major components does it have any real chance of success . This is absolutely essential if we are to provide incentives and make capital available for the increased productivity required to provide real , permanent jobs for our people . And let us not forget that the rest of the world is watching America carefully to see how we will act at this critical moment . I have recently returned from a summit meeting with world leaders in Ottawa , Canada , and the message I heard from them was quite clear . Our allies depend on a strong and economically sound America . And they are watching events in this country , particularly those surrounding our program for economic recovery , with close attention and great hopes . In short , the best way to have a strong foreign policy abroad is to have a strong economy at home . The day after tomorrow , Wednesday , the House of Representatives will begin debate on two tax bills . And once again , they need to hear from you . I know that does not give you much time , but a great deal is at stake . A few days ago I was visited here in the office by a Democratic Congressman from one of our southern States . He had been back in his district . And one day one of his constituents asked him where he stood on our economic recovery program I outlined that program in an earlier broadcast particularly the tax cut . Well , the Congressman , who happens to be a strong leader in support of our program , replied at some length with a discussion of the technical points involved , but he also mentioned a few reservations he had on certain points . The constituent , a farmer , listened politely until he had finished , and then he said , Do not give me an essay . What I want to know is are you for im or agin im Well , I appreciate the gentleman s support and suggest his question is a message your own representatives should hear . Let me add , those representatives honestly and sincerely want to know your feelings . They get plenty of input from the special interest groups . They had like to hear from their home folks . Now , let me explain what the situation is and what is at issue . With our budget cuts , we have presented a complete program of reduction in tax rates . Again , our purpose was to provide incentive for the individual , incentives for business to encourage production and hiring of the unemployed , and to free up money for investment . Our bill calls for a 5 percent reduction in the income tax rates by October 1st , a 10 percent reduction beginning July 1st , 1982 , and another 10 percent cut a year later , a 25 percent total reduction over 3 years . But then to ensure the tax cut is permanent , we call for indexing the tax rates in 1985 , which means adjusting them for inflation . As it is now , if you get a cost of living raise that is intended to keep you even with inflation , you find that the increase in the number of dollars you get may very likely move you into a higher tax bracket , and you wind up poorer than you would . This is called bracket creep . Bracket creep is an insidious tax . Let me give an example . If you earned 10 , 000 a year in 1972 , by 1980 you had to earn 19 , 700 just to stay even with inflation . But that is before taxes . Come April 15th , you will find your tax rates have increased 30 percent . Now , if you have been wondering why you do not seem as well off as you were a few years back , it is because government makes a profit on inflation . It gets an automatic tax increase without having to vote on it . We intend to stop that . Time will not allow me to explain every detail . But our bill includes just about everything to help the economy . We reduce the marriage penalty , that unfair tax that has a working husband and wife pay more tax than if they were single . We increase the exemption on the inheritance or estate tax to 600 , 000 , so that farmers and family owned businesses do not have to sell the farm or store in the event of death just to pay the taxes . Most important , we wipe out the tax entirely for a surviving spouse . No longer , for example , will a widow have to sell the family source of income to pay a tax on her husband s death . There are deductions to encourage investment and savings . Business gets realistic depreciation on equipment and machinery . And there are tax breaks for small and independent businesses which create 80 percent of all our new jobs . This bill also provides major credits to the research and development industry . These credits will help spark the high technology breakthroughs that are so critical to America s economic leadership in the world . There are also added incentives for small businesses , including a provision that will lift much of the burden of costly paperwork that government has imposed on small business . In addition , there is short term but substantial assistance for the hard pressed thrift industry , as well as reductions in oil taxes that will benefit new or independent oil producers and move our nation a step closer to energy self sufficiency . Our bill is , in short , the first real tax cut for everyone in almost 20 years . Now , when I first proposed this incidentally , it has now become a bipartisan measure coauthored by Republican Barber Conable and Democrat Kent Hance the Democratic leadership said a tax cut was out of the question . It would be wildly inflationary . And that was before my inauguration . And then your voices began to he heard and suddenly , in February , the leadership discovered that , well , a 1 year tax cut was feasible . Well , we kept on pushing our 3 year tax cut and by June , the opposition found that a 2 year tax cut might work . Now it is July , and they find they could even go for a third year cut provided there was a trigger arrangement that would only allow it to go into effect if certain economic goals had been met by 1983 . But by holding the people s tax reduction hostage to future economic events , they will eliminate the people s ability to plan ahead . Shopkeepers , farmers , and individuals will be denied the certainty they must have to begin saving or investing more of their money . And encouraging more savings and investment is precisely what we need now to rebuild our economy . There is also a little sleight of hand in that trigger mechanism . You see , their bill , the committee bill , ensures that the 1983 deficit will be 6 1 2 billion greater than their own trigger requires . As it stands now , the design of their own bill will not meet the trigger they have put in therefore , the third year tax cut will automatically never take place . If I could paraphrase a well known statement by Will Rogers that he had never met a man he did not like , I am afraid we have some people around here who never met a tax they did not hike . Their tax proposal , similar in a number of ways to ours but differing in some very vital parts , was passed out of the House Ways and Means Committee , and from now on I will refer to it as the committee bill and ours as the bipartisan bill . They will be the bills taken up Wednesday . The majority leadership claims theirs gives a greater break to the worker than ours , and it does that is , if your re only planning to live 2 more years . The plain truth is , our choice is not between two plans to reduce taxes it is between a tax cut or a tax increase . There is now built into our present system , including payroll social security taxes and the bracket creep I have mentioned , a 22 percent tax increase over the next 3 years . The committee bill offers a 15 percent cut over 2 years our bipartisan bill gives a 25 percent reduction over 3 years . Now , as you can see by this chart , there is the 22 percent tax increase . Their cut is below that line . But ours wipes out that increase and with a little to spare . And there it is , as you can see . The red column that is the 15 percent tax cut , and it still leaves you with an increase . The green column is our bipartisan bill which wipes out the tax increase and gives you an ongoing cut . Incidentally , their claim that cutting taxes for individuals for as much as 3 years ahead is risky , rings a little hollow when you realize that their bill calls for business tax cuts each year for 7 years ahead . It rings even more hollow when you consider the fact the majority leadership routinely endorses Federal spending bills that project years into the future , but objects to a tax bill that will return your money over a 3 year period . Now , here is another chart which illustrates what I said about their giving a better break if you only intend to live for 2 more years . Their tax cut , so called , is the dotted line . Ours is the solid line . As you can see , in an earning bracket of 20 , 000 , their tax cut is slightly more generous than ours for the first 2 years . Then , as you can see , their tax bill , the dotted line , starts going up and up and up . On the other hand , in our bipartisan tax bill , the solid line , our tax cut keeps on going down , and then stays down permanently . This is true of all earning brackets not just the 20 , 000 level that I have used as an example from the lowest to the highest . This red space between the two lines is the tax money that will remain in your pockets if our bill passes and it is the amount that will leave your pockets if their tax bill is passed . Now , I take no pleasure in saying this , but those who will seek to defeat our Conable Hanee bipartisan bill as debate begins Wednesday are the ones who have given us five tax cuts in the last 10 years . But , our taxes went up 400 billion in those same 10 years . The lines on these charts say a lot about who is really fighting for whom . On the one hand , you see a genuine and lasting commitment to the future of working Americans on the other , just another empty promise . Those of us in the bipartisan coalition want to give this economy and the future of this Nation back to the people , because putting people first has always been America s secret weapon . The House majority leadership seems less concerned about protecting your family budget than with spending more on the Federal budget . Our bipartisan tax bill targets three quarters of its tax relief to middle income wage earners who presently pay almost three quarter of the total income tax . It also then indexes the tax brackets to ensure that you can keep that tax reduction in the years ahead . There also is , as I said , estate tax relief that will keep family farms and family owned businesses in the family , and there are provisions for personal retirement plans and individual savings accounts . Because our bipartisan bill is so clearly drawn and broadly based , it provides the kind of predictability and certainty that the financial segments of our society need to make investment decisions that stimulate productivity and make our economy grow . Even more important , if the tax cut goes to you , the American people , in the third year , that money returned to you will not be available to the Congress to spend , and that , in my view , is what this whole controversy comes down to . Are you entitled to the fruits of your own labor or does government have some presumptive right to spend and spend and spend I am also convinced our business tax cut is superior to theirs because it is more equitable , and it will do a much better job promoting the surge in investment we so badly need to rebuild our industrial base . There is something else I want to tell you . Our bipartisan coalition worked out a tax bill we felt would provide incentive and stimulate productivity , thus reducing inflation and providing jobs for the unemployed . That was our only goal . Our opponents in the beginning did not want a tax bill at all . So what is the purpose behind their change of heart They have put a tax program together for one reason only to provide themselves with a political victory . Never mind that it will not solve the economic problems confronting our country . Never mind that it will not get the wheels of industry turning again or eliminate the inflation which is eating us alive . This is not the time for political fun and games . This is the time for a new beginning . I ask you now to put aside any feelings of frustration or helplessness about our political institutions and join me in this dramatic but responsible plan to reduce the enormous burden of Federal taxation on you and your family . During recent months many of you have asked what can you do to help make America strong again . I urge you again to contact your Senators and Congressmen . Tell them of your support for this bipartisan proposal . Tell them you believe this is an unequalled opportunity to help return America to prosperity and make government again the servant of the people . In a few days the Congress will stand at the fork of two roads . One road is all too familiar to us . It leads ultimately to higher taxes . It merely brings us full circle back to the source of our economic problems , where the government decides that it knows better than you what should be done with your earnings and , in fact , how you should conduct your life . The other road promises to renew the American spirit . It is a road of hope and opportunity . It places the direction of your life back in your hands where it belongs . I have not taken your time this evening merely to ask you to trust me . Instead , I ask you to trust yourselves . That is what America is all about . Our struggle for nationhood , our unrelenting fight for freedom , our very existence these have all rested on the assurance that you must be free to shape your life as you are best able to , that no one can stop you from reaching higher or take from you the creativity that has made America the envy of mankind . One road is timid and fearful the other bold and hopeful . In these 6 months , we have done so much and have come so far . It is been the power of millions of people like you who have determined that we will make America great again . You have made the difference up to now . You will make the difference again . Let us not stop now . Thank you . God bless you , and good night .<speech_sep>My fellow Americans Today has been a day that should make us proud . It marked the end of the successful evacuation of PLO from Beirut , Lebanon . This peaceful step could never have been taken without the good offices of the United States and especially the truly heroic work of a great American diplomat , Ambassador Philip Habib . Thanks to his efforts , I am happy to announce that the Marine contingent helping to supervise the evacuation has accomplished its mission . Our young men should be out of Lebanon within 2 weeks . They , too , have served the cause of peace with distinction , and we can all be very proud of them . But the situation in Lebanon is only part of the overall problem of conflict in the Middle East . So , over the past 2 weeks , while events in Beirut dominated the front page , America was engaged in a quiet , behind the scenes effort to lay the groundwork for a broader peace in the region . For once there were no premature leaks as diplomatic missions traveled to Mideast capitals , and I met here at home with a wide range of experts to map out an American peace initiative for the long suffering peoples of the Middle East Arab and Israeli alike . It seemed to me that with the agreement in Lebanon we had an opportunity for a more far reaching peace effort in the region , and I was determined to seize that moment . In the words of the scripture , the time had come to follow after the things which make for peace . Tonight I want to report to you the steps we have taken and the prospects they can open up for a just and lasting peace in the Middle East . America has long been committed to bringing peace to this troubled region . For more than a generation , successive United States administrations have endeavored to develop a fair and workable process that could lead to a true and lasting Arab Israeli peace . Our involvement in the search for Mideast peace is not a matter of preference it is a moral imperative . The strategic importance of the region to the United States is well known , but our policy is motivated by more than strategic interests . We also have an irreversible commitment to the survival and territorial integrity of friendly states . Nor can we ignore the fact that the well being of much of the world s economy is tied to stability in the strife torn Middle East . Finally , our traditional humanitarian concerns dictated a continuing effort to peacefully resolve conflicts . When our administration assumed office in January of 1981 , I decided that the general framework for our Middle East policy should follow the broad guidelines laid down by my predecessors . There were two basic issues we had to address . First , there was the strategic threat to the region posed by the Soviet Union and its surrogates , best demonstrated by the brutal war in Afghanistan , and , second , the peace process between Israel and its Arab neighbors . With regard to the Soviet threat , we have strengthened our efforts to develop with our friends and allies a joint policy to deter the Soviets and their surrogates from further expansion in the region and , if necessary , to defend against it . With respect to the Arab Israeli conflict , we have embraced the Camp David framework as the only way to proceed . We have also recognized , however , solving the Arab Israeli conflict in and of itself cannot assure peace throughout a region as vast and troubled as the Middle East . Our first objective under the Camp David process was to ensure the successful fulfillment of the Egyptian Israeli peace treaty . This was achieved with the peaceful return of the Sinai to Egypt in April 1982 . To accomplish this , we worked hard with our Egyptian and Israeli friends and , eventually , with other friendly countries to create the multinational force which now operates in the Sinai . Throughout this period of difficult and time consuming negotiations , we never lost sight of the next step of Camp David autonomy talks to pave the way for permitting the Palestinian people to exercise their legitimate rights . However , owing to the tragic assassination of President Sadat and other crises in the area , it was not until January 1982 that we were able to make a major effort to renew these talks . Secretary of State Haig and Ambassador Fairbanks made three visits to Israel and Egypt early this year to pursue the autonomy talks . Considerable progress was made in developing the basic outline of an American approach which was to be presented to Egypt and Israel after April . The successful completion of Israel s withdrawal from Sinai and the courage shown on this occasion by Prime Minister Begin and President Mubarak in living up to their agreements convinced me the time had come for a new American policy to try to bridge the remaining differences between Egypt and Israel on the autonomy process . So , in May 1 called for specific measures and a timetable for consultations with the Governments of Egypt and Israel on the next steps in the peace process . However , before this effort could be launched , the conflict in Lebanon preempted our efforts . The autonomy talks were basically put on hold while we sought to untangle the parties in Lebanon and still the guns of war . The Lebanon war , tragic as it was , has left us with a new opportunity for Middle East peace . We must seize it now and bring peace to this troubled area so vital to world stability while there is still time . It was with this strong conviction that over a month ago , before the present negotiations in Beirut had been completed , I directed Secretary of State Shultz to again review our policy and to consult a wide range of outstanding Americans on the best ways to strengthen chances for peace in the Middle East . We have consulted with many of the officials who were historically involved in the process , with Members of the Congress , and with individuals from the private sector . And I have held extensive consultations with my own advisers on the principles that I will outline to you tonight . The evacuation of the PLO from Beirut is now complete , and we can now help the Lebanese to rebuild their war torn country . We owe it to ourselves and to posterity to move quickly to build upon this achievement . A stable and revived Lebanon is essential to all our hopes for peace in the region . The people of Lebanon deserve the best efforts of the international community to turn the nightmares of the past several years into a new dawn of hope . But the opportunities for peace in the Middle East do not begin and end in Lebanon . As we help Lebanon rebuild , we must also move to resolve the root causes of conflict between Arabs and Israelis . The war in Lebanon has demonstrated many things , but two consequences are key to the peace process . First the military losses of the PLO have not diminished the yearning of the Palestinian people for a just solution of their claims and , second , while Israel s military successes in Lebanon have demonstrated that its armed forces are second to none in the region , they alone cannot bring just and lasting peace to Israel and her neighbors . The question now is how to reconcile Israel s legitimate security concerns with the legitimate rights of the Palestinians . And that answer can only come at the negotiating table . Each party must recognize that the outcome must be acceptable to all and that true peace will require compromises by all . So , tonight I am calling for a fresh start . This is the moment for all those directly concerned to get involved or lend their support to a workable basis for peace . The Camp David agreement remains the foundation of our policy . Its language provides all parties with the leeway they need for successful negotiations . I call on Israel to make clear that the security for which she yearns can only be achieved through genuine peace , a peace requiring magnanimity , vision , and courage . I call on the Palestinian people to recognize that their own political aspirations are inextricably bound to recognition of Israel s right to a secure future . And I call on the Arab States to accept the reality of Israel and the reality that peace and justice are to be gained only through hard , fair , direct negotiation . In making these calls upon others , I recognize that the United States has a special responsibility . No other nation is in a position to deal with the key parties to the conflict on the basis of trust and reliability . The time has come for a new realism on the part of all the peoples of the Middle East . The State of Israel is an accomplished fact it deserves unchallenged legitimacy within the community of nations . But Israel s legitimacy has thus far been recognized by too few countries and has been denied by every Arab State except Egypt . Israel exists it has a right to exist in peace behind secure and defensible borders and it has a right to demand of its neighbors that they recognize those facts . I have personally followed and supported Israel s heroic struggle for survival , ever since the founding of the State of Israel 34 years ago . In the pre 1967 borders Israel was barely 10 miles wide at its narrowest point . The bulk of Israel s population lived within artillery range of hostile Arab armies . I am not about to ask Israel to live that way again . The war in Lebanon has demonstrated another reality in the region . The departure of the Palestinians from Beirut dramatizes more than ever the homelessness of the Palestinian people . Palestinians feel strongly that their cause is more than a question of refugees . I agree . The Camp David agreement recognized that fact when it spoke of the legitimate rights of the Palestinian people and their just requirements . For peace to endure it must involve all those who have been most deeply affected by the conflict . Only through broader participation in the peace process , most immediately by Jordan and by the Palestinians , will Israel be able to rest confident in the knowledge that its security and integrity will be respected by its neighbors . Only through the process of negotiation can all the nations of the Middle East achieve a secure peace . These , then , are our general goals . What are the specific new American positions , and why are we taking them In the Camp David talks thus far , both Israel and Egypt have felt free to express openly their views as to what the outcome should be . Understandably their views have differed on many points . The United States has thus far sought to play the role of mediator . We have avoided public comment on the key issues . We have always recognized and continue to recognize that only the voluntary agreement of those parties most directly involved in the conflict can provide an enduring solution . But it is become evident to me that some clearer sense of America s position on the key issues is necessary to encourage wider support for the peace process . First , as outlined in the Camp David accords , there must be a period of time during which the Palestinian inhabitants of the West Bank and Gaza will have full autonomy over their own affairs . Due consideration must be given to the principle of self government by the inhabitants of the territories and to the legitimate security concerns of the parties involved . The purpose of the 5 year period of transition which would begin after free elections for a self governing Palestinian authority is to prove to the Palestinians that they can run their own affairs and that such Palestinian autonomy poses no threat to Israel s security . The United States will not support the use of any additional land for the purpose of settlements during the transitional period . Indeed , the immediate adoption of a settlement freeze by Israel , more than any other action , could create the confidence needed for wider participation in these talks . Further settlement activity is in no way necessary for the security of Israel and only diminishes the confidence of the Arabs that a final outcome can be freely and fairly negotiated . I want to make the American position well understood . The purpose of this transitional period is the peaceful and orderly transfer of authority from Israel to the Palestinian inhabitants of the West Bank and Gaza . At the same time , such a transfer must not interfere with Israel s security requirements . Beyond the transition period , as we look to the future of the West Bank and Gaza , it is clear to me that peace cannot be achieved by the formation of an independent Palestinian state in those territories , nor is it achievable on the basis of Israeli sovereignty or permanent control over the West Bank and Gaza . So , the United States will not support the establishment of an independent Palestinian state in the West Bank and Gaza , and we will not support annexation or permanent control by Israel . There is , however , another way to peace . The final status of these lands must , of course , be reached through the give and take of negotiations . But it is the firm view of the United States that self government by the Palestinians of the West Bank and Gaza in association with Jordan offers the best chance for a durable , just , and lasting peace . We base our approach squarely on the principle that the Arab Israeli conflict should be resolved through negotiations involving an exchange of territory for peace . This exchange is enshrined in United Nations Security Council Resolution 242 , which is , in turn , incorporated in all its parts in the Camp David agreements . Resolution 242 remains wholly valid as the foundation stone of America s Middle East peace effort . It is the United States position that , in return for peace , the withdrawal provision of Resolution 242 applies to all fronts , including the West Bank and Gaza . When the border is negotiated between Jordan and Israel , our view on the extent to which Israel should be asked to give up territory will be heavily affected by the extent of true peace and normalization , and the security arrangements offered in return . Finally , we remain convinced that Jerusalem must remain undivided , but its final status should be decided through negotiation . In the course of the negotiations to come , the United States will support positions that seem to us fair and reasonable compromises and likely to promote a sound agreement . We will also put forward our own detailed proposals when we believe they can be helpful . And , make no mistake , the United States will oppose any proposal from any party and at any point in the negotiating process that threatens the security of Israel . America s commitment to the security of Israel is ironclad , and , I might add , so is mine . During the past few days , our Ambassadors in Israel , Egypt , Jordan , and Saudi Arabia have presented to their host governments the proposals , in full detail , that I have outlined here today . Now I am convinced that these proposals can bring justice , bring security , and bring durability to an Arab Israeli peace . The United States will stand by these principles with total dedication . They are fully consistent with Israel s security requirements and the aspirations of the Palestinians . We will work hard to broaden participation at the peace table as envisaged by the Camp David accords . And I fervently hope that the Palestinians and Jordan , with the support of their Arab colleagues , will accept this opportunity . Tragic turmoil in the Middle East runs back to the dawn of history . In our modern day , conflict after conflict has taken its brutal toll there . In an age of nuclear challenge and economic interdependence , such conflicts are a threat to all the people of the world , not just the Middle East itself . It is time for us all in the Middle East and around the world to call a halt to conflict , hatred , and prejudice . It is time for us all to launch a common effort for reconstruction , peace , and progress . It has often been said and , regrettably , too often been true that the story of the search for peace and justice in the Middle East is a tragedy of opportunities missed . In the aftermath of the settlement in Lebanon , we now face an opportunity for a broader peace . This time we must not let it slip from our grasp . We must look beyond the difficulties and obstacles of the present and move with a fairness and resolve toward a brighter future . We owe it to ourselves and to posterity to do no less . For if we miss this chance to make a fresh start , we may look back on this moment from some later vantage point and realize how much that failure cost us all . These , then , are the principles upon which American policy toward the Arab Israeli conflict will be based . I have made a personal commitment to see that they endure and , God willing , that they will come to be seen by all reasonable , compassionate people as fair , achievable , and in the interests of all who wish to see peace in the Middle East . Tonight , on the eve of what can be a dawning of new hope for the people of the troubled Middle East and for all the world s people who dream of a just and peaceful future I ask you , my fellow Americans , for your support and your prayers in this great undertaking . Thank you , and God bless you .<speech_sep>Chancellor Kohl and honored guests , this painful walk into the past has done much more than remind us of the war that consumed the European Continent . What we have seen makes unforgettably clear that no one of the rest of us can fully understand the enormity of the feelings carried by the victims of these camps . The survivors carry a memory beyond anything that we can comprehend . The awful evil started by one man , an evil that victimized all the world with its destruction , was uniquely destructive of the millions forced into the grim abyss of these camps . Here lie people Jews whose death was inflicted for no reason other than their very existence . Their pain was borne only because of who they were and because of the God in their prayers . Alongside them lay many Christians Catholics and Protestants . For year after year , until that man and his evil were destroyed , hell yawned forth its awful contents . People were brought here for no other purpose but to suffer and die to go unfed when hungry , uncared for when sick , tortured when the whim struck , and left to have misery consume them when all there was around them was misery . I am sure we all share similar first thoughts , and that is What of the youngsters who died at this dark stalag All was gone for them forever not to feel again the warmth of life s sunshine and promise , not the laughter and the splendid ache of growing up , nor the consoling embrace of a family . Try to think of being young and never having a day without searing emotional and physical pain desolate , unrelieved pain . Today , we have been grimly reminded why the commandant of this camp was named the Beast of Belsen . Above all , we are struck by the horror of it all the monstrous , incomprehensible horror . And that is what we have seen but is what we can never understand as the victims did . Nor with all our compassion can we feel what the survivors feel to this day and what they will feel as long as they live . What we have felt and are expressing with words cannot convey the suffering that they endured . That is why history will forever brand what happened as the Holocaust . Here , death ruled , but we have learned something as well . Because of what happened , we found that death cannot rule forever , and that is why we are here today . We are here because humanity refuses to accept that freedom of the spirit of man can ever be extinguished . We are here to commemorate that life triumphed over the tragedy and the death of the Holocaust overcame the suffering , the sickness , the testing and , yes , the gassings . We are here today to confirm that the horror cannot outlast hope , and that even from the worst of all things , the best may come forth . Therefore , even out of this overwhelming sadness , there must be some purpose , and there is . It comes to us through the transforming love of God . We learn from the Talmud that It was only through suffering that the children of Israel obtained three priceless and coveted gifts The Torah , the Land of Israel , and the World to Come . Yes , out of this sickness as crushing and cruel as it was there was hope for the world as well as for the world to come . Out of the ashes hope , and from all the pain promise . So much of this is symbolized today by the fact that most of the leadership of free Germany is represented here today . Chancellor Kohl , you and your countrymen have made real the renewal that had to happen . Your nation and the German people have been strong and resolute in your willingness to confront and condemn the acts of a hated regime of the past . This reflects the courage of your people and their devotion to freedom and justice since the war . Think how far we have come from that time when despair made these tragic victims wonder if anything could survive . As we flew here from Hanover , low over the greening farms and the emerging springtime of the lovely German countryside , I reflected , and there must have been a time when the prisoners at Bergen Belsen and those of every other camp must have felt the springtime was gone forever from their lives . Surely we can understand that when we see what is around us all these children of God under bleak and lifeless mounds , the plainness of which does not even hint at the unspeakable acts that created them . Here they lie , never to hope , never to pray , never to love , never to heal , never to laugh , never to cry . And too many of them knew that this was their fate , but that was not the end . Through it all was their faith and a spirit that moved their faith . Nothing illustrates this better than the story of a young girl who died here at Bergen Belsen . For more than 2 years Anne Frank and her family had hidden from the Nazis in a confined annex in Holland where she kept a remarkably profound diary . Betrayed by an informant , Anne and her family were sent by freight car first to Auschwitz and finally here to Bergen Belsen . Just 3 weeks before her capture , young Anne wrote these words It is really a wonder that I have not dropped all my ideals because they seem so absurd and impossible to carry out . Yet I keep them because in spite of everything I still believe that people are good at heart . I simply cannot build up my hopes on a foundation consisting of confusion , misery , and death . I see the world gradually being turned into a wilderness . I hear the ever approaching thunder which will destroy us too I can feel the suffering of millions and yet , if I looked up into the heavens I think that it will all come right , that this cruelty too will end and that peace and tranquility will return again . Eight months later , this sparkling young life ended here at Bergen Belsen . Somewhere here lies Anne Frank . Everywhere here are memories pulling us , touching us , making us understand that they can never be erased . Such memories take us where God intended His children to go toward learning , toward healing , and , above all , toward redemption . They beckon us through the endless stretches of our heart to the knowing commitment that the life of each individual can change the world and make it better . We are all witnesses we share the glistening hope that rests in every human soul . Hope leads us , if we are prepared to trust it , toward what our President Lincoln called the better angels of our nature . And then , rising above all this cruelty , out of this tragic and nightmarish time , beyond the anguish , the pain and the suffering for all time , we can and must pledge Never again .<speech_sep>Officers , ladies and gentlemen of the National Press Club and , as of a very short time ago , fellow members Back in April while in the hospital I had , as you can readily understand , a lot of time for reflection . And one day I decided to send a personal , handwritten letter to Soviet President Leonid Brezhnev reminding him that we had met about 10 years ago in San Clemente , California , as he and President Nixon were concluding a series of meetings that had brought hope to all the world . Never had peace and good will seemed closer at hand . I had like to read you a few paragraphs from that letter . President When we met , I asked if you were aware that the hopes and aspirations of millions of people throughout the world were dependent on the decisions that would be reached in those meetings . You took my hand in both of yours and assured me that you were aware of that and that you were dedicated with all your heart and soul and mind to fulfilling those hopes and dreams . I went on in my letter to say The people of the world still share that hope . Indeed , the peoples of the world , despite differences in racial and ethnic origin , have very much in common . They want the dignity of having some control over their individual lives , their destiny . They want to work at the craft or trade of their own choosing and to be fairly rewarded . They want to raise their families in peace without harming anyone or suffering harm themselves . Government exists for their convenience , not the other way around . If they are incapable , as some would have us believe , of self government , then where among them do we find any who are capable of governing others Is it possible that we have permitted ideology , political and economic philosophies , and governmental policies to keep us from considering the very real , everyday problems of our peoples Will the average Soviet family be better off or even aware that the Soviet Union has imposed a government of its own choice on the people of Afghanistan Is life better for the people of Cuba because the Cuban military dictate who shall govern the people of Angola It is often implied that such things have been made necessary because of territorial ambitions of the United States that we have imperialistic designs , and thus constitute a threat to your own security and that of the newly emerging nations . Not only is there no evidence to support such a charge , there is solid evidence that the United States , when it could have dominated the world with no risk to itself , made no effort whatsoever to do so . When World War II ended , the United States had the only undamaged industrial power in the world . Our military might was at its peak , and we alone had the ultimate weapon , the nuclear weapon , with the unquestioned ability to deliver it anywhere in the world . If we had sought world domination then , who could have opposed us But the United States followed a different course , one unique in all the history of mankind . We used our power and wealth to rebuild the war ravished economies of the world , including those of the nations who had been our enemies . May I say , there is absolutely no substance to charges that the United States is guilty of imperialism or attempts to impose its will on other countries , by use of force . I continued my letter by saying or concluded my letter , I should say by saying , President , should we not be concerned with eliminating the obstacles which prevent our people , those you and I represent , from achieving their most cherished goals Well , it is in the same spirit that I want to speak today to this audience and the people of the world about America s program for peace and the coming negotiations which begin November 30th in Geneva , Switzerland . Specifically , I want to present our program for preserving peace in Europe and our wider program for arms control . Twice in my lifetime , I have seen the peoples of Europe plunged into the tragedy of war . Twice in my lifetime , Europe has suffered destruction and military occupation in wars that statesmen proved powerless to prevent , soldiers unable to contain , and ordinary citizens unable to escape . And twice in my lifetime , young Americans have bled their lives into the soil of those battlefields not to enrich or enlarge our domain , but to restore the peace and independence of our friends and Allies . All of us who lived through those troubled times share a common resolve that they must never come again . And most of us share a common appreciation of the Atlantic Alliance that has made a peaceful , free , and prosperous Western Europe in the post war era possible . But today , a new generation is emerging on both sides of the Atlantic . Its members were not present at the creation of the North Atlantic Alliance . Many of them do not fully understand its roots in defending freedom and rebuilding a war torn continent . Some young people question why we need weapons , particularly nuclear weapons , to deter war and to assure peaceful development . They fear that the accumulation of weapons itself may lead to conflagration . Some even propose unilateral disarmament . I understand their concerns . Their questions deserve to be answered . But we have an obligation to answer their questions on the basis of judgment and reason and experience . Our policies have resulted in the longest European peace in this century . Would not a rash departure from these policies , as some now suggest , endanger that peace From its founding , the Atlantic Alliance has preserved the peace through unity , deterrence , and dialog . First , we and our Allies have stood united by the firm commitment that an attack upon any one of us would be considered an attack upon us all . Second , we and our Allies have deterred aggression by maintaining forces strong enough to ensure that any aggressor would lose more from an attack than he could possibly gain . And third , we and our Allies have engaged the Soviets in a dialog about mutual restraint and arms limitations , hoping to reduce the risk of war and the burden of armaments and to lower the barriers that divide East from West . These three elements of our policy have preserved the peace in Europe for more than a third of a century . They can preserve it for generations to come , so long as we pursue them with sufficient will and vigor . Today , I wish to reaffirm America s commitment to the Atlantic Alliance and our resolve to sustain the peace . And from my conversations with allied leaders , I know that they also remain true to this tried and proven course . NATO s policy of peace is based on restraint and balance . No NATO weapons , conventional or nuclear , will ever be used in Europe except in response to attack . NATO s defense plans have been responsible and restrained . The Allies remain strong , united , and resolute . But the momentum of the continuing Soviet military buildup threatens both the conventional and the nuclear balance . Consider the facts . Over the past decade , the United States reduced the size of its Armed Forces and decreased its military spending . The Soviets steadily increased the number of men under arms . They now number more than double those of the United States . Over the same period , the Soviets expanded their real military spending by about one third . The Soviet Union increased its inventory of tanks to some 50 , 000 , compared to our 11 , 000 . Historically a land power , they transformed their navy from a coastal defense force to an open ocean fleet , while the United States , a sea power with transoceanic alliances , cut its fleet in half . During a period when NATO deployed no new intermediate range nuclear missiles and actually withdrew 1 , 000 nuclear warheads , the Soviet Union deployed more than 750 nuclear warheads on the new SS20 missiles alone . Our response to this relentless buildup of Soviet military power has been restrained but firm . We have made decisions to strengthen all three legs of the strategic triad sea , land , and air based . We have proposed a defense program in the United States for the next 5 years which will remedy the neglect of the past decade and restore the eroding balance on which our security depends . I would like to discuss more specifically the growing threat to Western Europe which is posed by the continuing deployment of certain Soviet intermediate range nuclear missiles . The Soviet Union has three different type such missile systems the SS20 , the SS 4 , and the SS 5 , all with the range capable of reaching virtually all of Western Europe . There are other Soviet weapon systems which also represent a major threat . Now , the only answer to these systems is a comparable threat to Soviet threats , to Soviet targets in other words , a deterrent preventing the use of these Soviet weapons by the counterthreat of a like response against their own territory . At present , however , there is no equivalent deterrent to these Soviet intermediate missiles . And the Soviets continue to add one new SS 20 a week . To counter this , the Allies agreed in 1979 , as part of a two track decision , to deploy as a deterrent land based cruise missiles and Pershing II missiles capable of reaching targets in the Soviet Union . These missiles are to be deployed in several countries of Western Europe . This relatively limited force in no way serves as a substitute for the much larger strategic umbrella spread over our NATO Allies . Rather , it provides a vital link between conventional shorter range nuclear forces in Europe and intercontinental forces in the United States . Deployment of these systems will demonstrate to the Soviet Union that this link cannot be broken . Deterring war depends on the perceived ability of our forces to perform effectively . The more effective our forces are , the less likely it is that we will have to use them . So , we and our allies are proceeding to modernize NATO s nuclear forces of intermediate range to meet increased Soviet deployments of nuclear systems threatening Western Europe . Let me turn now to our hopes for arms control negotiations . There is a tendency to make this entire subject overly complex . I want to be clear and concise . I told you of the letter I wrote to President Brezhnev last April . Well , I have just sent another message to the Soviet leadership . It is a simple , straightforward , yet , historic message . The United States proposes the mutual reduction of conventional intermediate range nuclear and strategic forces . Specifically , I have proposed a four point agenda to achieve this objective in my letter to President Brezhnev . The first and most important point concerns the Geneva negotiations . As part of the 1979 two track decision , NATO made a commitment to seek arms control negotiations with the Soviet Union on intermediate range nuclear forces . The United States has been preparing for these negotiations through close consultation with our NATO partners . We are now ready to set forth our proposal . I have informed President Brezhnev that when our delegation travels to the negotiations on intermediate range , land based nuclear missiles in Geneva on the 30th of this month , my representatives will present the following proposal The United States is prepared to cancel its deployment of Pershing II and ground launch cruise missiles if the Soviets will dismantle their SS 20 , SS 4 , and SS 5 missiles . This would be an historic step . With Soviet agreement , we could together substantially reduce the dread threat of nuclear war which hangs over the people of Europe . This , like the first footstep on the Moon , would be a giant step for mankind . Now , we intend to negotiate in good faith and go to Geneva willing to listen to and consider the proposals of our Soviet counterparts , but let me call to your attention the background against which our proposal is made . During the past 6 years while the United States deployed no new intermediate range missiles and withdrew 1 , 000 nuclear warheads from Europe , the Soviet Union deployed 750 warheads on mobile , accurate ballistic missiles . They now have 1 , 100 warheads on the SS 20s , SS 4s and 5s . And the United States has no comparable missiles . Indeed , the United States dismantled the last such missile in Europe over 15 years ago . As we look to the future of the negotiations , it is also important to address certain Soviet claims , which left unrefuted could become critical barriers to real progress in arms control . The Soviets assert that a balance of intermediate range nuclear forces already exists . That assertion is wrong . By any objective measure , as this chart indicates , the Soviet Union has developed an increasingly overwhelming advantage . They now enjoy a superiority on the order of six to one . The red is the Soviet buildup the blue is our own . That is 1975 , and that is 1981 . Now , Soviet spokesmen have suggested that moving their SS 20s behind the Ural Mountains will remove the threat to Europe . Well , as this map demonstrates , the SS 20s , even if deployed behind the Urals , will have a range that puts almost all of Western Europe the great cities Rome , Athens , Paris , London , Brussels , Amsterdam , Berlin , and so many more all of Scandinavia , all of the Middle East , all of northern Africa , all within range of these missiles which , incidentally , are mobile and can be moved on shorter notice . These little images mark the present location which would give them a range clear out into the Atlantic . The second proposal that I have made to President Brezhnev concerns strategic weapons . The United States proposes to open negotiations on strategic arms as soon as possible next year . I have instructed Secretary Haig to discuss the timing of such meetings with Soviet representatives . Substance , however , is far more important than timing . As our proposal for the Geneva talks this month illustrates , we can make proposals for genuinely serious reductions , but only if we take the time to prepare carefully . The United States has been preparing carefully for resumption of strategic arms negotiations because we do not want a repetition of past disappointments . We do not want an arms control process that sends hopes soaring only to end in dashed expectations . Now , I have informed President Brezhnev that we will seek to negotiate substantial reductions in nuclear arms which would result in levels that are equal and verifiable . Our approach to verification will be to emphasize openness and creativity , rather than the secrecy and suspicion which have undermined confidence in arms control in the past . While we can hope to benefit from work done over the past decade in strategic arms negotiations , let us agree to do more than simply begin where these previous efforts left off . We can and should attempt major qualitative and quantitative progress . Only such progress can fulfill the hopes of our own people and the rest of the world . And let us see how far we can go in achieving truly substantial reductions in our strategic arsenals . To symbolize this fundamental change in direction , we will call these negotiations STABT Strategic Arms Reduction Talks . The third proposal I have made to the Soviet Union is that we act to achieve equality at lower levels of conventional forces in Europe . The defense needs of the Soviet Union hardly call for maintaining more combat divisions in East Germany today than were in the whole Allied invasion force that landed in Normandy on D Day . The Soviet Union could make no more convincing contribution to peace in Europe , and in the world , than by agreeing to reduce its conventional forces significantly and constrain the potential for sudden aggression . Finally , I have pointed out to President Brezhnev that to maintain peace we must reduce the risks of surprise attack and the chance of war arising out of uncertainty or miscalculation . I am renewing our proposal for a conference to develop effective measures that would reduce these dangers . At the current Madrid meeting of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe , we are laying the foundation for a Western proposed conference on disarmament in Europe . This conference would discuss new measures to enhance stability and security in Europe . Agreement in this conference is within reach . I urge the Soviet Union to join us and many other nations who are ready to launch this important enterprise . All of these proposals are based on the same fair minded principles substantial , militarily significant reduction in forces , equal ceilings for similar types of forces , and adequate provisions for verification . My administration , our country , and I are committed to achieving arms reductions agreements based on these principles . Today I have outlined the kinds of bold , equitable proposals which the world expects of us . But we cannot reduce arms unilaterally . Success can only come if the Soviet Union will share our commitment , if it will demonstrate that its often repeated professions of concern for peace will be matched by positive action . Preservation of peace in Europe and the pursuit of arms reduction talks are of fundamental importance . But we must also help to bring peace and security to regions now torn by conflict , external intervention , and war . The American concept of peace goes well beyond the absence of war . We foresee a flowering of economic growth and individual liberty in a world at peace . At the economic summit conference in Cancun , I met with the leaders of 21 nations and sketched out our approach to global economic growth . We want to eliminate the barriers to trade and investment which hinder these critical incentives to growth , and we are working to develop new programs to help the poorest nations achieve self sustaining growth . And terms like peace and security , we have to say , have little meaning for the oppressed and the destitute . They also mean little to the individual whose state has stripped him of human freedom and dignity . Wherever there is oppression , we must strive for the peace and security of individuals as well as states . We must recognize that progress and the pursuit of liberty is a necessary complement to military security . Nowhere has this fundamental truth been more boldly and clearly stated than in the Helsinki Accords of 1975 . These accords have not yet been translated into living reality . Today I have announced an agenda that can help to achieve peace , security , and freedom across the globe . In particular , I have made an important offer to forego entirely deployment of new American missiles in Europe if the Soviet Union is prepared to respond on an equal footing . There is no reason why people in any part of the world should have to live in permanent fear of war or its spectre . I believe the time has come for all nations to act in a responsible spirit that does not threaten other states . I believe the time is right to move forward on arms control and the resolution of critical regional disputes at the conference table . Nothing will have a higher priority for me and for the American people over the coming months and years . Addressing the United Nations 20 years ago , another American President described the goal that we still pursue today . He said , If we all can persevere , if we can look beyond our shores and ambitions , then surely the age will dawn in which the strong are just and the weak secure and the peace preserved . He did not live to see that goal achieved . I invite all nations to join with America today in the quest for such a world . Thank you .<speech_sep>Senator Hatfield , Chief Justice , President , Vice President Bush , Vice President Mondale , Senator Baker , Speaker O Neill , Reverend Moomaw , and my fellow citizens To a few of us here today this is a solemn and most momentous occasion , and yet in the history of our nation it is a commonplace occurrence . The orderly transfer of authority as called for in the Constitution routinely takes place , as it has for almost two centuries , and few of us stop to think how unique we really are . In the eyes of ma in the world , this every 4 year ceremony we accept as normal is nothing less than a miracle . President , I want our fellow citizens to know how much you did to carry on this tradition . By your gracious cooperation in the transition process , you have shown a watching world that we are a united people pledged to maintaining a political system which guarantees individual liberty to a greater degree than any other , and I thank you and your people for all your help in maintaining the continuity which is the bulwark of our Republic . The business of our nation goes forward . These United States are confronted with an economic affliction of great proportions . We suffer from the longest and one of the worst sustained inflations in our national history . It distorts our economic decisions , penalizes thrift , and crushes the struggling young and the fixed income elderly alike . It threatens to shatter the lives of millions of our people . Idle industries have cast workers into unemployment , human misery , and personal indignity . Those who do work are denied a fair return for their labor by a tax system which penalizes successful achievement and keeps us from maintaining full productivity . But great as our tax burden is , it has not kept pace with public spending . For decades we have piled deficit upon deficit , mortgaging our future and our children s future for the temporary convenience of the present . To continue this long trend is to guarantee tremendous social , cultural , political , and economic upheavals . You and as individuals , can , by borrowing , live beyond our means , but for only a limited period of time . Why , then , should we think that collectively , as a nation , we are not bound by that same limitation We must act today in order to preserve tomorrow . And let there be no misunderstanding We are going to begin to act , beginning today . The economic ills we suffer have come upon us over several decades . They will not go away in days , weeks , or months , but they will go away . They will go away because we as Americans have the capacity now , as we have had in the past , to do whatever needs to be done to preserve this last and greatest bastion of freedom . In this present crisis , government is not the solution to our problem government is the problem . From time to time we have been tempted to believe that society has become too complex to be managed by self rule , that government by an elite group is superior to government for , by , and of the people . Well , if no one among us is capable of governing himself , then who among us has the capacity to govern someone else All of us together , in and out of government , must bear the burden . The solutions we seek must be equitable , with no one group singled out to pay a higher price . We hear much of special interest groups . Well , our concern must be for a special interest group that has been too long neglected . It knows no sectional boundaries or ethnic and racial divisions , and it crosses political party lines . It is made up of men and women who raise our food , patrol our streets , man our mines and factories , teach our children , keep our homes , and heal us when we are sick professionals , industrialists , shopkeepers , clerks , cabbies , and truckdrivers . They are , in short , We the people , this breed called Americans . Well , this administration s objective will be a healthy , vigorous , growing economy that provides equal opportunities for all Americans with no barriers born of bigotry or discrimination . Putting America back to work means putting all Americans back to work . Ending inflation means freeing all Americans from the terror of runaway living costs . All must share in the productive work of this new beginning , and all must share in the bounty of a revived economy . With the idealism and fair play which are the core of our system and our strength , we can have a strong and prosperous America , at peace with itself and the world . So , as we begin , let us take inventory . We are a nation that has a government not the other way around . And this makes us special among the nations of the Earth . Our government has no power except that granted it by the people . It is time to check and reverse the growth of government , which shows signs of having grown beyond the consent of the governed . It is my intention to curb the size and influence of the Federal establishment and to demand recognition of the distinction between the powers granted to the Federal Government and those reserved to the States or to the people . All of us need to be reminded that the Federal Government did not create the States the States created the Federal Government . Now , so there will be no misunderstanding , it is not my intention to do away with government . It is rather to make it work work with us , not over us to stand by our side , not ride on our back . Government can and must provide opportunity , not smother it foster productivity , not stifle it . If we look to the answer as to why for so many years we achieved so much , prospered as no other people on Earth , it was because here in this land we unleashed the energy and individual genius of man to a greater extent than has ever been done before . Freedom and the dignity of the individual have been more available and assured here than in any other place on Earth . The price for this freedom at times has been high , but we have never been unwilling to pay that price . It is no coincidence that our present troubles parallel and are proportionate to the intervention and intrusion in our lives that result from unnecessary and excessive growth of government . It is time for us to realize that we are too great a nation to limit ourselves to small dreams . We are not , as some would have us believe , doomed to an inevitable decline . I do not believe in a fate that will fall on us no matter what we do . I do believe in a fate that will fall on us if we do nothing . So , with all the creative energy at our command , let us begin an era of national renewal . Let us renew our determination , our courage , and our strength . And let us renew our faith and our hope . We have every right to dream heroic dreams . Those who say that we are in a time when there are not heroes , they just do not know where to look . You can see heroes every day going in and out of factory gates . Others , a handful in number , produce enough food to feed all of us and then the world beyond . You meet heroes across a counter , and they are on both sides of that counter . There are entrepreneurs with faith in themselves and faith in an idea who create new jobs , new wealth and opportunity . They are individuals and families whose taxes support the government and whose voluntary gifts support church , charity , culture , art , and education . Their patriotism is quiet , but deep . Their values sustain our national life . Now , I have used the words they and their in speaking of these heroes . I could say you and your , because I am addressing the heroes of whom I speak you , the citizens of this blessed land . Your dreams , your hopes , your goals are going to be the dreams , the hopes , and the goals of this administration , so help me God . We shall reflect the compassion that is so much a part of your makeup . How can we love our country and not love our countrymen and loving them , reach out a hand when they fall , heal them when they are sick , and provide opportunity to make them self sufficient so they will be equal in fact and not just in theory Can we solve the problems confronting us Well , the answer is an unequivocal and emphatic yes . To paraphrase Winston Churchill , I did not take the oath I have just taken with the intention of presiding over the dissolution of the world s strongest economy . In the days ahead I will propose removing the roadblocks that have slowed our economy and reduced productivity . Steps will be taken aimed at restoring the balance between the various levels of government . Progress may be slow , measured in inches and feet , not miles , but we will progress . It is time to reawaken this industrial giant , to get government back within its means , and to lighten our punitive tax burden . And these will be our first priorities , and on these principles there will be no compromise . On the eve of our struggle for independence a man who might have been one of the greatest among the Founding Fathers , Joseph Warren , president of the Massachusetts Congress , said to his fellow Americans , Our country is in danger , but not to be despaired of . . . . On you depend the fortunes of America . You are to decide the important questions upon which rests the happiness and the liberty of millions yet unborn . Act worthy of yourselves . Well , I believe we , the Americans of today , are ready to act worthy of ourselves , ready to do what must be done to ensure happiness and liberty for ourselves , our children , and our children s children . And as we renew ourselves here in our own land , we will be seen as having greater strength throughout the world . We will again be the exemplar of freedom and a beacon of hope for those who do not now have freedom . To those neighbors and allies who share our freedom , we will strengthen our historic ties and assure them of our support and firm commitment . We will match loyalty with loyalty . We will strive for mutually beneficial relations . We will not use our friendship to impose on their sovereignty , for our own sovereignty is not for sale . As for the enemies of freedom , those who are potential adversaries , they will be reminded that peace is the highest aspiration of the American people . We will negotiate for it , sacrifice for it we will not surrender for it , now or ever . Our forbearance should never be misunderstood . Our reluctance for conflict should not be misjudged as a failure of will . When action is required to preserve our national security , we will act . We will maintain sufficient strength to prevail if need be , knowing that if we do so we have the best chance of never having to use that strength . Above all , we must realize that no arsenal or no weapon in the arsenals of the world is so formidable as the will and moral courage of free men and women . It is a weapon our adversaries in today s world do not have . It is a weapon that we as Americans do have . Let that be understood by those who practice terrorism and prey upon their neighbors . I am told that tens of thousands of prayer meetings are being held on this day , and for that I am deeply grateful . We are a nation under God , and I believe God intended for us to be free . It would be fitting and good , I think , if on each Inaugural Day in future years it should be declared a day of prayer . This is the first time in our history that this ceremony has been held , as you have been told , on this West Front of the Capitol . Standing here , one faces a magnificent vista , opening up on this city s special beauty and history . At the end of this open mall are those shrines to the giants on whose shoulders we stand . Directly in front of me , the monument to a monumental man , George Washington , father of our country . A man of humility who came to greatness reluctantly . He led America out of revolutionary victory into infant nationhood . Off to one side , the stately memorial to Thomas Jefferson . The Declaration of Independence flames with his eloquence . And then , beyond the Reflecting Pool , the dignified columns of the Lincoln Memorial . Whoever would understand in his heart the meaning of America will find it in the life of Abraham Lincoln . Beyond those monuments to heroism is the Potomac River , and on the far shore the sloping hills of Arlington National Cemetery , with its row upon row of simple white markers bearing crosses or Stars of David . They add up to only a tiny fraction of the price that has been paid for our freedom . Each one of those markers is a monument to the kind of hero I spoke of earlier . Their lives ended in places called Belleau Wood , The Argonne , Omaha Beach , Salerno , and halfway around the world on Guadalcanal , Tarawa , Pork Chop Hill , the Chosin Reservoir , and in a hundred rice paddies and jungles of a place called Vietnam . Under one such marker lies a young man , Martin Treptow , who left his job in a small town barbershop in 1917 to go to France with the famed Rainbow Division . There , on the western front , he was killed trying to carry a message between battalions under heavy artillery fire . We are told that on his body was found a diary . On the flyleaf under the heading , My Pledge , he had written these words America must win this war . Therefore I will work , I will save , I will sacrifice , I will endure , I will fight cheerfully and do my utmost , as if the issue of the whole struggle depended on me alone . The crisis we are facing today does not require of us the kind of sacrifice that Martin Treptow and so many thousands of others were called upon to make . It does require , however , our best effort and our willingness to believe in ourselves and to believe in our capacity to perform great deeds , to believe that together with God s help we can and will resolve the problems which now confront us . And after all , why should not we believe that We are Americans . God bless you , and thank you .<speech_sep>Thank you very much , thank you . Please be seated . Those who live today remember those who do not . Those who know freedom remember today those who gave up life for freedom . Today , in honor of the dead , we conduct ceremonies . We lay wreaths . We speak words of tribute . And in our memories , in our hearts , we hold them close to us still . Yet we also know , even as their families knew when they last looked upon them , that they can never be fully ours again , that they belong now to God and to that for which they so selflessly made a final and eternal act of devotion . We could not forget them . Even if they were not our own , we could not forget them . For all time , they are what we can only aspire to be giving , unselfish , the epitome of human love to lay down one s life so that others might live . We think on their lives . We think on their final moments . In our mind s eye , we see young Americans in a European forest or on an Asian island or at sea or in aerial combat . And as life expired , we know that those who could had last thoughts of us and of their love for us . As they thought of us then , so , too , we think of them now , with love , with devotion , and with faith the certainty that what they died for was worthy of their sacrifice faith , too , in God and in the Nation that has pledged itself to His work and to the dream of human freedom , and a nation , too , that today and always pledges itself to their eternal memory . Thank you . God bless you .<speech_sep>Speaker , President , distinguished Members of Congress , honored guests , and fellow citizens May I congratulate all of you who are Members of this historic 100th Congress of the United States of America . In this 200th anniversary year of our Constitution , you and I stand on the shoulders of giants men whose words and deeds put wind in the sails of freedom . However , we must always remember that our Constitution is to be celebrated not for being old , but for being young young with the same energy , spirit , and promise that filled each eventful day in Philadelphia s statehouse . We will be guided tonight by their acts , and we will be guided forever by their words . Now , forgive me , but I cannot resist sharing a story from those historic days . Philadelphia was bursting with civic pride in the spring of 1787 , and its newspapers began embellishing the arrival of the Convention delegates with elaborate social classifications . Governors of States were called Excellency . Justices and Chancellors had reserved for them honorable with a capital H . For Congressmen , it was honorable with a small h . And all others were referred to as the following respectable characters . Well , for this 100th Congress , I invoke special executive powers to declare that each of you must never be titled less than honorable with a capital H . Incidentally , I am delighted you are celebrating the 100th birthday of the Congress . It is always a pleasure to congratulate someone with more birthdays than I have had . Now , there is a new face at this place of honor tonight . And please join me in warm congratulations to the Speaker of the House , Jim Wright . Speaker , you might recall a similar situation in your very first session of Congress 32 years ago . Then , as now , the speakership had changed hands and another great son of Texas , Sam Rayburn Sam sat in your chair . I cannot find better words than those used by President Eisenhower that evening . He said , We shall have much to do together I am sure that we will get it done and that we shall do it in harmony and good will . Tonight I renew that pledge . To you , Speaker , and to Senate Majority Leader Robert Byrd , who brings 34 years of distinguished service to the Congress , may I say Though there are changes in the Congress , America s interests remain the same . And I am confident that , along with Republican leaders Bob Michel and Bob Dole , this Congress can make history . Six years ago I was here to ask the Congress to join me in America s new beginning . Well , the results are something of which we can all be proud . Our inflation rate is now the lowest in a quarter of a century . The prime interest rate has fallen from the 21 1 2 percent the month before we took office to 7 1 2 percent today . And those rates have triggered the most housing starts in 8 years . The unemployment rate still too high is the lowest in nearly 7 years , and our people have created nearly 13 million new jobs . Over 61 percent of everyone over the age of 16 , male and female , is employed the highest percentage on record . Let us roll up our sleeves and go to work and put America s economic engine at full throttle . We can also be heartened by our progress across the world . Most important , America is at peace tonight , and freedom is on the march . And we have done much these past years to restore our defenses , our alliances , and our leadership in the world . Our sons and daughters in the services once again wear their uniforms with pride . But though we have made much progress , I have one major regret I took a risk with regard to our action in Iran . It did not work , and for that I assume full responsibility . The goals were worthy . I do not believe it was wrong to try to establish contacts with a country of strategic importance or to try to save lives . And certainly it was not wrong to try to secure freedom for our citizens held in barbaric captivity . But we did not achieve what we wished , and serious mistakes were made in trying to do so . We will get to the bottom of this , and I will take whatever action is called for . But in debating the past , we must not deny ourselves the successes of the future . Let it never be said of this generation of Americans that we became so obsessed with failure that we refused to take risks that could further the cause of peace and freedom in the world . Much is at stake here , and the Nation and the world are watching to see if we go forward together in the national interest or if we let partisanship weaken us . And let there be no mistake about American policy We will not sit idly by if our interests or our friends in the Middle East are threatened , nor will we yield to terrorist blackmail . And now , ladies and gentlemen of the Congress , why do not we get to work I am pleased to report that because of our efforts to rebuild the strength of America , the world is a safer place . Earlier this month I submitted a budget to defend America and maintain our momentum to make up for neglect in the last decade . Well , I ask you to vote out a defense and foreign affairs budget that says yes to protecting our country . While the world is safer , it is not safe . Since 1970 the Soviets have invested 500 billion more on their military forces than we have . Even today , though nearly 1 in 3 Soviet families is without running hot water and the average family spends 2 hours a day shopping for the basic necessities of life , their government still found the resources to transfer 75 billion in weapons to client states in the past 5 years clients like Syria , Vietnam , Cuba , Libya , Angola , Ethiopia , Afghanistan , and Nicaragua . With 120 , 000 Soviet combat and military personnel and 15 , 000 military advisers in Asia , Africa , and Latin America , can anyone still doubt their single minded determination to expand their power Despite this , the Congress cut my request for critical security assistance to free nations by 21 percent this year , and cut defense requests by 85 billion in the last 3 years . These assistance programs serve our national interests as well as mutual interests . And when the programs are devastated , American interests are harmed . My friends , it is my duty as President to say to you again tonight that there is no surer way to lose freedom than to lose our resolve . Today the brave people of Afghanistan are showing that resolve . The Soviet Union says it wants a peaceful settlement in Afghanistan , yet it continues a brutal war and props up a regime whose days are clearly numbered . We are ready to support a political solution that guarantees the rapid withdrawal of all Soviet troops and genuine self determination for the Afghan people . In Central America , too , the cause of freedom is being tested . And our resolve is being tested there as well . Here , especially , the world is watching to see how this nation responds . Today over 90 percent of the people of Latin America live in democracy . Democracy is on the march in Central and South America . Communist Nicaragua is the odd man out suppressing the church , the press , and democratic dissent and promoting subversion in the region . We support diplomatic efforts , but these efforts can never succeed if the Sandinistas win their war against the Nicaraguan people . Our commitment to a Western Hemisphere safe from aggression did not occur by spontaneous generation on the day that we took office . It began with the Monroe Doctrine in 1823 and continues our historic bipartisan American policy . Franklin Roosevelt said we are determined to do everything possible to maintain peace on this hemisphere . President Truman was very blunt International communism seeks to crush and undermine and destroy the independence of the Americas . We cannot let that happen here . And John Kennedy made clear that Communist domination in this hemisphere can never be negotiated . Some in this Congress may choose to depart from this historic commitment , but I will not . This year we celebrate the second century of our Constitution . The Sandinistas just signed theirs two weeks ago , and then suspended it . We will not know how my words tonight will be reported there for one simple reason There is no free press in Nicaragua . Nicaraguan freedom fighters have never asked us to wage their battle , but I will fight any effort to shut off their lifeblood and consign them to death , defeat , or a life without freedom . There must be no Soviet beachhead in Central America . You know , we Americans have always preferred dialog to conflict , and so , we always remain open to more constructive relations with the Soviet Union . But more responsible Soviet conduct around the world is a key element of the S . Soviet agenda . Progress is also required on the other items of our agenda as well real respect for human rights and more open contacts between our societies and , of course , arms reduction . In Iceland , last October , we had one moment of opportunity that the Soviets dashed because they sought to cripple our Strategic Defense Initiative , SDI would not let them do it then I will not let them do it now or in the future . This is the most positive and promising defense program we have undertaken . It is the path , for both sides , to a safer future a system that defends human life instead of threatening it . SDI will go forward . The United States has made serious , fair , and far reaching proposals to the Soviet Union , and this is a moment of rare opportunity for arms reduction . But I will need , and American negotiators in Geneva will need , Congress support . Enacting the Soviet negotiating position into American law would not be the way to win a good agreement . So , I must tell you in this Congress I will veto any effort that undercuts our national security and our negotiating leverage . Now , today , we also find ourselves engaged in expanding peaceful commerce across the world . We will work to expand our opportunities in international markets through the Uruguay round of trade negotiations and to complete an historic free trade arrangement between the world s two largest trading partners , Canada and the United States . Our basic trade policy remains the same We remain opposed as ever to protectionism , because America s growth and future depend on trade . But we would insist on trade that is fair and free . We are always willing to be trade partners but never trade patsies . Now , from foreign borders let us return to our own , because America in the world is only as strong as America at home . This 100th Congress has high responsibilities . I begin with a gentle reminder that many of these are simply the incomplete obligations of the past . The American people deserve to be impatient , because we do not yet have the public house in order . We have had great success in restoring our economic integrity , and we have rescued our nation from the worst economic mess since the Depression . But there is more to do . For starters , the Federal deficit is outrageous . For years I have asked that we stop pushing onto our children the excesses of our government . And what the Congress finally needs to do is pass a constitutional amendment that mandates a balanced budget and forces government to live within its means . States , cities , and the families of America balance their budgets . Why cannot we Next , the budget process is a sorry spectacle . The missing of deadlines and the nightmare of monstrous continuing resolutions packing hundreds of billions of dollars of spending into one bill must be stopped . We ask the Congress once again Give us the same tool that 43 Governors have a lineitem veto so we can carve out the boondoggles and pork , those items that would never survive on their own . I will send the Congress broad recommendations on the budget , but first I had like to see yours . Let us go to work and get this done together . But now let us talk about this year s budget . Even though I have submitted it within the Gramm Rudman Hollings deficit reduction target , I have seen suggestions that we might postpone that timetable . Well , I think the American people are tired of hearing the same old excuses . Together we made a commitment to balance the budget . Now let us keep it . As for those suggestions that the answer is higher taxes , the American people have repeatedly rejected that shop worn advice . They know that we do not have deficits because people are taxed too little . We have deficits because big government spends too much . Now , next month I will place two additional reforms before the Congress . We have created a welfare monster that is a shocking indictment of our sense of priorities . Our national welfare system consists of some 59 major programs and over 6 , 000 pages of Federal laws and regulations on which more than 132 billion was spent in 1985 . I will propose a new national welfare strategy , a program of welfare reform through State sponsored , community based demonstration projects . This is the time to reform this outmoded social dinosaur and finally break the poverty trap . Now , we will never abandon those who , through no fault of their own , must have our help . But let us work to see how many can be freed from the dependency of welfare and made self supporting , which the great majority of welfare recipients want more than anything else . Next , let us remove a financial specter facing our older Americans the fear of an illness so expensive that it can result in having to make an intolerable choice between bankruptcy and death . I will submit legislation shortly to help free the elderly from the fear of catastrophic illness . Now let us turn to the future . It is widely said that America is losing her competitive edge . Well , that will not happen if we act now . How well prepared are we to enter the 21st century In my lifetime , America set the standard for the world . It is now time to determine that we should enter the next century having achieved a level of excellence unsurpassed in history . We will achieve this , first , by guaranteeing that government does everything possible to promote America s ability to compete . Second , we must act as individuals in a quest for excellence that will not be measured by new proposals or billions in new funding . Rather , it involves an expenditure of American spirit and just plain American grit . The Congress will soon receive my comprehensive proposals to enhance our competitiveness , including new science and technology centers and strong new funding for basic research . The bill will include legal and regulatory reforms and weapons to fight unfair trade practices . Competitiveness also means giving our farmers a shot at participating fairly and fully in a changing world market . Preparing for the future must begin , as always , with our children . We need to set for them new and more rigorous goals . We must demand more of ourselves and our children by raising literacy levels dramatically by the year 2000 . Our children should master the basic concepts of math and science , and let us insist that students not leave high school until they have studied and understood the basic documents of our national heritage . There is one more thing we cannot let up on Let us redouble our personal efforts to provide for every child a safe and drug free learning environment . If our crusade against drugs succeeds with our children , we will defeat that scourge all over the country . Finally , let us stop suppressing the spiritual core of our national being . Our nation could not have been conceived without divine help . Why is it that we can build a nation with our prayers , but we cannot use a schoolroom for voluntary prayer The 100th Congress of the United States should be remembered as the one that ended the expulsion of God from America s classrooms . The quest for excellence into the 21st century begins in the schoolroom but must go next to the workplace . More than 20 million new jobs will be created before the new century unfolds , and by then , our economy should be able to provide a job for everyone who wants to work . We must also enable our workers to adapt to the rapidly changing nature of the workplace . And I will propose substantial , new Federal commitments keyed to retraining and job mobility . Over the next few weeks , I will be sending the Congress a complete series of these special messages on budget reform , welfare reform , competitiveness , including education , trade , worker training and assistance , agriculture , and other subjects . The Congress can give us these tools , but to make these tools work , it really comes down to just being our best . And that is the core of American greatness . The responsibility of freedom presses us towards higher knowledge and , I believe , moral and spiritual greatness . Through lower taxes and smaller government , government has its ways of freeing people s spirits . But only we , each of us , can let the spirit soar against our own individual standards . Excellence is what makes freedom ring . And is not that what we do best We are entering our third century now , but it is wrong to judge our nation by its years . The calendar cannot measure America because we were meant to be an endless experiment in freedom with no limit to our reaches , no boundaries to what we can do , no end point to our hopes . The United States Constitution is the impassioned and inspired vehicle by which we travel through history . It grew out of the most fundamental inspiration of our existence that we are here to serve Him by living free that living free releases in us the noblest of impulses and the best of our abilities that we would use these gifts for good and generous purposes and would secure them not just for ourselves and for our children but for all mankind . Over the years I will not count if you do not nothing has been so heartwarming to me as speaking to America s young , and the little ones especially , so fresh faced and so eager to know . Well , from time to time I have been with them they will ask about our Constitution . And I hope you Members of Congress will not deem this a breach of protocol if you will permit me to share these thoughts again with the young people who might be listening or watching this evening . I have read the constitutions of a number of countries , including the Soviet Union s . Now , some people are surprised to hear that they have a constitution , and it even supposedly grants a number of freedoms to its people . Many countries have written into their constitution provisions for freedom of speech and freedom of assembly . Well , if this is true , why is the Constitution of the United States so exceptional Well , the difference is so small that it almost escapes you , but it is so great it tells you the whole story in just three words We the people . In those other constitutions , the Government tells the people of those countries what they are allowed to do . In our Constitution , we the people tell the Government what it can do , and it can do only those things listed in that document and no others . Virtually every other revolution in history has just exchanged one set of rulers for another set of rulers . Our revolution is the first to say the people are the masters and government is their servant . And you young people out there , do not ever forget that . Someday you could be in this room , but wherever you are , America is depending on you to reach your highest and be your best because here in America , we the people are in charge . Just three words We the people those are the kids on Christmas Day looking out from a frozen sentry post on the 38th parallel in Korea or aboard an aircraft carrier in the Mediterranean . A million miles from home , but doing their duty . We the people those are the warmhearted whose numbers we cannot begin to count , who will begin the day with a little prayer for hostages they will never know and MIA families they will never meet . Why Because that is the way we are , this unique breed we call Americans . We the people they are farmers on tough times , but who never stop feeding a hungry world . They are the volunteers at the hospital choking back their tears for the hundredth time , caring for a baby struggling for life because of a mother who used drugs . And you will forgive me a special memory it is a million mothers like Nelle Reagan who never knew a stranger or turned a hungry person away from her kitchen door . We the people they refute last week s television commentary downgrading our optimism and our idealism . They are the entrepreneurs , the builders , the pioneers , and a lot of regular folks the true heroes of our land who make up the most uncommon nation of doers in history . You know they are Americans because their spirit is as big as the universe and their hearts are bigger than their spirits . We the people starting the third century of a dream and standing up to some cynic who is trying to tell us we are not going to get any better . Are we at the end Well , I cannot tell it any better than the real thing a story recorded by James Madison from the final moments of the Constitutional Convention , September 17th , 1787 . As the last few members signed the document , Benjamin Franklin the oldest delegate at 81 years and in frail health looked over toward the chair where George Washington daily presided . At the back of the chair was painted the picture of a Sun on the horizon . And turning to those sitting next to him , Franklin observed that artists found it difficult in their painting to distinguish between a rising and a setting Sun . Well , I know if we were there , we could see those delegates sitting around Franklin leaning in to listen more closely to him . And then Franklin began to share his deepest hopes and fears about the outcome of their efforts , and this is what he said I have often looked at that picture behind the President without being able to tell whether it was a rising or setting Sun But now at length I have the happiness to know that it is a rising and not a setting Sun . Well , you can bet it is rising because , my fellow citizens , America is not finished . Her best days have just begun . Thank you , God bless you , and God bless America .<speech_sep>