Speaker , Vice President , members of the 94th Congress , and distinguished guests Twenty six years ago , a freshman Congressman , a young fellow with lots of idealism who was out to change the world , stood before Sam Rayburn in the well of the House and solemnly swore to the same oath that all of you took yesterday an unforgettable experience , and I congratulate you all . Two days later , that same freshman stood at the back of this great chamber over there someplace as President Truman , all charged up by his single handed election victory , reported as the Constitution requires on the state of the Union . When the bipartisan applause stopped , President Truman said , I am happy to report to this 81st Congress that the state of the Union is good . Our nation is better able than ever before to meet the needs of the American people , and to give them their fair chance in the pursuit of happiness . is foremost among the nations of the world in the search for peace . Today , that freshman member from Michigan stands where Truman stood , and I must say to you that the state of the Union is not good Millions of Americans are out of work . Recession and inflation are eroding the money of millions more . Prices are too high , and sales are too slow . This year s federal deficit will be about 30 billion next year s probably 45 billion . The national debt will rise to over 500 billion . Our plant capacity and productivity are not increasing fast enough . We depend on others for essential energy . Some people question their government s ability to make hard decisions and stick with them they expect Washington politics as usual . Yet , what President Truman said on January 5 , 1949 , is even more true in 1975 . We are better able to meet our people s needs . All Americans do have a fairer chance to pursue happiness . Not only are we still the foremost nation in the pursuit of peace but today s prospects of attaining it are infinitely brighter . There were 59 million Americans employed at the start of 1949 now there are more than 85 million Americans who have jobs . In comparable dollars , the average income of the American family has doubled during the past 26 years . Now , I want to speak very bluntly . I have got bad news , and I do not expect much , if any , applause . The American people want action , and it will take both the Congress and the President to give them what they want . Progress and solutions can be achieved , and they will be achieved . My message today is not intended to address all of the complex needs of America . I will send separate messages making specific recommendations for domestic legislation , such as the extension of general revenue sharing and the Voting Rights Act . The moment has come to move in a new direction . We can do this by fashioning a new partnership between the Congress on the one hand , the White House on the other , and the people we both represent . Let us mobilize the most powerful and most creative industrial nation that ever existed on this Earth to put all our people to work . The emphasis on our economic efforts must now shift from inflation to jobs . To bolster business and industry and to create new jobs , I propose a one year tax reduction of 16 billion . Three quarters would go to individuals and one quarter to promote business investment . This cash rebate to individuals amounts to 12 percent of 1974 tax payments a total cut of 12 billion , with a maximum of 1 , 000 per return . I call on the Congress to act by April 1 . If you do and I hope you will the Treasury can send the first check for half of the rebate in May and the second by September . The other one fourth of the cut , about 4 billion , will go to business , including farms , to promote expansion and to create more jobs . The one year reduction for businesses would be in the form of a liberalized investment tax credit increasing the rate to 12 percent for all businesses . This tax cut does not include the more fundamental reforms needed in our tax system . But it points us in the right direction allowing taxpayers rather than the government to spend their pay . Cutting taxes now is essential if we are to turn the economy around . A tax cut offers the best hope of creating more jobs . Unfortunately , it will increase the size of the budget deficit . Therefore , it is more important than ever that we take steps to control the growth of federal expenditures . Part of our trouble is that we have been self indulgent . For decades , we have been voting ever increasing levels of government benefits , and now the bill has come due . We have been adding so many new programs that the size and the growth of the federal budget has taken on a life of its own . One characteristic of these programs is that their cost increases automatically every year because the number of people eligible for most of the benefits increases every year . When these programs are enacted , there is no dollar amount set . No one knows what they will cost . All we know is that whatever they cost last year , they will cost more next year . It is a question of simple arithmetic . Unless we check the excessive growth of federal expenditures or impose on ourselves matching increases in taxes , we will continue to run huge inflationary deficits in the federal budget . If we project the current built in momentum of federal spending through the next 15 years , state , federal , and local government expenditures could easily comprise half of our gross national product . This compares with less than a third in 1975 . I have just concluded the process of preparing the budget submissions for fiscal year 1976 . In that budget , I will propose legislation to restrain the growth of a number of existing programs . I have also concluded that no new spending programs can be initiated this year , except for energy . Further , I will not hesitate to veto any new spending programs adopted by the Congress . As an additional step toward putting the federal government s house in order , I recommend a 5 percent limit on federal pay increases in 1975 . In all government programs tied to the Consumer Price Index including social security , civil service and military retirement pay , and food stamps I also propose a one year maximum increase of 5 percent . None of these recommended ceiling limitations , over which Congress has final authority , are easy to propose , because in most cases they involve anticipated payments to many , many deserving people . Nonetheless , it must be done . I must emphasize that I am not asking to eliminate , to reduce , to freeze these payments . I am merely recommending that we slow down the rate at which these payments increase and these programs grow . Only a reduction in the growth of spending can keep federal borrowing down and reduce the damage to the private sector from high interest rates . Only a reduction in spending can make it possible for the Federal Reserve System to avoid an inflationary growth in the money supply and thus restore balance to our economy . A major reduction in the growth of federal spending can help dispel the uncertainty that so many feel about our economy and put us on the way to curing our economic ills . If we do not act to slow down the rate of increase in federal spending , the United States Treasury will be legally obligated to spend more than 360 billion in fiscal year 1976 , even if no new programs are enacted . These are not matters of conjecture or prediction , but again , a matter of simple arithmetic . The size of these numbers and their implications for our everyday life and the health of our economic system are shocking . I submitted to the last Congress a list of budget deferrals and rescissions . There will be more cuts recommended in the budget that I will submit . Even so , the level of outlays for fiscal year 1976 is still much , much too high . Not only is it too high for this year but the decisions we make now will inevitably have a major and growing impact on expenditure levels in future years . I think this is a very fundamental issue that we , the Congress and must jointly solve . Economic disruptions we and others are experiencing stem in part from the fact that the world price of petroleum has quadrupled in the last year . But in all honesty , we cannot put all of the blame on the oil exporting nations . We , the United States , are not blameless . Our growing dependence upon foreign sources has been adding to our vulnerability for years and years , and we did nothing to prepare ourselves for such an event as the embargo of 1973 . During the 1960s , this country had a surplus capacity of crude oil which we were able to make available to our trading partners whenever there was a disruption of supply . This surplus capacity enabled us to influence both supplies and prices of crude oil throughout the world . Our excess capacity neutralized any effort at establishing an effective cartel , and thus the rest of the world was assured of adequate supplies of oil at reasonable prices . By 1970 , our surplus capacity had vanished , and as a consequence , the latent power of the oil cartel could emerge in full force . Europe and Japan , both heavily dependent on imported oil , now struggle to keep their economies in balance . Even the United States , our country , which is far more self sufficient than most other industrial countries , has been . put under serious pressure . I am proposing a program which will begin to restore our country s surplus capacity in total energy . In this way , we will be able to assure ourselves reliable and adequate energy and help foster a new world energy stability for other major consuming nations . But this nation and , in fact , the world must face the prospect of energy difficulties between now and 1985 . This program will impose burdens on all of us with the aim of reducing our consumption of energy and increasing our production . Great attention has been paid to the considerations of fairness , and I can assure you that the burdens will not fall more harshly on those less able to bear them . I am recommending a plan to make us invulnerable to cutoffs of foreign oil . It will require sacrifices , but it and this is most important it will work . I have set the following national energy goals to assure that our future is as secure and as productive as our past First , we must reduce oil imports by one million barrels per day by the end of this year and by two million barrels per day by the end of 1977 . Second , we must end vulnerability to economic disruption by foreign suppliers by 1985 . Third , we must develop our energy technology and resources so that the United States has the ability to supply a significant share of the energy needs of the free world by the end of this century . To attain these objectives , we need immediate action to cut imports . Unfortunately , in the short term there are only a limited number of actions which can increase domestic supply . I will press for all of them . I urge quick action on the necessary legislation to allow commercial production at the Elk Hills , California , Naval Petroleum Reserve . In order that we make greater use of domestic coal resources , I am submitting amendments to the Energy Supply and Environmental Coordination Act which will greatly increase the number of powerplants that can be promptly converted to coal . Obviously , voluntary conservation continues to be essential , but tougher programs are needed and needed now . Therefore , I am using Presidential powers to raise the fee on all imported crude oil and petroleum products . The crude oil fee level will be increased 1 per barrel on February 1 , by 2 per barrel on March 1 , and by 3 per barrel on April 1 . I will take actions to reduce undue hardships on any geographical region . The foregoing are interim administrative actions . They will be rescinded when the broader but necessary legislation is enacted . To that end , I am requesting the Congress to act within 90 days on a more comprehensive energy tax program . It includes excise taxes and import fees totaling 2 per barrel on product imports and on all crude oil deregulation of new natural gas and enactment of a natural gas excise tax . I plan to take Presidential initiative to decontrol the price of domestic crude oil on April 1 . I urge the Congress to enact a windfall profits tax by that date to ensure that oil producers do not profit unduly . The sooner Congress acts , the more effective the oil conservation program will be and the quicker the federal revenues can be returned to our people . I am prepared to use Presidential authority to limit imports , as necessary , to guarantee success . I want you to know that before deciding on my energy conservation program , I considered rationing and higher gasoline taxes as alternatives . In my judgment , neither would achieve the desired results and both would produce unacceptable inequities . A massive program must be initiated to increase energy supply , to cut demand , and provide new standby emergency programs to achieve the independence we want by 1985 . The largest part of increased oil production must come from new frontier areas on the Outer Continental Shelf and from the Naval Petroleum Reserve No . 4 in Alaska . It is the intent of this administration to move ahead with exploration , leasing , and production on those frontier areas of the Outer Continental Shelf where the environmental risks are acceptable . Use of our most abundant domestic resource coal is severely limited . We must strike a reasonable compromise on environmental concerns with coal . I am submitting Clean Air amendments which will allow greater coal use without sacrificing clean air goals . I vetoed the strip mining legislation passed by the last Congress . With appropriate changes , I will sign a revised version when it comes to the White House . I am proposing a number of actions to energize our nuclear power program . I will submit legislation to expedite nuclear leasing and the rapid selection of sites . In recent months , utilities have cancelled or postponed over 60 percent of planned nuclear expansion and 30 percent of planned additions to non nuclear capacity . Financing problems for that industry are worsening . I am therefore recommending that the one year investment tax credit of 12 percent be extended an additional two years to specifically speed the construction of powerplants that do not use natural gas or oil . I am also submitting proposals for selective reform of state utility commission regulations . To provide the critical stability for our domestic energy production in the face of world price uncertainty , I will request legislation to authorize and require tariffs , import quotas , or price floors to protect our energy prices at levels which will achieve energy independence . Increasing energy supplies is not enough . We must take additional steps to cut long term consumption . I therefore propose to the Congress legislation to make thermal efficiency standards mandatory for all new buildings in the United States a new tax credit of up to 150 for those homeowners who install insulation equipment the establishment of an energy conservation program to help low income families purchase insulation supplies legislation to modify and defer automotive pollution standards for five years , which will enable us to improve automobile gas mileage by 40 percent by 1980 . These proposals and actions , cumulatively , can reduce our dependence on foreign energy supplies from three to five million barrels per day by 1985 . To make the United States invulnerable to foreign disruption , I propose standby emergency legislation and a strategic storage program of one billion barrels of oil for domestic needs and 300 million barrels for national defense purposes . I will ask for the funds needed for energy research and development activities . I have established a goal of one million barrels of synthetic fuels and shale oil production per day by 1985 together with an incentive program to achieve it . I have a very deep belief in America s capabilities . Within the next 10 years , my program envisions 200 major nuclear powerplants 250 major new coal mines 150 major coal fired powerplants 30 major new refineries 20 major new synthetic fuel plants the drilling of many thousands of new oil wells the insulation of 18 million homes and the manufacturing and the sale of millions of new automobiles , trucks , and buses that use much less fuel . I happen to believe that we can do it . In another crisis the one in 1942 President Franklin Roosevelt said this country would build 60 , 000 military aircraft . By 1943 , production in that program had reached 125 , 000 aircraft annually . They did it then . We can do it now . If the Congress and the American people will work with me to attain these targets , they will be achieved and will be surpassed . From adversity , let us seize opportunity . Revenues of some 30 billion from higher energy taxes designed to encourage conservation must be refunded to the American people in a manner which corrects distortions in our tax system wrought by inflation . People have been pushed into higher tax brackets by inflation , with consequent reduction in their actual spending power . Business taxes are similarly distorted because inflation exaggerates reported profits , resulting in excessive taxes . Accordingly , I propose that future individual income taxes be reduced by 16 . 5 billion . This will be done by raising the low income allowance and reducing tax rates . This continuing tax cut will primarily benefit lower and middle income taxpayers . For example , a typical family of four with a gross income of 5 , 600 now pays 185 in federal income taxes . Under this tax cut plan , they would pay nothing . A family of four with a gross income of 12 , 500 now pays 1 , 260 in federal taxes . My proposal reduces that total by 300 . Families grossing 20 , 000 would receive a reduction of 210 . Those with the very lowest incomes , who can least afford higher costs , must also be compensated . I propose a payment of 80 to every person 18 years of age and older in that very limited category . State and local governments will receive 2 billion in additional revenue sharing to offset their increased energy costs . To offset inflationary distortions and to generate more economic activity , the corporate tax rate will be reduced from 48 percent to 42 percent . Now let me turn , if I might , to the international dimension of the present crisis . At no time in our peacetime history has the state of the nation depended more heavily on the state of the world . And seldom , if ever , has the state of the world depended more heavily on the state of our nation . The economic distress is global . We will not solve it at home unless we help to remedy the profound economic dislocation abroad . World trade and monetary structure provides markets , energy , food , and vital raw materials for all nations . This international system is now in jeopardy . This nation can be proud of significant achievements in recent years in solving problems and crises . The Berlin agreement , the SALT agreements , our new relationship with China , the unprecedented efforts in the Middle East are immensely encouraging . But the world is not free from crisis . In a world of 150 nations , where nuclear technology is proliferating and regional conflicts continue , international security cannot be taken for granted . So , let there be no mistake about it International cooperation is a vital factor of our lives today . This is not a moment for the American people to turn inward . More than ever before , our own well being depends on America s determination and America s leadership in the whole wide world . We are a great nation spiritually , politically , militarily , diplomatically , and economically . America s commitment to international security has sustained the safety of allies and friends in many areas in the Middle East , in Europe , and in Asia . Our turning away would unleash new instabilities , new dangers around the globe , which , in turn , would threaten our own security . At the end of World War Iwe turned a similar challenge into an historic opportunity and , I might add , an historic achievement . An old order was in disarray political and economic institutions were shattered . In that period , this nation and its partners built new institutions , new mechanisms of mutual support and cooperation . Today , as then , we face an historic opportunity . If we act imaginatively and boldly , as we acted then , this period will in retrospect be seen as one of the great creative moments of our nation s history . The whole world is watching to see how we respond . A resurgent American economy would do more to restore the confidence of the world in its own future than anything else we can do . The program that this Congress passes can demonstrate to the world that we have started to put our own house in order . If we can show that this nation is able and willing to help other nations meet the common challenge , it can demonstrate that the United States will fulfill its responsibilities as a leader among nations . Quite frankly , at stake is the future of industrialized democracies , which have perceived their destiny in common and sustained it in common for 30 years . The developing nations are also at a turning point . The poorest nations see their hopes of feeding their hungry and developing their societies shattered by the economic crisis . The long term economic future for the producers of raw materials also depends on cooperative solutions . Our relations with the Communist countries are a basic factor of the world environment . We must seek to build a long term basis for coexistence . We will stand by our principles . We will stand by our interests . We will act firmly when challenged . The kind of a world we want depends on a broad policy of creating mutual incentives for restraint and for cooperation . As we move forward to meet our global challenges and opportunities , we must have the tools to do the job . Our military forces are strong and ready . This military strength deters aggression against our allies , stabilizes our relations with former adversaries , and protects our homeland . Fully adequate conventional and strategic forces cost many , many billions , but these dollars are sound insurance for our safety and for a more peaceful world . Military strength alone is not sufficient . Effective diplomacy is also essential in preventing conflict , in building world understanding . The Vladivostok negotiations with the Soviet Union represent a major step in moderating strategic arms competition . My recent discussions with the leaders of the Atlantic community , Japan , and South Korea have contributed to meeting the common challenge . But we have serious problems before us that require cooperation between the President and the Congress . By the Constitution and tradition , the execution of foreign policy is the responsibility of the President . In recent years , under the stress of the Vietnam War , legislative restrictions on the President s ability to execute foreign policy and military decisions have proliferated . As a member of the Congress , I opposed some and I approved others . As President , I welcome the advice and cooperation of the House and the Senate . But if our foreign policy is to be successful , we cannot rigidly restrict in legislation the ability of the President to act . The conduct of negotiations is ill suited to such limitations . Legislative restrictions , intended for the best motives and purposes , can have the opposite result , as we have seen most recently in our trade relations with the Soviet Union . For my part , I pledge this administration will act in the closest consultation with the Congress as we face delicate situations and troubled times throughout the globe . When I became President only five months ago , I promised the last Congress a policy of communication , conciliation , compromise , and cooperation . I renew that pledge to the new members of this Congress . Let me sum it up . America needs a new direction , which I have sought to chart here today a change of course which will put the unemployed back to work increase real income and production restrain the growth of federal government spending achieve energy independence and advance the cause of world understanding . We have the ability . We have the know how . In partnership with the American people , we will achieve these objectives . As our 200th anniversary approaches , we owe it to ourselves and to posterity to rebuild our political and economic strength . Let us make America once again and for centuries more to come what it has so long been a stronghold and a beacon light of liberty for the whole world . Thank you .<speech_sep>Good morning In my first week as President , I asked the Attorney General and the Secretary of Defense to report to me , after consultation with other Governmental officials and private citizens concerned , on the status of those young Americans who have been convicted , charged , investigated , or are still being sought as draft evaders or military deserters . On August 19 , at the national convention of Veterans of Foreign Wars in the city of Chicago , I announced my intention to give these young people a chance to earn their return to the mainstream of American society so that they can , if they choose , contribute , even though belatedly , to the building and the betterment of our country and the world . I did this for the simple reason that for American fighting men , the long and divisive war in Vietnam has been over for more than a year , and I was determined then , as now , to do everything in my power to bind up the Nation s wounds . I promised to throw the weight of my Presidency into the scales of justice on the side of leniency and mercy , but I promised also to work within the existing system of military and civilian law and the precedents set by my predecessors who faced similar postwar situations , among them Presidents Abraham Lincoln and Harry Truman . My objective of making future penalties fit the seriousness of each individual s offense and of mitigating punishment already meted out in a spirit of equity has proved an immensely hard and very complicated matter , even more difficult than I knew it would be . But the agencies of Government concerned and my own staff have worked with me literally night and day in order to develop fair and orderly procedures and completed their work for my final approval over this last weekend . I do not want to delay another day in resolving the dilemmas of the past , so that we may all get going on the pressing problems of the present . Therefore , I am today signing the necessary Presidential proclamation and Executive orders that will put this plan into effect . The program provides for administrative disposition of cases involving draft evaders and military deserters not yet convicted or punished . In such cases , 24 months of alternate service will be required , which may be reduced for mitigating circumstances . The program also deals with cases of those already convicted by a civilian or military court . For the latter purpose , I am establishing a clemency review board of nine distinguished Americans whose duty it will be to assist me in assuring that the Government s forgiveness is extended to applicable cases of prior conviction as equitably and as impartially as is humanly possible . The primary purpose of this program is the reconciliation of all our people and the restoration of the essential unity of Americans within which honest differences of opinion do not descend to angry discord and mutual problems are not polarized by excessive passion . My sincere hope is that this is a constructive step toward a calmer and cooler appreciation of our individual rights and responsibilities and our common purpose as a nation whose future is always more important than its past . At this point , I will sign the proclamation that I mentioned in my statement , followed by an Executive order for the establishment of the Clemency Board , followed by the signing of an Executive order for the Director of Selective Service , who will have a prime responsibility in the handling of the matters involving alternate service . Thank you very much .<speech_sep>Thank you very much , Kleinjans . Governor Ariyoshi , Senator Fong , Congressman Matsunaga , Matsuda , students , faculty , and members of the community here in Hawaii It was nice to see you , Doctor . I had the honor for a good many years of representing an area , a wonderful community , from which the Doctor came . I know more of his relatives perhaps than he does and they were always very kind to me , for which I was deeply grateful . But it is good to be home again in the United States . I have just completed , as many of you know , a 7 day trip to the State of Alaska , to the People s Republic of China , to our good friends Indonesia and the Philippines , and now I am obviously happy to be home in our 50th State , Hawaii . This morning I reflected on the past at the shrine of Americans who died on Sunday morning 34 years ago . I came away with a new spirit of dedication to the ideals that emerged from Pearl Harbor in World War II dedication to America s bipartisan policy of pursuing peace through strength and dedication to a new future of interdependence and cooperation with all peoples of the Pacific . I subscribe to a Pacific doctrine of peace with all and hostility toward none . The way I would like to remember or recollect Pearl Harbor is by preserving the power of the past to build the future . Let us join with new and old countries of that great Pacific area in creating the greatest civilization on the shores of the greatest of our oceans . My visit here to the East West Center holds another kind of meaning . Your center is a catalyst of America s positive concern for Asia , its people and its rich diversity of cultures . You advance our hope that Asia will gain a better understanding of the United States . Last year we were pleased to receive and to welcome nearly 54 , 000 Asian students to the United States , while thousands upon thousands of American students went to Asian countries . I applaud your contribution to partnership in education . Your efforts represent America s vision of an open world of understanding , freedom , and peace . In Hawaii , the crossroads of the Pacific , our past and our future join . I was deeply moved when I visited Japan last year and when I recently had the honor of welcoming the Emperor and the Empress of Japan to America . The gracious welcome that I received and the warmth of the welcome the American people bestowed upon the Emperor and the Empress testify to a growing friendship and partnership between our two great countries . This is a tribute to what is best in man his capacity to grow from fear to trust and from a tragedy of the past to a hopeful future . It is a superb example of what can be achieved in human progress . It inspires our new efforts in Asia to improve relations . America , a nation of the Pacific Basin , has a very vital stake in Asia and a responsibility to take a leading part in lessening tensions , preventing hostilities , and preserving peace . World stability and our own security depend upon our Asian commitments . In 1941 , 34 years ago today , we were militarily unprepared . Our trade in the Pacific was very limited . We exercised jurisdiction over the Philippines . We were preoccupied with Western Europe . Our instincts were isolationist . We have transcended that age . We are now the world s strongest nation . Our great commercial involvement in Asia is expanding . We led the way in conferring independence upon the Philippines . Now we are working out new associations and arrangements with the trust territories of the Pacific . The center of political power in the United States has shifted westward . Our Pacific interests and concerns have increased . We have exchanged the freedom of action of an isolationist state for the responsibilities of a great global power . As I return from this trip to three major Asian countries , I am even more aware of our interests in this part of the world . The security concerns of great world powers intersect in Asia . The United States , the Soviet Union , China , and Japan are all Pacific powers . Western Europe has historic and economic ties with Asia . Equilibrium in the Pacific is absolutely essential to the United States and to the other countries in the Pacific . The first premise of a new Pacific Doctrine is that American strength is basic to any stable balance of power in the Pacific . We must reach beyond our concern for security . But without security , there can be neither peace nor progress . The preservation of the sovereignty and the independence of our Asian friends and allies remain a paramount objective of American policy . We recognize that force alone is insufficient to assure security . Popular legitimacy and social justice are vital prerequisites of resistance against subversion or aggression . Nevertheless , we owe it to ourselves and to those whose independence depends upon our continued support to preserve a flexible and balanced position of strength throughout the Pacific . The second basic premise of a new Pacific Doctrine is that partnership with Japan is a pillar of our strategy . There is no relationship to which I have devoted more attention , nor is there any greater success story in the history of American efforts to relate to distant cultures and to people . The Japanese American relationship can be a source of great , great pride to every American and to every Japanese . Our bilateral relations have never been better . The recent exchange of visits symbolized a basic political partnership . We have begun to develop with the Japanese and other advanced industrial democracies better means of harmonizing our economic policy . We are joining with Japan , our European friends , and representatives of the developing nations this month to begin shaping a more efficient and more equitable pattern of North South economic relations . The third premise of a new Pacific Doctrine is the normalization of relations with the People s Republic of China , the strengthening of our new ties with this great nation representing nearly one quarter of mankind . This is another recent achievement of American foreign policy . It transcends 25 years of hostility . I visited China to build on the dialog started nearly 4 years ago . My wide ranging exchanges with the leaders of the People s Republic of China with Chairman Mao Tse tung and Vice Premier Teng Hsiao ping enhanced our understanding of each other s views and each other s policies . There were , as expected , differences of perspective . Our societies , our philosophies , our varying positions in the world give us differing perceptions of our respective national interests . But we did find a common ground . We reaffirmed that we share very important areas of concern and agreement . They say and we say that the countries of Asia should be free to develop in a world where there is mutual respect for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of all states where people are free from the threat of foreign aggression where there is noninterference in the internal affairs of others and where the principles of equality , mutual benefit , . and coexistence shape the development of peaceful international order . We share opposition to any form of hegemony in Asia or in any other part of the world . I reaffirmed the determination of the United States to complete the normalization of relations with the People s Republic of China on the basis of the Shanghai communique . Both sides regarded our discussions as significant , useful , and constructive . Our relationship is becoming a permanent feature of the international political landscape . It benefits not only our two peoples but all peoples of the region and the entire world . A fourth principle of our Pacific policy is our continuing stake in stability and security in Southeast Asia . After leaving China , I visited Indonesia and the Philippines . Indonesia is a nation of 140 million people , the fifth largest population in the world today . It is one of our important new friends and a major country in that area of the world . The Republic of the Philippines is one of our oldest and dearest allies . Our friendship demonstrates America s longstanding interest in Asia . I spentthree days in Djakarta and Manila . I would have liked to have had time to visit our friends in Thailand , Singapore , and Malaysia . We share important political . and economic concerns with these five nations who make up the Association of Southeast Asian Nations . I can assure you that Americans will be hearing much more about the ASEAN organization . All of its members are friends of the United States . Their total population equals our own . While they are developing countries , they possess many , many assets vital peoples , abundant natural resources , and well mannered agricultures . They have skilled leaders and the determination to develop themselves and to solve their own problems . Each of these countries protects its independence by relying on its own national resilience and diplomacy . We must continue to assist them . I learned during my visit that our friends want us to remain actively engaged in the affairs of the region . We intend to do so . We retain close and valuable ties with our old friends and allies in the Southwest Pacific Australia on the one hand and New Zealand on the other . A fifth tenet of our new Pacific policy is our belief that peace in Asia depends upon a resolution of outstanding political conflicts . In Korea , tension persists . We have close ties with the Republic of Korea . And we remain committed to peace and security on the Korean Peninsula , as the presence of our forces there attests . Responding to the heightened tension last spring , we reaffirmed our support of the Republic of Korea . Today , the United States is ready to consider constructive ways of easing tensions on the peninsula . But we will continue to resist any moves which attempt to exclude the Republic of Korea from discussion of its own future . In Indochina , the healing effects of time are required . Our policies toward the new regimes of the peninsula will be determined by their conduct toward us . We are prepared to reciprocate gestures of good will particularly the return of remains of Americans killed or missing in action or information about them . If they exhibit restraint toward their neighbors and constructive approaches to international problems , we will look to the future rather than to the past . The sixth point of our new policy in the Pacific is that peace in Asia requires a structure of economic cooperation reflecting the aspiration of all the peoples in the region . The Asian Pacific economy has recently achieved more rapid growth than any other region in the world . Our trade with East Asia now exceeds our transactions with the European Community . America s jobs , currency , and raw materials depend upon economic ties with the Pacific Basin . Our trade with the region is now increasing by more than 30 percent annually , reaching some 46 billion last year . Our economies are increasingly interdependent as cooperation grows between developed and developing nations . Our relations with the five ASEAN countries are marked by growing maturity and by more modest and more realistic expectations on both sides . We no longer approach them as donor to dependent . These proud people look to us less for outright aid than for new trading opportunities and more equitable arrangements for the transfer of science and technology . There is one common theme which was expressed to me by the leaders of every Asian country that I visited . They all advocate the continuity of steady and responsible American leadership . They seek self reliance in their own future and in their own relations with us . Our military assistance to allies and friends is a modest responsibility , but its political significance far surpasses the small cost involved . We serve our highest national interests by strengthening their self reliance , their relations with us , their solidarity with each other , and their regional security . I emphasized to every leader I met that the United States is a Pacific nation . I pledged , as President , I will continue America s active concern for Asia and our presence in the Asian Pacific region . Asia is entering a new era . We can contribute to a new structure of stability founded on a balance among the major powers , strong ties to our allies in the region , an easing of tension between adversaries , the stir reliance and regional solidarity of smaller nations , and expanding economic ties and cultural exchanges . These components of peace are already evident . Our foreign policy in recent years and in recent days encourages their growth . If we can remain steadfast , historians will look back and view the 1970 s as the beginning of a period of peaceful cooperation and progress , a time of growing community for all the nations touched by this great ocean . Here in the Pacific crossroads of Hawaii , we envision hope for a wider community of man . We see the promise of a unique republic which includes all the world s races . No other country has been so truly a free , multiracial society . Hawaii is a splendid example , a splendid showcase of America and exemplifies our destiny as a Pacific nation . America s Pacific heritage emerged from this remarkable State . I am proud to visit Hawaii the island star in the American firmament which radiates the universal magic of aloha . Let there flow from Hawaii and from all of the States in our Union to all peoples , East and West , a new spirit of interchange to build human brotherhood . Thank you very much .<speech_sep>Speaker , Vice President , members of the 95th Congress , and distinguished guests In accordance with the Constitution , I come before you once again to report on the state of the Union . This report will be my last maybe but for the Union it is only the first of such reports in our third century of independence , the close of which none of us will ever see . We can be confident , however , that 100 years from now a freely elected President will come before a freely elected Congress chosen to renew our great Republic s pledge to the government of the people , by the people , and for the people . For my part I pray the third century we are beginning will bring to all Americans , our children and their children s children , a greater measure of individual equality , opportunity , and justice , a greater abundance of spiritual and material blessings , and a higher quality of life , liberty , and the pursuit of happiness . The state of the Union is a measurement of the many elements of which it is composed a political union of diverse states , an economic union of varying interests , an intellectual union of common convictions , and a moral union of immutable ideals . Taken in sum , I can report that the state of the Union is good . There is room for improvement , as always , but today we have a more perfect Union than when my stewardship began . As a people we discovered that our Bicentennial was much more than a celebration of the past it became a joyous reaffirmation of all that it means to be Americans , a confirmation before all the world of the vitality and durability of our free institutions . I am proud to have been privileged to preside over the affairs of our federal government during these eventful years when we proved , as I said in my first words upon assuming office , that our Constitution works our great Republic is a government of laws and not of men . Here the people rule . The people have spoken they have chosen a new President and a new Congress to work their will . I congratulate you particularly the new members as sincerely as I did President elect Carter . In a few days it will be his duty to outline for you his priorities and legislative recommendations . Tonight I will not infringe on that responsibility , but rather wish him the very best in all that is good for our country . During the period of my own service in this Capitol and in the White House , I can recall many orderly transitions of governmental responsibility of problems as well as of position , of burdens as well as of power . The genius of the American system is that we do this so naturally and so normally . There are no soldiers marching in the street except in the Inaugural Parade no public demonstrations except for some of the dancers at the Inaugural Ball the opposition party does not go underground , but goes on functioning vigorously in the Congress and in the country and our vigilant press goes right on probing and publishing our faults and our follies , confirming the wisdom of the framers of the First Amendment . Because of the transfer of authority in our form of government affects the state of the Union and of the world , I am happy to report to you that the current transition is proceeding very well . I was determined that it should I wanted the new President to get off on an easier start than I had . When I became President on August 9 , 1974 , our nation was deeply divided and tormented . In rapid succession the Vice President and the President had resigned in disgrace . We were still struggling with the after effects of a long , unpopular , and bloody war in Southeast Asia . The economy was unstable and racing toward the worst recession in 40 years . People were losing jobs . The cost of living was soaring . The Congress and the Chief Executive were at loggerheads . The integrity of our constitutional process and other institutions was being questioned . For more than 15 years domestic spending had soared as federal programs multiplied , and the expense escalated annually . During the same period our national security needs were steadily shortchanged . In the grave situation which prevailed in August 1974 , our will to maintain our international leadership was in doubt . I asked for your prayers and went to work . In January 1975 I reported to the Congress that the state of the Union was not good . I proposed urgent action to improve the economy and to achieve energy independence in 10 years . I reassured America s allies and sought to reduce the danger of confrontation with potential adversaries . I pledged a new direction for America . 1975 was a year of difficult decisions , but Americans responded with realism , common sense , and self discipline . By January 1976 we were headed in a new direction , which I hold to be the right direction for a free society . It was guided by the belief that successful problem solving requires more than federal action alone , that it involves a full partnership among all branches and all levels of government and public policies which nurture and promote the creative energies of private enterprises , institutions , and individual citizens . A year ago I reported that the state of the Union was better in many ways a lot better but still not good enough . Common sense told me to stick to the steady course we were on , to continue to restrain the inflationary growth of government , to reduce taxes as well as spending , to return local decisions to local officials , to provide for long range sufficiency in energy and national security needs . I resisted the immense pressures of an election year to open the floodgates of federal money and the temptation to promise more than I could deliver . I told it as it was to the American people and demonstrated to the world that in our spirited political competition , as in this chamber , Americans can disagree without being disagreeable . Now , after 30 months as your President , I can say that while we still have a way to go , I am proud of the long way we have come together . I am proud of the part I have had in rebuilding confidence in the Presidency , confidence in our free system , and confidence in our future . Once again , Americans believe in themselves , in their leaders , and in the promise that tomorrow holds for their children . I am proud that today America is at peace . None of our sons are fighting and dying in battle anywhere in the world . And the chance for peace among all nations is improved by our determination to honor our vital commitments in defense of peace and freedom . I am proud that the United States has strong defenses , strong alliances , and a sound and courageous foreign policy . Our alliances with major partners , the great industrial democracies of Western Europe , Japan , and Canada , have never been more solid . Consultations on mutual security , defense , and East West relations have grown closer . Collaboration has branched out into new fields such as energy , economic policy , and relations with the Third World . We have used many avenues for cooperation , including summit meetings held among major allied countries . The friendship of the democracies is deeper , warmer , and more effective than at any time in 30 years . We are maintaining stability in the strategic nuclear balance and pushing back the specter of nuclear war . A decisive step forward was taken in the Vladivostok Accord which I negotiated with General Secretary Brezhnev joint recognition that an equal ceiling should be placed on the number of strategic weapons on each side . With resolve and wisdom on the part of both nations , a good agreement is well within reach this year . The framework for peace in the Middle East has been built . Hopes for future progress in the Middle East were stirred by the historic agreements we reached and the trust and confidence that we formed . Thanks to American leadership , the prospects for peace in the Middle East are brighter than they have been in three decades . The Arab states and Israel continue to look to us to lead them from confrontation and war to a new era of accommodation and peace . We have no alternative but to persevere , and I am sure we will . The opportunities for a final settlement are great , and the price of failure is a return to the bloodshed and hatred that for too long have brought tragedy to all of the peoples of this area and repeatedly edged the world to the brink of war . Our relationship with the People s Republic of China is proving its importance and its durability . We are finding more and more common ground between our two countries on basic questions of international affairs . In my two trips to Asia as President , we have reaffirmed America s continuing vital interest in the peace and security of Asia and the Pacific Basin , established a new partnership with Japan , confirmed our dedication to the security of Korea , and reinforced our ties with the free nations of Southeast Asia . An historic dialog has begun between industrial nations and developing nations . Most proposals on the table are the initiatives of the United States , including those on food , energy , technology , trade , investment , and commodities . We are well launched on this process of shaping positive and reliable economic relations between rich nations and poor nations over the long term . We have made progress in trade negotiations and avoided protectionism during recession . We strengthened the international monetary system . During the past two years the free world s most important economic powers have already brought about important changes that serve both developed and developing economies . The momentum already achieved must be nurtured and strengthened , for the prosperity of the rich and poor depends upon it . In Latin America , our relations have taken on a new maturity and a sense of common enterprise . In Africa the quest for peace , racial justice , and economic progress is at a crucial point . The United States , in close cooperation with the United Kingdom , is actively engaged in this historic process . Will change come about by warfare and chaos and foreign intervention Or will it come about by negotiated and fair solutions , ensuring majority rule , minority rights , and economic advance America is committed to the side of peace and justice and to the principle that Africa should shape its own future , free of outside intervention . American leadership has helped to stimulate new international efforts to stem the proliferation of nuclear weapons and to shape a comprehensive treaty governing the use of oceans . I am gratified by these accomplishments . They constitute a record of broad success for America and for the peace and prosperity of all mankind . This administration leaves to its successor a world in better condition than we found . We leave , as well , a solid foundation for progress on a range of issues that are vital to the well being of America . What has been achieved in the field of foreign affairs and what can be accomplished by the new administration demonstrate the genius of Americans working together for the common good . It is this , our remarkable ability to work together , that has made us a unique nation . It is Congress , the President , and the people striving for a better world . I know all patriotic Americans want this nation s foreign policy to succeed . I urge members of my party in this Congress to give the new President loyal support in this area . I express the hope that this new Congress will reexamine its constitutional role in international affairs . The exclusive right to declare war , the duty to advise and consent on the part of the Senate , the power of the purse on the part of the House are ample authority for the legislative branch and should be jealously guarded . But because we may have been too careless of these powers in the past does not justify congressional intrusion into , or obstruction of , the proper exercise of Presidential responsibilities now or in the future . There can be only one Commander in Chief . In these times crises cannot be managed and wars cannot be waged by committee , nor can peace be pursued solely by parliamentary debate . To the ears of the world , the President speaks for the nation . While he is , of course , ultimately accountable to the Congress , the courts , and the people , he and his emissaries must not be handicapped in advance in their relations with foreign governments as has sometimes happened in the past . At home I am encouraged by the nation s recovery from the recession and our steady return to sound economic growth . It is now continuing after the recent period of uncertainty , which is part of the price we pay for free elections . Our most pressing need today and the future is more jobs productive , permanent jobs created by a thriving economy . We must revise our tax system both to ease the burden of heavy taxation and to encourage the investment necessary for the creation of productive jobs for all Americans who want to work . Earlier this month I proposed a permanent income tax reduction of 10 billion below current levels , including raising the personal exemption from 750 to 1 , 000 . I also recommended a series of measures to stimulate investment , such as accelerated depreciation for new plants and equipment in areas of high unemployment , a reduction in the corporate tax rate from 48 to 46 percent , and eliminating the present double taxation of dividends . I strongly urge the Congress to pass these measures to help create the productive , permanent jobs in the private economy that are so essential for our future . All the basic trends are good we are not on the brink of another recession or economic disaster . If we follow prudent policies that encourage productive investment and discourage destructive inflation , we will come out on top , and I am sure we will . We have successfully cut inflation by more than half . When I took office , the Consumer Price Index was rising at 12 . 2 percent a year . During 1976 the rate of inflation was 5 percent . We have created more jobs over four million more jobs today than in the spring of 1975 . Throughout this nation today we have over 88 million people in useful , productive jobs more than at any other time in our nation s history . But there are still too many Americans unemployed . This is the greatest regret that I have as I leave office . We brought about with the Congress , after much delay , the renewal of the general revenue sharing . We expanded community development and federal manpower programs . We began a significant urban mass transit program . Federal programs today provide more funds for our states and local governments than ever before 70 billion for the current fiscal year . Through these programs and others that provide aid directly to individuals , we have kept faith with our tradition of compassionate help for those who need it . As we begin our third century we can be proud of the progress that we have made in meeting human needs for all of our citizens . We have cut the growth of crime by nearly 90 percent . Two years ago crime was increasing at the rate of 18 percent annually . In the first three quarters of 1976 , that growth rate had been cut to 2 percent . But crime , and the fear of crime , remains one of the most serious problems facing our citizens . We have had some successes , and there have been some disappointments . Bluntly , I must remind you that we have not made satisfactory progress toward achieving energy independence . Energy is absolutely vital to the defense of our country , to the strength of our economy , and to the quality of our lives . Two years ago I proposed to the Congress the first comprehensive national energy program a specific and coordinated set of measures that would end our vulnerability to embargo , blockade , or arbitrary price increases and would mobilize technology and resources to supply a significant share of the free world s energy after 1985 . Of the major energy proposals I submitted two years ago , only half , belatedly , became law . In 1973 we were dependent upon foreign oil imports for 36 percent of our needs . Today , we are 40 percent dependent , and we will pay out 34 billion for foreign oil this year . Such vulnerability at present or in the future is intolerable and must be ended . The answer to where we stand on our national energy effort today reminds me of the old argument about whether the tank is half full or half empty . The pessimist will say we have half failed to achieve our 10 year energy goals the optimist will say that we have half succeeded . I am always an optimist , but we must make up for lost time . We have laid a solid foundation for completing the enormous task which confronts us . I have signed into law five major energy bills which contain significant measures for conservation , resource development , stockpiling , and standby authorities . We have moved forward to develop the naval petroleum reserves to build a 500 million barrel strategic petroleum stockpile to phase out unnecessary government allocation and price controls to develop a lasting relationship with other oil consuming nations to improve the efficiency of energy use through conservation in automobiles , buildings , and industry and to expand research on new technology and renewable resources such as wind power , geothermal and solar energy . All these actions , significant as they are for the long term , are only the beginning . I recently submitted to the Congress my proposals to reorganize the federal energy structure and the hard choices which remain if we are serious about reducing our dependence upon foreign energy . These include programs to reverse our declining production of natural gas and increase incentives for domestic crude oil production . I proposed to minimize environmental uncertainties affecting coal development , expand nuclear power generation , and create an energy independence authority to provide government financial assistance for vital energy programs where private capital is not available . We must explore every reasonable prospect for meeting our energy needs when our current domestic reserves of oil and natural gas begin to dwindle in the next decade . I urgently ask Congress and the new administration to move quickly on these issues . This nation has the resources and the capability to achieve our energy goals if its government has the will to proceed , and I think we do . I have been disappointed by inability to complete many of the meaningful organizational reforms which I contemplated for the federal government , although a start has been made . For example , the federal judicial system has long served as a modal for other courts . But today it is threatened by a shortage of qualified federal judges and an explosion of litigation claiming federal jurisdiction . I commend to the new administration and the Congress the recent report and recommendations of the Department of Justice , undertaken at my request , on the needs of the federal courts . I especially endorse its proposals for a new commission on the judicial appointment process . While the judicial branch of our government may require reinforcement , the budgets and payrolls of the other branches remain staggering . I cannot help but observe that while the White House staff and the Executive Office of the President have been reduced and the total number of civilians in the executive branch contained during the 1970s , the legislative branch has increased substantially although the membership of the Congress remains at 535 . Congress now costs the taxpayers more than a million dollars per member the whole legislative budget has passed the billion dollar mark . set out to reduce the growth in the size and spending of the federal government , but no President can accomplish this alone . The Congress sidetracked most of my requests for authority to consolidate overlapping programs and agencies , to return more decisionmaking and responsibility to state and local governments through block grants instead of rigid categorical programs , and to eliminate unnecessary red tape and outrageously complex regulations . We have made some progress in cutting back the expansion of government and its intrusion into individual lives , but believe me , there is much more to be done and you and I know it . It can only be done by tough and temporarily painful surgery by a Congress as prepared as the President to face up to this very real political problem . Again , I wish my successor , working with a substantial majority of his own party , the best of success in reforming the costly and cumbersome machinery of the federal government . The task of self government is never finished . The problems are great the opportunities are greater . America s first goal is and always will be peace with honor . America must remain first in keeping peace in the world . We can remain first in peace only if we are never second in defense . In presenting the state of the Union to the Congress and to the American people , I have a special obligation as Commander in Chief to report on our national defense . Our survival as a free and independent people requires , above all , strong military forces that are well equipped and highly trained to perform their assigned mission . I am particularly gratified to report that over the past two years , we have been able to reverse the dangerous decline of the previous decade in real resources this country was devoting to national defense . This was an immediate problem I faced in 1974 . The evidence was unmistakable that the Soviet Union had been steadily increasing the resources it applied to building its military strength . During this same period the United States real defense spending declined . In my three budgets we not only arrested that dangerous decline , but we have established the positive trend which is essential to our ability to contribute to peace and stability in the world . The Vietnam War , both materially and psychologically , affected our overall defense posture . The dangerous anti military sentiment discouraged defense spending and unfairly disparaged the men and women who serve in our armed forces . The challenge that now confronts this country is whether we have the national will and determination to continue this essential defense effort over the long term , as it must be continued . We can no longer afford to oscillate from year to year in so vital a matter indeed , we have a duty to look beyond the immediate question of budgets and to examine the nature of the problem we will face over the next generation . I am the first recent President able to address long term , basic issues without the burden of Vietnam . The war in Indochina consumed enormous resources at the very time that the overwhelming strategic superiority we once enjoyed was disappearing . In past years , as a result of decisions by the United States , our strategic forces leveled off , yet the Soviet Union continued a steady , constant buildup of its own forces , committing a high percentage of its national economic effort to defense . The United States can never tolerate a shift in strategic balance against us or even a situation where the American people or our allies believe the balance is shifting against us . The United States would risk the most serious political consequences if the world came to believe that our adversaries have a decisive margin of superiority . To maintain a strategic balance we must look ahead to the 1980s and beyond . The sophistication of modern weapons requires that we make decisions now if we are to ensure our security 10 years from now . Therefore , I have consistently advocated and strongly urged that we pursue three critical strategic programs the Trident missile launching submarine the B 1 bomber , with its superior capability to penetrate modern air defenses and a more advanced intercontinental ballistic missile that will be better able to survive nuclear attack and deliver a devastating retaliatory strike . In an era where the strategic nuclear forces are in rough equilibrium , the risks of conflict below the nuclear threshold may grow more perilous . A major , long term objective , therefore , is to maintain capabilities to deal with , and thereby deter , conventional challenges and crises , particularly in Europe . We cannot rely solely on strategic forces to guarantee our security or to deter all types of aggression . We must have superior naval and marine forces to maintain freedom of the seas , strong multipurpose tactical air forces , and mobile , modern ground forces . Accordingly , I have directed a long term effort to improve our worldwide capabilities to deal with regional crises . I have submitted a five year naval building program indispensable to the nation s maritime strategy . Because the security of Europe and the integrity of NATO remain the cornerstone of American defense policy , I have initiated a special , long term program to ensure the capacity of the Alliance to deter or defeat aggression in Europe . As I leave office I can report that our national defense is effectively deterring conflict today . Our armed forces are capable of carrying out the variety of missions assigned to them . Programs are underway which will assure we can deter war in the years ahead . But I also must warn that it will require a sustained effort over a period of years to maintain these capabilities . We must have the wisdom , the stamina , and the courage to prepare today for the perils of tomorrow , and I believe we will . As I look to the future and I assure you I intend to go on doing that for a good many years I can say with confidence that the state of the Union is good , but we must go on making it better and better . This gathering symbolizes the constitutional foundation which makes continued progress possible , synchronizing the skills of three independent branches of government , reserving fundamental sovereignty to the people of this great land . It is only as the temporary representatives and servants of the people that we meet here , we bring no hereditary status or gift of infallibility , and none follows us from this place . Like President Washington , like the more fortunate of his successors , I look forward to the status of private citizen with gladness and gratitude . To me , being a citizen of the United States of America is the greatest honor and privilege in this world . From the opportunities which fate and my fellow citizens have given me , as a member of the House , as Vice President and President of the Senate , and as President of all the people , I have come to understand and place the highest value on the checks and balances which our founders imposed on government through the separation of powers among co equal legislative , executive , and judicial branches . This often results in difficulty and delay , as I well know , but it also places supreme authority under God , beyond any one person , any one branch , any majority great or small , or any one party . The Constitution is the bedrock of all our freedoms . Guard and cherish it , keep honor and order in your own house , and the Republic will endure . It is not easy to end these remarks . In this chamber , along with some of you , I have experienced many , many of the highlights of my life . It was here that I stood 28 years ago with my freshman colleagues , as Speaker Sam Rayburn administered the oath . I see some of you now Charlie Bennett , Dick Bolling , Carl Perkins , Pete Rodino , Harley Staggers , Tom Steed , Sid Yates , Clem Zablocki and I remember those who have gone to their rest . It was here we waged many , many a lively battle won some , lost some , but always remaining friends . It was here , surrounded by such friends , that the distinguished Chief Justice swore me in as Vice President on December 6 , 1973 . It was here I returned eight months later as your President to ask not for a honeymoon , but for a good marriage . I will always treasure those memories and your many , many kindnesses . I thank you for them all . My fellow Americans , I once asked you for your prayers , and now I give you mine May God guide this wonderful country , its people , and those they have chosen to lead them . May our third century be illuminated by liberty and blessed with brotherhood , so that we and all who come after us may be the humble servants of thy peace . Amen . Good night . God bless you .<speech_sep>Chairman , delegates and alternates to this Republican Convention I am honored by your nomination , and I accept it with pride , with gratitude , and with a total will to win a great victory for the American people . We will wage a winning campaign in every region of this country , from the snowy banks of Minnesota to the sandy plains of Georgia . We concede not a single State . We concede not a single vote . This evening I am proud to stand before this great convention as the first incumbent President since Dwight Eisenhower who can tell the American people America is at peace . Tonight I can tell you straightaway this Nation is sound , this Nation is secure , this Nation is on the march to full economic recovery and a better quality of life for all Americans . And I will tell you one more thing This year the issues are on our side . I am ready , I am eager to go before the American people and debate the real issues face to face with Jimmy Carter . The American people have a right to know firsthand exactly where both of us stand . I am deeply grateful to those who stood with me in winning the nomination of the party whose cause I have served all of my adult life . I respect the convictions of those who want a change in Washington . I want a change , too . After 22 long years of majority misrule , let us change the United States Congress . My gratitude tonight reaches far beyond this arena to countless friends whose confidence , hard work , and unselfish support have brought me to this moment . It would be unfair to single out anyone , but may I make an exception for my wonderful family Mike , Jack , Steve , and Susan and especially my dear wife , Betty . We Republicans have had some tough competition . We not only preach the virtues of competition , we practice them . But tonight we come together not on a battlefield to conclude a cease fire , but to join forces on a training field that has conditioned us all for the rugged contest ahead . Let me say this from the bottom of my heart After the scrimmages of the past few months , it really feels good to have Ron Reagan on the same side of the line . To strengthen our championship lineup , the convention has wisely chosen one of the ablest Americans as our next Vice President , Senator Bob Dole of Kansas . With his help , with your help , with the help of millions of Americans who cherish peace , who want freedom preserved , prosperity shared , and pride in America , we will win this election . I speak not of a Republican victory , but a victory for the American people . You at home listening tonight , you are the people who pay the taxes and obey the laws . You are the people who make our system work . You are the people who make America what it is . It is from your ranks that I come and on your side that I stand . Something wonderful happened to this country of ours the past two years . We all came to realize it on the Fourth of July . Together , out of years of turmoil and tragedy , wars and riots , assassinations and wrongdoing in high places , Americans recaptured the spirit of 1776 . We saw again the pioneer vision of our revolutionary founders and our immigrant ancestors . Their vision was of free men and free women enjoying limited government and unlimited opportunity . The mandate I want in 1976 is to make this vision a reality , but it will take the voices and the votes of many more Americans who are not Republicans to make that mandate binding and my mission possible . I have been called an unelected President , an accidental President . We may even hear that again from the other party , despite the fact that I was welcomed and endorsed by an overwhelming majority of their elected representatives in the Congress who certified my fitness to our highest office . Having become Vice President and President without expecting or seeking either , I have a special feeling toward these high offices . To me , the Presidency and the Vice Presidency were not prizes to be won , but a duty to be done . So , tonight it is not the power and the glamour of the Presidency that leads me to ask for another four years it is something every hard working American will understand the challenge of a job well begun , but far from finished . Two years ago , on August 9 , 1974 , I placed my hand on the Bible , which Betty held , and took the same constitutional oath that was administered to George Washington . I had faith in our people , in our institutions , and in myself . My fellow Americans , I said , our long national nightmare is over . It was an hour in our history that troubled our minds and tore at our hearts . Anger and hatred had risen to dangerous levels , dividing friends and families . The polarization of our political order had aroused unworthy passions of reprisal and revenge . Our governmental system was closer to stalemate than at any time since Abraham Lincoln took the same oath of office . Our economy was in the throes of runaway inflation , taking us headlong into the worst recession since Franklin Roosevelt took the same oath . On that dark day I told my fellow countrymen , I am acutely aware that you have not elected me as your President by your ballots , so I ask you to confirm me as your President with your prayers . On a marble fireplace in the White House is carved a prayer which John Adams wrote . It concludes , May none but honest and wise men ever rule under this roof . Since I have resided in that historic house , I have tried to live by that prayer . I faced many tough problems . I probably made some mistakes , but on balance , America and Americans have made an incredible comeback since August 1974 . Nobody can honestly say otherwise . And the plain truth is that the great progress we have made at home and abroad was in spite of the majority who run the Congress of the United States . For two years I have stood for all the people against a vote hungry , free spending congressional majority on Capitol Hill . Fifty five times I vetoed extravagant and unwise legislation 45 times I made those vetoes stick . Those vetoes have saved American taxpayers billions and billions of dollars . I am against the big tax spender and for the little taxpayer . I called for a permanent tax cut , coupled with spending reductions , to stimulate the economy and relieve hard pressed , middle income taxpayers . Your personal exemption must be raised from 750 to 1 , 000 . The other party s platform talks about tax reform , but there is one big problem their own Congress will not act . I called for reasonable constitutional restrictions on court ordered busing of schoolchildren , but the other party s platform concedes that busing should be a last resort . But there is the same problem their own Congress will not act . I called for a major overhaul of criminal laws to crack down on crime and illegal drugs . The other party s platform deplores America s 90 billion cost of crime . There is the problem again their own Congress will not act . The other party s platform talks about a strong defense . Now , here is the other side of the problem their own Congress did act . They slashed 50 billion from our national defense needs in the last 10 years . My friends , Washington is not the problem their Congress is the problem . You know , the President of the United States is not a magician who can wave a wand or sign a paper that will instantly end a war , cure a recession , or make bureaucracy disappear . A President has immense powers under the Constitution , but all of them ultimately come from the American people and their mandate to him . That is why , tonight , I turn to the American people and ask not only for your prayers but also for your strength and your support , for your voice , and for your vote . I come before you with a 2 year record of performance without your mandate . I offer you a 4 year pledge of greater performance with your mandate . As Governor Al Smith used to say , Let us look at the record . Two years ago inflation was 12 percent . Sales were off . Plants were shut down . Thousands were being laid off every week . Fear of the future was throttling down our economy and threatening millions of families . Let us look at the record since August 1974 . Inflation has been cut in half . Payrolls are up . Profits are up . Production is up . Purchases are up . Since the recession was turned around , almost 4 million of our fellow Americans have found new jobs or got their old jobs back . This year more men and women have jobs than ever before in the history of the United States . Confidence has returned , and we are in the full surge of sound recovery to steady prosperity . Two years ago America was mired in withdrawal from Southeast Asia . A decade of Congresses had shortchanged our global defenses and threatened our strategic posture . Mounting tension between Israel and the Arab nations made another war seem inevitable . The whole world watched and wondered where America was going . Did we in our domestic turmoil have the will , the stamina , and the unity to stand up for freedom Look at the record since August , two years ago . Today America is at peace and seeks peace for all nations . Not a single American is at war anywhere on the face of this Earth tonight . Our ties with Western Europe and Japan , economic as well as military , were never stronger . Our relations with Eastern Europe , the Soviet Union , and mainland China are firm , vigilant , and forward looking . Policies I have initiated offer sound progress for the peoples of the Pacific , Africa , and Latin America . Israel and Egypt , both trusting the United States , have taken an historic step that promises an eventual just settlement for the whole Middle East . The world now respects America s policy of peace through strength . The United States is again the confident leader of the free world . Nobody questions our dedication to peace , but nobody doubts our willingness to use our strength when our vital interests are at stake , and we will . I called for an up to date , powerful Army , Navy , Air Force , and Marines that will keep America secure for decades . A strong military posture is always the best insurance for peace . But America s strength has never rested on arms alone . It is rooted in our mutual commitment of our citizens and leaders in the highest standards of ethics and morality and in the spiritual renewal which our Nation is undergoing right now . Two years ago people s confidence in their highest officials , to whom they had overwhelmingly entrusted power , had twice been shattered . Losing faith in the word of their elected leaders , Americans lost some of their own faith in themselves . Again , let us look at the record since August 1974 . From the start my administration has been open , candid , forthright . While my entire public and private life was under searching examination for the Vice Presidency , I reaffirmed my lifelong conviction that truth is the glue that holds government together not only government but civilization itself . I have demanded honesty , decency , and personal integrity from everybody in the executive branch of the Government . The House and Senate have the same duty . The American people will not accept a double standard in the United States Congress . Those who make our laws today must not debase the reputation of our great legislative bodies that have given us such giants as Daniel Webster , Henry Clay , Sam Rayburn , and Robert Taft . Whether in the Nation s Capital , the State capital , or city hall , private morality and public trust must go together . From August of 1974 to August of 1976 , the record shows steady progress upward toward prosperity , peace , and public trust . My record is one of progress , not platitudes . My record is one of specifics , not smiles . My record is one of performance , not promises . It is a record I am proud to run on . It is a record the American people Democrats , Independents , and Republicans alike will support on November 2 . For the next four years I pledge to you that I will hold to the steady course we have begun . But I have no intention of standing on the record alone . We will continue winning the fight against inflation . We will go on reducing the dead weight and impudence of bureaucracy . We will submit a balanced budget by 1978 . We will improve the quality of life at work , at play , and in our homes and in our neighborhoods . We will not abandon our cities . We will encourage urban programs which assure safety in the streets , create healthy environments , and restore neighborhood pride . We will return control of our children s education to parents and local school authorities . We will make sure that the party of Lincoln remains the party of equal rights . We will create a tax structure that is fair for all our citizens , one that preserves the continuity of the family home , the family farm , and the family business . We will ensure the integrity of the social security system and improve Medicare so that our older citizens can enjoy the health and the happiness that they have earned . There is no reason they should have to go broke just to get well . We will make sure that this rich Nation does not neglect citizens who are less fortunate , but provides for their needs with compassion and with dignity . We will reduce the growth and the cost of government and allow individual breadwinners and businesses to keep more of the money that they earn . We will create a climate in which our economy will provide a meaningful job for everyone who wants to work and a decent standard of life for all Americans . We will ensure that all of our young people have a better chance in life than we had , an education they can use , and a career they can be proud of . We will carry out a farm policy that assures a fair market price for the farmer , encourages full production , leads to record exports , and eases the hunger within the human family . We will never use the bounty of America s farmers as a pawn in international diplomacy . There will be no embargoes . We will continue our strong leadership to bring peace , justice , and economic progress where there is turmoil , especially in the Middle East . We will build a safer and saner world through patient negotiations and dependable arms agreements which reduce the danger of conflict and horror of thermonuclear war . While I am President , we will not return to a collision course that could reduce civilization to ashes . We will build an America where people feel rich in spirit as well as in worldly goods . We will build an America where people feel proud about themselves and about their country . We will build on performance , not promises experience , not expediency real progress instead of mysterious plans to be revealed in some dim and distant future . The American people are wise , wiser than our opponents think . They know who pays for every campaign promise . They are not afraid of the truth . We will tell them the truth . From start to finish , our campaign will be credible it will be responsible . We will come out fighting , and we will win . Yes , we have all seen the polls and the pundits who say our party is dead . I have heard that before . So did Harry Truman . I will tell you what I think . The only polls that count are the polls the American people go to on November 2 . And right now , I predict that the American people are going to say that night , Jerry , you have done a good job , keep right on doing it . As I try in my imagination to look into the homes where families are watching the end of this great convention , I cannot tell which faces are Republicans , which are Democrats , and which are Independents . I cannot see their color or their creed . I see only Americans . I see Americans who love their husbands , their wives , and their children . I see Americans who love their country for what it has been and what it must become . I see Americans who work hard , but who are willing to sacrifice all they have worked for to keep their children and their country free . I see Americans who in their own quiet way pray for peace among nations and peace among themselves . We do love our neighbors , and we do forgive those who have trespassed against us . I see a new generation that knows what is right and knows itself , a generation determined to preserve its ideals , its environment , our Nation , and the world . My fellow Americans , I like what I see . I have no fear for the future of this great country . And as we go forward together , I promise you once more what I promised before to uphold the Constitution , to do what is right as God gives me to see the right , and to do the very best that I can for America . God helping me , I will not let you down . Thank you very much .<speech_sep>Speaker , President , distinguished guests , my very dear friends In his first inaugural address , President Franklin Roosevelt said , and I quote The people of the United States have not failed . . . . They want direct , vigorous action , and they have asked for discipline and direction under our leadership . Today , though our economic difficulties do not approach the emergency of 1933 , the message from the American people is exactly the same . I trust that you are getting the very same message that I am receiving Our constituents want leadership , our constituents want action . All of us have heard much talk on this very floor about Congress recovering its rightful share of national leadership . I now intend to offer you that chance . The 73d Congress responded to FDR s appeal in five days . I am deeply grateful for the cooperation of the 93d Congress and the Conference on Inflation , which ended ten days ago . Speaker , many but not all of your recommendations on behalf of your party s caucus are reflected in some of my proposals here today . The distinguished majority leader of the Senate offered a nine point program . I seriously studied all of them and adopted some of his suggestions . I might add , I have also listened very hard to many of our former colleagues in both bodies and of both the majority and the minority , and have been both persuaded and dissuaded . But in the end , I had to make the decision , I had to decide , as each of you do when the roll call is called . I will not take your time today with the discussion of the origins of inflation and its bad effect on the United States , but I do know where we want to be in 1976 on the 200th birthday of a United States of America that has not lost its way , nor its will , nor its sense of national purpose . During the meetings on inflation , I listened carefully to many valuable suggestions . Since the summit , I have evaluated literally hundreds of ideas , day and night . My conclusions are very simply stated . There is only one point on which all advisers have agreed We must whip inflation right now . None of the remedies proposed , great or small , compulsory or voluntary , stands a chance unless they are combined in a considered package , in a concerted effort , in a grand design . I have reviewed the past and the present efforts of our Federal Government to help the economy . They are simply not good enough , nor sufficiently broad , nor do they pack the punch that will turn America s economy on . A stable American economy cannot be sustained if the world s economy is in chaos . International cooperation is absolutely essential and vital . But while we seek agreements with other nations , let us put our own economic house in order . Today , I have identified 10 areas for our joint action , the executive and the legislative branches of our Government . Number one food . America is the world s champion producer of food . Food prices and petroleum prices in the United States are primary inflationary factors . America today partially depends on foreign sources for petroleum , but we can grow more than enough food for ourselves . To halt higher food prices , we must produce more food , and I call upon every farmer to produce to full capacity . And I say to you and to the farmers , they have done a magnificent job in the past , and we should be eternally grateful . This Government , however , will do all in its power to assure him that farmer he can sell his entire yield at reasonable prices . Accordingly , I ask the Congress to remove all remaining acreage limitations on rice , peanuts , and cotton . I also assure America s farmers here and now that I will allocate all the fuel and ask authority to allocate all the fertilizer they need to do this essential job . Agricultural marketing orders and other Federal regulations are being reviewed to eliminate or modify those responsible for inflated prices . I have directed our new Council on Wage and Price Stability to find and to expose all restrictive practices , public or private , which raise food prices . The Administration will also monitor food production , margins , pricing , and exports . We can and we shall have an adequate supply at home , and through cooperation , meet the needs of our trading partners abroad . Over this past weekend , we initiated a voluntary program to monitor grain exports . The Economic Policy Board will be responsible for determining the policy under this program . In addition , in order to better allocate our supplies for export , I ask that a provision be added to Public Law 480 under which we ship food to the needy and friendly countries . The President needs authority to waive certain of the restrictions on shipments based on national interest or humanitarian grounds . Number two energy . America s future depends heavily on oil , gas , coal , electricity , and other resources called energy . Make no mistake , we do have a real energy problem . One third of our oil 17 percent of America s total energy now comes from foreign sources that we cannot control , at high cartel prices costing you and me 16 billion 16 billion more than just a year ago . The primary solution has to be at home . If you have forgotten the shortages of last winter , most Americans have not . I have ordered today the reorganization of our national energy effort and the creation of a national energy board . It will be chaired with developing or I should say charged with developing a single national energy policy and program . And I think most of you will be glad to know that our former colleague , Rog Morton , our Secretary of Interior , will be the overall boss of our national energy program . Rog Morton s marching orders are to reduce imports of foreign oil by 1 million barrels per day by the end of 1975 , whether by savings here at home , or by increasing our own sources . Secretary Morton , along with his other responsibility , is also charged with increasing our domestic energy supply by promptly utilizing our coal resources and expanding recovery of domestic oil still in the grounds in old wells . New legislation will be sought after your recess to require use of cleaner coal processes and nuclear fuel in new electric plants , and the quick conversion of existing oil plants . I propose that we , together , set a target date of 1980 for eliminating oil fired plants from the Nation s base loaded electrical capacity . I will use the Defense Production Act to allocate scarce materials for energy development , and I will ask you , the House and Senate , for whatever amendments prove necessary . I will meet with top management of the automobile industry to assure , either by agreement or by law , a firm program aimed at achieving a 40 percent increase in gasoline mileage within a 4 year development deadline . Priority legislation action , I should say to increase energy supply here at home requires the following One , long sought deregulation of natural gas supplies , Number two , responsible use of our Naval petroleum reserves in California and Alaska , Number three , amendments to the Clean Air Act and Four , passage of surface mining legislation to ensure an adequate supply with commonsense environmental protection . Now , if all of these steps fail to meet our current energy saving goals , I will not hesitate to ask for tougher measures . For the long range , we must work harder on coal gasification . We must push with renewed vigor and talent research in the use of nonfossil fuels . The power of the atom , the heat of the sun and the steam stored deep in the Earth , the force of the winds and water must be main sources of energy for our grandchildren , and we can do it . Number three restrictive practices . To increase productivity and contain prices , we must end restrictive and costly practices whether instituted by Government , industry , labor , or others . And I am determined to return to the vigorous enforcement of antitrust laws . The Administration will zero in on more effective enforcement of laws against price fixing and bid rigging . For instance , non competitive professional fee schedules and real estate settlement fees must be eliminated . Such violations will be prosecuted by the Department of Justice to the full extent of the law . Now , I ask Congress for prompt authority to increase maximum penalties for antitrust violations from 50 , 000 to 1 million for corporations , and from 50 , 000 to 100 , 000 for individual violators . At the Conference on Inflation we found , I would say , very broad agreement that the Federal Government imposes too many hidden and too many inflationary costs on our economy . As a result , I propose a four point program aimed at a substantial purging process . Number one , I have ordered the Council on Wage and Price Stability to be the watchdog over inflationary costs of all governmental actions . Two , I ask the Congress to establish a National Commission on Regulatory Reform to undertake a long overdue total reexamination of the independent regulatory agencies . It will be a joint effort by the Congress , the executive branch , and the private sector to identify and eliminate existing Federal rules and regulations that increase costs to the consumer without any good reason in today s economic climate . Three Hereafter , I will require that all major legislative proposals , regulations , and rules emanating from the executive branch of the Government will include an inflation impact statement that certifies we have carefully weighed the effect on the Nation . I respectfully request that the Congress require a similar advance inflation impact statement for its own legislative initiatives . Finally , I urge State and local units of government to undertake similar programs to reduce inflationary effects of their regulatory activities . At this point , I thank the Congress for recently revitalizing the National Commission on Productivity and Work Quality . It will initially concentrate on problems of productivity in Government Federal , State , and local . Outside of Government , it will develop meaningful blueprints for labor management cooperation at the plant level . It should look particularly at the construction and the health service industries . The Council on Wage and Price Stability will , of course , monitor wage and price increases in the private sector . Monitoring will include public hearings to justify either price or wage increases . I emphasize , in fact reemphasize , that this is not a compulsory wage and price control agency . Now , I know many Americans see Federal controls as the answer . But I believe from past experience controls show us that they never really stop inflation not the last time , not even during and immediately after World War II when , as I recall , prices rose despite severe and enforceable wartime rationing . Now , peacetime controls actually , we know from recent experience , create shortages , hamper production , stifle growth , and limit jobs . I do not ask for such powers , however politically tempting , as such a program could cause the fixer and the black marketeer to flourish while decent citizens face empty shelves and stand in long waiting lines . Number four We need more capital . We cannot eat up our seed corn . Our free enterprise system depends on orderly capital markets through which the savings of our people become productively used . Today , our capital markets are in total disarray . We must restore their vitality . Prudent monetary restraint is essential . You and the American people should know , however , that I have personally been assured by the Chairman of the independent Federal Reserve Board that the supply of money and credit will expand sufficiently to meet the needs of our economy and that in no event will a credit crunch occur . The prime lending rate is going down . To help industry to buy more machines and create more jobs , I am recommending a liberalized 10 percent investment tax credit . This credit should be especially helpful to capital intensive industries such as primary metals , public utilities , where capacity shortages have developed . I am asking Congress to enact tax legislation to provide that all dividends on preferred stocks issued for cash be fully deductible by the issuing company . This should bring in more capital , especially for energy producing utilities . It will also help other industries shift from debt to equity , providing a sounder capital structure . Capital gains tax legislation must be liberalized as proposed by the tax reform bill currently before the Committee on Ways and Means . I endorse this approach and hope that it will pass promptly . Number five Helping the casualties . And this is a very important part of the overall speech . The Conference on Inflation made everybody even more aware of who is suffering most from inflation . Foremost are those who are jobless through no fault of their own . Three weeks ago , I released funds which , with earlier actions , provide public service employment for some 170 , 000 who need work . I now propose to the Congress a two step program to augment this action . First , 13 weeks of special unemployment insurance benefits would be provided to those who have exhausted their regular and extended unemployment insurance benefits , and 26 weeks of special unemployment insurance benefits to those who qualify but are not now covered by regular unemployment insurance programs . Funding in this case would come from the general treasury , not from taxes on employers as is the case with the established unemployment programs . Second , I ask the Congress to create a brand new Community Improvement Corps to provide work for the unemployed through short term useful work projects to improve , beautify , and enhance the environment of our cities , our towns , and our countryside . This standby program would come alive whenever unemployment exceeds 6 percent nationally . It would be stopped when unemployment drops below 6 percent . Local labor markets would each qualify for grants whenever their unemployment rate exceeds 6 . 5 percent . State and local government contractors would supervise these projects and could hire only those who had exhausted their unemployment insurance benefits . The goal of this new program is to provide more constructive work for all Americans , young or old , who cannot find a job . The purpose really follows this formula Short term problems require short term remedies . I therefore request that these programs be for a 1 year period . Now , I know that low and middle income Americans have been hardest hit by inflation . Their budgets are most vulnerable because a larger part of their income goes for the highly inflated costs of food , fuel , and medical care . The tax reform bill now in the House Committee on Ways and Means , which I favor , already provides approximately 1 . 6 billion of tax relief to these groups . Compensating new revenues are provided in this prospective legislation by a windfall tax , profits tax on oil producers , and by closing other loopholes . If enacted , this will be a major contribution by the Congress in our common effort to make our tax system fairer to all . Number six stimulating housing . Without question , credit is the lifeblood of housing . The United States , unfortunately , is suffering the longest and the most severe housing recession since the end of World War IUnemployment in the construction trades is twice the national average . One of my first acts as President was to sign the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 . I have since concluded that still more help is needed , help that can be delivered very quickly and with minimum inflationary impact . I urge the Congress to enact before recess additional legislation to make most home mortgages eligible for purchase by an agency of the Federal Government . As the law stands now , only FHA or VA home mortgages , one fifth of the total , are covered . I am very glad that the Senate , thanks to the leadership of Senator Brooke and Senator Cranston , has already made substantial progress on this legislation . As soon as it comes to me , I will make at least 3 billion immediately available for mortgage purchases , enough to finance about 100 , 000 more American homes . Number seven thrift institutions . Savings and loan and similar institutions are hard hit by inflation and high interest rates . They no longer attract , unfortunately , adequate deposits . The executive branch , in my judgment , must join with the Congress in giving critically needed attention to the structure and the operation of our thrift institutions which now find themselves for the third time in 8 years in another period of serious mortgage credit scarcity . Passage of the pending financial institution bill will help , but no single measure has yet appeared , as I see it , to solve feast or famine in mortgage credit . However , I promise to work with you individually and collectively to develop additional specific programs in this area in the future . Number eight international interdependency . The United States has a responsibility not only to maintain a healthy economy at home , but also to seek policies which complement rather than disrupt the constructive efforts of others . Essential to initiatives is the early passage of an acceptable trade reform bill . My Special Representative for Trade Negotiations departed earlier this afternoon to Canada , Europe , Japan , to brief foreign friends on my proposals . We live in an interdependent world and , therefore , must work together to resolve common economic problems . Number nine Federal taxes and spending . To support programs , to increase production and share inflation produced hardships , we need additional tax revenues . I am aware that any proposal for new taxes just four weeks before a national election is , to put it mildly , considered politically unwise . And I am frank to say that I have been earnestly advised to wait and talk about taxes anytime after November 5 . But I do say in sincerity that I will not play politics with America s future . Our present inflation to a considerable degree comes from many years of enacting expensive programs without raising enough revenues to pay for them . The truth is that 19 out of the 25 years I had the honor and the privilege to serve in this Chamber , the Federal Government ended up with Federal deficits . That is not a very good batting average . By now , almost everybody almost everybody else , I should say has stated my position on Federal gasoline taxes . This time I will do it myself . I am not emphasizing not asking you for any increase in gas taxes . I am I am asking you to approve a l year temporary tax surcharge of 5 percent on corporate and upper level individual incomes . This would generally exclude from the surcharge those families with gross incomes below 15 , 000 a year . The estimated 5 billion in extra revenue to be raised by this inflation fighting tax should pay for the new programs I have recommended in this message . I think , and I suspect each of you know , this is the acid test of our joint determination to whip inflation in America . I would not ask this if major loopholes were not now being closed by the Committee on Ways and Means tax reform bill . I urge you to join me before your recess , in addition to what I have said before , to join me by voting to set a target spending limit let me emphasize it a target spending limit of 300 billion for the Federal fiscal budget of 1975 . When Congress agrees to this spending target , I will submit a package of budget deferrals and rescissions to meet this goal . I will do the tough job of designating for Congressional action , on your return , those areas which I believe can and must be reduced . These will be hard choices and every one of you in this Chamber know it as well as They will be hard choices , but no Federal agency , including the Defense Department , will be untouchable . It is my judgment that fiscal discipline is a necessary weapon in any fight against inflation . While this spending target is a small step , it is a step in the right direction , and we need to get on that course without any further delay . I do not think that any of us in this Chamber today can ask the American people to tighten their belts if Uncle Sam is unwilling to tighten his belt first . And now , if I might , I would like to say a few words directly to your constituents and , incidentally , mine . My fellow Americans , 10 days ago I asked you to get things started by making a list of 10 ways to fight inflation and save energy , to exchange your list with your neighbors , and to send me a copy . I have personally read scores of the thousands of letters received at the White House , and incidentally , I have made my economic experts read some of them , too . We all benefited , at least I did , and I thank each and every one of you for this cooperation . Some of the good ideas from your home to mine have been cranked into the recommendations I have just made to the Congress and the steps I am taking as President to whip inflation right now . There were also firm warnings on what Government must not do , and I appreciated those , too . Your best suggestions for voluntary restraint and self discipline showed me that a great degree of patriotic determination and unanimity already exists in this great land . I have asked Congress for urgent specific actions it alone can take . I advised Congress of the initial steps that I am taking as President . Here is what only you can do Unless every able American pitches in , Congress and I cannot do the job . Winning our fight against inflation and waste involves total mobilization of America s greatest resources the brains , the skills , and the willpower of the American people . Here is what we must do , what each and every one of you can do To help increase food and lower prices , grow more and waste less to help save scarce fuel in the energy crisis , drive less , heat less . Every housewife knows almost exactly how much she spent for food last week . If you cannot spare a penny from your food budget and I know there are many surely you can cut the food that you waste by 5 percent . Every American motorist knows exactly how many miles he or she drives to work or to school every day and about how much mileage she or he runs up each year . If we all drive at least 5 percent fewer miles , we can save , almost unbelievably , 250 , 000 barrels of foreign oil per day . By the end of 1975 , most of us can do better than 5 percent by carpooling , taking the bus , riding bikes , or just plain walking . We can save enough gas by self discipline to meet our 1 million barrels per day goal . I think there is one final thing that all Americans can do , rich or poor , and that is share with others . We can share burdens as we can share blessings . Sharing is not easy , not easy to measure like mileage and family budgets , but I am sure that 5 percent more is not nearly enough to ask , so I ask you to share everything you can and a little bit more . And it will strengthen our spirits as well as our economy . Today I will not take more of the time of this busy Congress , for I vividly remember the rush before every recess , and the clock is already running on my specific and urgent requests for legislative action . I also remember how much Congress can get done when it puts its shoulder to the wheel . One week from tonight I have a long standing invitation in Kansas City to address the Future Farmers of America , a fine organization of wonderful young people whose help , with millions of others , is vital in this battle . I will elaborate then how volunteer inflation fighters and energy savers can further mobilize their total efforts . Since asking Miss Sylvia Porter , the well known financial writer , to help me organize an all out nationwide volunteer mobilization , I have named a White House coordinator and have enlisted the enthusiastic support and services of some 17 other distinguished Americans to help plan for citizen and private group participation . There will be no big Federal bureaucracy set up for this crash program . Through the courtesy of such volunteers from the communication and media fields , a very simple enlistment form will appear in many of tomorrow s newspapers along with the symbol of this new mobilization , which I am wearing on my lapel . It bears the single word WII think that tells it all . I will call upon every American to join in this massive mobilization and stick with it until we do win as a nation and as a people . Speaker and President , I stand on a spot hallowed by history . Many Presidents have come here many times to solicit , to scold , to flatter , to exhort the Congress to support them in their leadership . Once in a great while , Presidents have stood here and truly inspired the most skeptical and the most sophisticated audience of their co equal partners in Government . Perhaps once or twice in a generation is there such a joint session . I do not expect this one to be . Only two of my predecessors have come in person to call upon Congress for a declaration of war , and I shall not do that . But I say to you with all sincerity that our inflation , our public enemy number one , will , unless whipped , destroy our country , our homes , our liberties , our property , and finally our national pride , as surely as any well armed wartime enemy . I concede there will be no sudden Pearl Harbor to shock us into unity and to sacrifice , but I think we have had enough early warnings . The time to intercept is right now . The time to intercept is almost gone . My friends and former colleagues , will you enlist now My friends and fellow Americans , will you enlist now Together with discipline and determination , we will win . I thank you very much .<speech_sep>