To the Senate and House of Representatives By a joint resolution of Congress approved March 3 , 1877 , the President was authorized and directed to accept the colossal statue of Liberty Enlightening the World when presented by the citizens of the French Republic , and to designate and set apart for the erection thereof a suitable site upon either Governors or Bedloes Island , in the harbor of New York , and upon the completion thereof to cause the statue to be inaugurated with such ceremonies as will serve to testify the gratitude of our people for this expressive and felicitous memorial of the sympathy of the citizens of our sister Republic . The President was further thereby authorized to cause suitable regulations to be made for its future maintenance as a beacon and for the permanent care and preservation thereof as a monument of art and the continued good will of the great nation which aided us in our struggle for freedom . Under the authority of this resolution , on the 4th day of July , 1884 , the minister of the United States to the French Republic , by direction of the President of the United States , accepted the statue and received a deed of presentation from the Franco American Union , which is now preserved in the archives of the Department of State . I now transmit to Congress a letter to the Secretary of State from Joseph Drexel , esq . , chairman of the executive committee of the American committee on the pedestal of the great statue of Liberty Enlightening the World , dated the 27th of April , 1886 , suggesting the propriety of the further execution by the President of the joint resolution referred to by prescribing the ceremonies of inauguration to be observed upon the complete erection of the statue upon its site on Bedloes Island , in the harbor of New York . Thursday , the 3d of September , being the anniversary of the signing of the treaty of peace at Paris by which the independence of these United States was recognized and secured , has been suggested by this committee under whose auspices and agency the pedestal for the statue has been constructed as an appropriate day for the ceremonies of inauguration . The international character which has been imprinted upon this work by the joint resolution of 1877 makes it incumbent upon Congress to provide means to carry their resolution into effect . Therefore I recommend the appropriation of such sum of money as in the judgment of Congress shall be deemed adequate and proper to defray the cost of the inauguration of this statue . I have been informed by the committee that certain expenses have been incurred in the care and custody of the statue since it was deposited on Bedloes Island , and the phraseology of the joint resolution providing for the permanent care and preservation thereof as a monument of art would seem to include the payment by the United States of the expense so incurred since the reception of the statue in this country . The action of the French Government and people in relation to the presentation of this statue to the United States will , I hope , meet with hearty and responsive action upon the part of Congress , in which the Executive will be most happy to cooperate .<speech_sep>Fellow Citizens In the presence of this vast assemblage of my countrymen I am about to supplement and seal by the oath which I shall take the manifestation of the will of a great and free people . In the exercise of their power and right of self government they have committed to one of their fellow citizens a supreme and sacred trust , and he here consecrates himself to their service . This impressive ceremony adds little to the solemn sense of responsibility with which I contemplate the duty I owe to all the people of the land . Nothing can relieve me from anxiety lest by any act of mine their interests may suffer , and nothing is needed to strengthen my resolution to engage every faculty and effort in the promotion of their welfare . Amid the din of party strife the people s choice was made , but its attendant circumstances have demonstrated anew the strength and safety of a government by the people . In each succeeding year it more clearly appears that our democratic principle needs no apology , and that in its fearless and faithful application is to be found the surest guaranty of good government . But the best results in the operation of a government wherein every citizen has a share largely depend upon a proper limitation of purely partisan zeal and effort and a correct appreciation of the time when the heat of the partisan should be merged in the patriotism of the citizen . To day the executive branch of the Government is transferred to new keeping . But this is still the Government of all the people , and it should be none the less an object of their affectionate solicitude . At this hour the animosities of political strife , the bitterness of partisan defeat , and the exultation of partisan triumph should be supplanted by an ungrudging acquiescence in the popular will and a sober , conscientious concern for the general weal . Moreover , if from this hour we cheerfully and honestly abandon all sectional prejudice and distrust , and determine , with manly confidence in one another , to work out harmoniously the achievements of our national destiny , we shall deserve to realize all the benefits which our happy form of government can bestow . On this auspicious occasion we may well renew the pledge of our devotion to the Constitution , which , launched by the founders of the Republic and consecrated by their prayers and patriotic devotion , has for almost a century borne the hopes and the aspirations of a great people through prosperity and peace and through the shock of foreign conflicts and the perils of domestic strife and vicissitudes . By the Father of his Country our Constitution was commended for adoption as the result of a spirit of amity and mutual concession . In that same spirit it should be administered , in order to promote the lasting welfare of the country and to secure the full measure of its priceless benefits to us and to those who will succeed to the blessings of our national life . The large variety of diverse and competing interests subject to Federal control , persistently seeking the recognition of their claims , need give us no fear that the greatest good to the greatest number will fail to be accomplished if in the halls of national legislation that spirit of amity and mutual concession shall prevail in which the Constitution had its birth . If this involves the surrender or postponement of private interests and the abandonment of local advantages , compensation will be found in the assurance that the common interest is subserved and the general welfare advanced . In the discharge of my official duty I shall endeavor to be guided by a just and unstrained . construction of the Constitution , a careful observance of the distinction between the powers granted to the Federal Government and those reserved to the States or to the people , and by a cautious appreciation of those functions which by the Constitution and laws have been especially assigned to the executive branch of the Government . But he who takes the oath today to preserve , protect , and defend the Constitution of the United States only assumes the solemn obligation which every patriotic citizen on the farm , in the workshop , in the busy marts of trade , and everywhere should share with him . The Constitution which prescribes his oath , my countrymen , is yours the Government you have chosen him to administer for a time is yours the suffrage which executes the will of freemen is yours the laws and the entire scheme of our civil rule , from the town meeting to the State capitals and the national capital , is yours . Your every voter , as surely as your Chief Magistrate , under the same high sanction , though in a different sphere , exercises a public trust . Nor is this all . Every citizen owes to the country a vigilant watch and close scrutiny of its public servants and a fair and reasonable estimate of their fidelity and usefulness . Thus is the people s will impressed upon the whole framework of our civil polity municipal , State , and Federal and this is the price of our liberty and the inspiration of our faith in the Republic . It is the duty of those serving the people in public place to closely limit public expenditures to the actual needs of the Government economically administered , because this bounds the right of the Government to exact tribute from the earnings of labor or the property of the citizen , and because public extravagance begets extravagance among the people . We should never be ashamed of the simplicity and prudential economies which are best suited to the operation of a republican form of government and most compatible with the mission of the American people . Those who are selected for a limited time to manage public affairs are still of the people , and may do much by their example to encourage , consistently with the dignity of their official functions , that plain way of life which among their fellow citizens aids integrity and promotes thrift and prosperity . The genius of our institutions , the needs of our people in their home life , and the attention which is demanded for the settlement and development of the resources of our vast territory dictate the scrupulous avoidance of any departure from that foreign policy commended by the history , the traditions , and the prosperity of our Republic . It is the policy of independence , favored by our position and defended by our known love of justice and by our power . It is the policy of peace suitable to our interests . It is the policy of neutrality , rejecting any share in foreign broils and ambitions upon other continents and repelling their intrusion here . It is the policy of Monroe and of Washington and Jefferson Peace , commerce , and honest friendship with all nations entangling alliance with none . A due regard for the interests and prosperity of all the people demands that our finances shall be established upon such a sound and sensible basis as shall secure the safety and confidence of business interests and make the wage of labor sure and steady , and that our system of revenue shall be so adjusted as to relieve the people of unnecessary taxation , having a due regard to the interests of capital invested and workingmen employed in American industries , and preventing the accumulation of a surplus in the Treasury to tempt extravagance and waste . Care for the property of the nation and for the needs of future settlers requires that the public domain should be protected from purloining schemes and unlawful occupation . The conscience of the people demands that the Indians within our boundaries shall be fairly and honestly treated as wards of the Government and their education and civilization promoted with a view to their ultimate citizenship , and that polygamy in the Territories , destructive of the family relation and offensive to the moral sense of the civilized world , shall be repressed . The laws should be rigidly enforced which prohibit the immigration of a servile class to compete with American labor , with no intention of acquiring citizenship , and bringing with them and retaining habits and customs repugnant to our civilization . The people demand reform in the administration of the Government and the application of business principles to public affairs . As a means to this end , civil service reform should be in good faith enforced . Our citizens have the right to protection from the incompetency of public employees who hold their places solely as the reward of partisan service , and from the corrupting influence of those who promise and the vicious methods of those who expect such rewards and those who worthily seek public employment have the right to insist that merit and competency shall be recognized instead of party subserviency or the surrender of honest political belief . In the administration of a government pledged to do equal and exact justice to all men there should be no pretext for anxiety touching the protection of the freedmen in their rights or their security in the enjoyment of their privileges under the Constitution and its amendments . All discussion as to their fitness for the place accorded to them as American citizens is idle and unprofitable except as it suggests the necessity for their improvement . The fact that they are citizens entitles them to all the rights due to that relation and charges them with all its duties , obligations , and responsibilities . These topics and the constant and ever varying wants of an active and enterprising population may well receive the attention and the patriotic endeavor of all who make and execute the Federal law . Our duties are practical and call for industrious application , an intelligent perception of the claims of public office , and , above all , a firm determination , by united action , to secure to all the people of the land the full benefits of the best form of government ever vouchsafed to man . And let us not trust to human effort alone , but humbly acknowledging the power and goodness of Almighty God , who presides over the destiny of nations , and who has at all times been revealed in our country s history , let us invoke His aid and His blessings upon our labors .<speech_sep>House of Representatives I return without my approval House bill No . 4956 , entitled An act directing the coinage of the silver bullion held in the Treasury , and for other purposes . My strong desire to avoid disagreement with those in both Houses of Congress who have supported this bill would lead me to approve it if I could believe that the public good would not be thereby endangered and that such action on my part would be a proper discharge of official duty . Inasmuch , however , as I am unable to satisfy myself that the proposed legislation is either wise or opportune , my conception of the obligations and responsibilities attached to the great office I hold forbids the indulgence of my personal desire and inexorably confines me to that course which is dictated by my reason and judgment and pointed out by a sincere purpose to protect and promote the general interests of our people . The financial disturbance which swept over the country during the last year was unparalleled in its severity and disastrous consequences . There seemed to be almost an entire displacement of faith in our financial ability and a loss of confidence in our fiscal policy . Among those who attempted to assign causes for our distress it was very generally conceded that the operation of a provision of law then in force which required the Government to purchase monthly a large amount of silver bullion and issue its notes in payment therefor was either entirely or to a large extent responsible for our condition . This led to the repeal on the 1st day of November , 1893 , of this statutory provision . We had , however , fallen so low in the depths of depression and timidity and apprehension had so completely gained control in financial circles that our rapid recuperation could not be reasonably expected . Our recovery has , nevertheless , steadily progressed , and though less than five months have elapsed since the repeal of the mischievous silver purchase requirement a wholesome improvement is unmistakably apparent . Confidence in our absolute solvency is to such an extent reinstated and faith in our disposition to adhere to sound financial methods is so far restored as to produce the most encouraging results both at home and abroad . The wheels of domestic industry have been slowly set in motion and the tide of foreign investment has again started in our direction . Our recovery being so well under way , nothing should be done to check our convalescence nor should we forget that a relapse at this time would almost surely reduce us to a lower stage of financial distress than that from which we are just emerging . I believe that if the bill under consideration should become a law it would be regarded as a retrogression from the financial intentions indicated by our recent repeal of the provision forcing silver bullion purchases that it would weaken , if it did not destroy , returning faith and confidence in our sound financial tendencies , and that as a consequence our progress to renewed business health would be unfortunately checked and a return to our recent distressing plight seriously threatened . This proposed legislation is so related to the currency conditions growing out of the law compelling the purchase of silver by the Government that a glance at such conditions and a partial review of the law referred to may not be unprofitable . Between the 14th day of August , 1890 , when the law became operative , and the 1st day of November , 1893 , when the clause it contained directing the purchase of silver was repealed , there were purchased by the Secretary of the Treasury more than 168 , 000 , 000 ounces of silver bullion . In payment for this bullion the Government issued its Treasury notes , of various denominations , amounting to nearly 156 , 000 , 000 , which notes were immediately added to the currency in circulation among our people . Such notes were by the law made legal tender in payment of all debts , public and private , except when otherwise expressly stipulated , and were made receivable for customs , taxes , and all public dues , and when so received might be reissued . They were also permitted to be held by banking associations as a part of their lawful reserves . On the demand of the holders these Treasury notes were to be redeemed in gold or silver coin , in the discretion of the Secretary of the Treasury but it was declared as a part of this redemption provision that it was the established policy of the United States to maintain the two metals on a parity with each other upon the present legal ratio or such ratio as may be provided by law . The money coined from such bullion was to be standard silver dollars , and after directing the immediate coinage of a little less than 28 , 000 , 000 ounces the law provided that as much of the remaining bullion should be thereafter coined as might be necessary to provide for the redemption of the Treasury notes issued on its purchase , and that any gain or seigniorage arising from such coinage shall be accounted for and paid into the Treasury . This gain or seigniorage evidently indicates so much of the bullion owned by the Government as should remain after using a sufficient amount to coin as many standard silver dollars as should equal in number the dollars represented by the Treasury notes issued in payment of the entire quantity of bullion . These Treasury notes now outstanding and in circulation amount to 152 , 951 , 280 , and although there has been thus far but a comparatively small amount of this bullion coined , yet the so called gain or seigniorage , as above defined , which would arise from the coinage of the entire mass has been easily ascertained to be a quantity of bullion sufficient to make when coined 55 , 156 , 681 standard silver dollars . Considering the present intrinsic relation between gold and silver , the maintenance of the parity between the two metals , as mentioned in this law , can mean nothing less than the maintenance of such a parity in the estimation and confidence of the people who use our money in their daily transactions . Manifestly the maintenance of this parity can only be accomplished , so far as it is affected by these Treasury notes and in the estimation of the holders of the same , by giving to such holders on their redemption the coin , whether it is gold or silver , which they prefer . It follows that while in terms the law leaves the choice of coin to be paid on such redemption to the discretion of the Secretary of the Treasury , the exercise of this discretion , if opposed to the demands of the holder , is entirely inconsistent with the effective and beneficial maintenance of the parity between the two metals . If both gold and silver are to serve us as money and if they together are to supply to our people a safe and stable currency , the necessity of preserving this parity is obvious . Such necessity has been repeatedly conceded in the platforms of both political parties and in our Federal statutes . It is nowhere more emphatically recognized than in the recent law which repealed the provision under which the bullion now on hand was purchased . This law insists upon the maintenance of the parity in value of the coins of the two metals and the equal power of every dollar at all times in the markets and in the payment of debts . The Secretary of the Treasury has therefore , for the best of reasons , not only promptly complied with every demand for the redemption of these Treasury notes in gold , but the present situation as well as the letter and spirit of the law appear plainly to justify , if they do not enjoin upon him , a continuation of such redemption . The conditions I have endeavored to present may be thus summarized First . The Government has purchased and now has on hand sufficient silver bullion to permit the coinage of all the silver dollars necessary to redeem in such dollars the Treasury notes issued for the purchase of said silver bullion , and enough besides to coin , as gain or seigniorage , 55 , 156 , 681 additional standard silver dollars . Second . There are outstanding and now in circulation Treasury notes issued in payment of the bullion purchased amounting to 152 , 951 , 280 . These notes are legal tender in payment of all debts , public and private , except when otherwise expressly stipulated they are receivable for customs , taxes , and all public dues when held by banking associations they may be counted as part of their lawful reserves , and they are redeemed by the Government in gold at the option of the holders . These advantageous attributes were deliberately attached to these notes at the time of their issue . They are fully understood by our people to whom such notes have been distributed as currency , and have inspired confidence in their safety and value , and have undoubtedly thus induced their continued and contented use as money , instead of anxiety for their redemption . Having referred to some incidents which I deem relevant to the subject , it remains for me to submit a specific statement of my objections to the bill now under consideration . This bill consists of two sections , excluding one which merely appropriates a sum sufficient to carry the act into effect . The first section provides for the immediate coinage of the silver bullion in the Treasury which represents the so called gain or seigniorage , or which would arise from the coinage of all the bullion on hand , which gain or seigniorage this section declares to be 55 , 156 , 681 . It directs that the money so coined or the certificates issued thereon shall be used in the payment of public expenditures , and provides that if the needs of the Treasury demand it the Secretary of the Treasury may , in his discretion , issue silver certificates in excess of such coinage , not exceeding the amount of seigniorage in said section authorized to be coined . The second section directs that as soon as possible after the coinage of this seigniorage the remainder of the bullion held by the Government shall be coined into legal tender standard silver dollars , and that they shall be held in the Treasury for the redemption of the Treasury notes issued in the purchase of said bullion . It provides that as fast as the bullion shall be coined for the redemption of said notes they shall not be reissued , but shall be canceled and destroyed in amounts equal to the coin held at any time in the Treasury derived from the coinage provided for , and that silver certificates shall be issued on such coin in the manner now provided by law . It is , however , especially declared in said section that the act shall not be construed to change existing laws relating to the legal tender character or mode of redemption of the Treasury notes issued for the purchase of the silver bullion to be coined . The entire bill is most unfortunately constructed . Nearly every sentence presents uncertainty and invites controversy as to its meaning and intent . The first section is especially faulty in this respect , and it is extremely doubtful whether its language will permit the consummation of its supposed purposes . I am led to believe that the promoters of the bill intended in this section to provide for the coinage of the bullion constituting the gain or seigniorage , as it is called , into standard silver dollars , and yet there is positively nothing in the section to prevent its coinage into any description of silver coins now authorized under any existing law . I suppose this section was also intended , in case the needs of the Treasury called for money faster than the seigniorage bullion could actually be coined , to permit the issue of silver certificates in advance of such coinage but its language would seem to permit the issuance of such certificates to double the amount of seigniorage as stated , one half of which would not represent an ounce of silver in the Treasury . The debate upon this section in the Congress developed an earnest and positive difference of opinion as to its object and meaning . In any event , I am clear that the present perplexities and embarrassments of the Secretary of the Treasury ought not to be augmented by devolving upon him the execution of a law so uncertain and confused . I am not willing , however , to rest my objection to this section solely on these grounds . In my judgment sound finance does not commend a further infusion of silver into our currency at this time unaccompanied by further adequate provision for the maintenance in our Treasury of a safe gold reserve . Doubts also arise as to the meaning and construction of the second section of the bill . If the silver dollars therein directed to be coined are , as the section provides , to be held in the Treasury for the redemption of Treasury notes , it is suggested that , strictly speaking , certificates can not be issued on such coin in the manner now provided by law , because these dollars are money held in the Treasury for the express purpose of redeeming Treasury notes on demand , which would ordinarily mean that they were set apart for the purpose of substituting them for these Treasury notes . They are not , therefore , held in such a way as to furnish a basis for certificates according to any provision of existing law . If however , silver certificates can properly be issued upon these dollars , there is nothing in the section to indicate the characteristics and functions of these certificates . If they were to be of the same character as silver certificates in circulation under existing laws , they would at best be receivable only for customs , taxes , and all public dues and under the language of this section it is , to say the least , extremely doubtful whether the certificates it contemplates would be lawfully received even for such purposes . Whatever else may be said of the uncertainties of expression in this bill , they certainly ought not to be found in legislation affecting subjects so important and far reaching as our finances and currency . In stating other and more important reasons for my disapproval of this section I shall , however , assume that under its provisions the Treasury notes issued in payment for silver bullion will continue to be redeemed as heretofore , in silver or gold , at the option of the holders , and that if when they are presented for redemption or reach the Treasury in any other manner there are in the Treasury coined silver dollars equal in nominal value to such Treasury notes , then and in that case the notes will be destroyed and silver certificates to an equal amount be substituted . I am convinced that this scheme is ill advised and dangerous . As an ultimate result of its operation Treasury notes , which are legal tender for all debts , public and private , and which are redeemable in gold or silver at the option of the holder , will be replaced by silver certificates , which , whatever may be their character and description , will have none of these qualities . In anticipation of this result and as an immediate effect the Treasury notes will naturally appreciate in value and desirability . The fact that gold can be realized upon them and the further fact that their destruction has been decreed when they reach the Treasury must tend to their withdrawal from general circulation to be immediately presented for gold redemption or to be hoarded for presentation at a more convenient season . The sequel of both operations will be a large addition to the silver currency in our circulation and a corresponding reduction of gold in the Treasury . The argument has been made that these things will not occur at once , because a long time must elapse before the coinage of anything but the seigniorage can be entered upon . If the physical effects of the execution of the second section of this bill are not to be realized until far in the future , this may furnish a strong reason why it should not be passed so much in advance but the postponement of its actual operation can not prevent the fear and loss of confidence and nervous precaution which would immediately follow its passage and bring about its worst consequences . I regard this section of the bill as embodying a plan by which the Government will be obliged to pay out its scanty store of gold for no other purpose than to force an unnatural addition of silver money into the hands of our people . This is an exact reversal of the policy which safe finance dictates if we are to preserve parity between gold and silver and maintain sensible bimetallism . We have now outstanding more than 338 , 000 , 000 in silver certificates issued under existing laws . They are serving the purpose of money usefully and without question . Our gold reserve , amounting to only a little more than 100 , 000 , 000 , is directly charged with the redemption of 346 , 000 , 000 of United States notes . When it is proposed to inflate our silver currency it is a time for strengthening our gold reserve instead of depleting it . I can not conceive of a longer step toward silver monometallism than we take when we spend our gold to buy silver certificates for circulation , especially in view of the practical difficulties surrounding the replenishment of our gold . This leads me to earnestly present the desirability of granting to the Secretary of the Treasury a better power than now exists to issue bonds to protect our gold reserve when for any reason it should be necessary . Our currency is in such a confused condition and our financial affairs are apt to assume at any time so critical a position that it seems to me such a course is dictated by ordinary prudence . I am not insensible to the arguments in favor of coining the bullion seigniorage now in the Treasury , and I believe it could be done safely and with advantage if the Secretary of the Treasury had the power to issue bonds at a low rate of interest under authority in substitution of that now existing and better suited to the protection of the Treasury . I hope a way will present itself in the near future for the adjustment of our monetary affairs in such a comprehensive and conservative manner as will accord to silver its proper place in our currency but in the meantime I am extremely solicitous that whatever action we take on this subject may be such as to prevent loss and discouragement to our people at home and the destruction of confidence in our financial management abroad .<speech_sep>To the Congress In my last annual message the evils of our present financial system were plainly pointed out and the causes and means of the depletion of Government gold were explained . It was therein stated that after all the efforts that had been made by the executive branch of the Government to protect our gold reserve by the issuance of bonds amounting to more than 162 , 000 , 000 , such reserve then amounted to but little more than 79 , 000 , 000 that about 16 , 000 , 000 had been withdrawn from such reserve during the month next previous to the date of that message , and that quite large withdrawals for shipment in the immediate future were predicted . The contingency then feared has reached us , and the withdrawals of gold since the communication referred to and others that appear inevitable threaten such a depletion in our Government gold reserve as brings us face to face to the necessity of further action for its protection . This condition is intensified by the prevalence in certain quarters of sudden and unusual apprehension and timidity in business circles . We are in the midst of another season of perplexity caused by our dangerous and fatuous financial operations . These may be expected to recur with certainty as long as there is no amendment in our financial system . If in this particular instance our predicament is at all influenced by a recent insistence upon the position we should occupy in our relation to certain questions concerning our foreign policy , this furnishes a signal and impressive warning that even the patriotic sentiment of our people is not an adequate substitute for a sound financial policy . Of course there can be no doubt in any thoughtful mind as to the complete solvency of our nation , nor can there be any just apprehension that the American people will be satisfied with less than an honest payment of our public obligations in the recognized money of the world . We should not overlook the fact , however , that aroused fear is unreasoning and must be taken into account in all efforts to avert possible loss and the sacrifice of our people s interests . The real and sensible cure for our recurring troubles can only be effected by a complete change in our financial scheme . Pending that the executive branch of the Government will not relax its efforts nor abandon its determination to use every means within its reach to maintain before the world American credit , nor will there be any hesitation in exhibiting its confidence in the resources of our country and the constant patriotism of our people . In view , however , of the peculiar situation now confronting us , I have ventured to herein express the earnest hope that the Congress , in default of the inauguration of a better system of finance , will not take a recess from its labors before it has by legislative enactment or declaration done something not only to remind those apprehensive among our own people that the resources of their Government and a scrupulous regard for honest dealing afford a sure guaranty of unquestioned safety and soundness , but to reassure the world that with these factors and the patriotism of our citizens the ability and determination of our nation to meet in any circumstances every obligation it incurs do not admit of question . I ask at the hands of the Congress such prompt aid as it alone has the power to give to prevent in a time of fear and apprehension any sacrifice of the people s interests and the public funds or the impairment of our public credit in an effort by Executive action to relieve the dangers of the present emergency .<speech_sep>To the House of Representatives I herewith return without approval House bill No . 7864 , entitled An act to amend the immigration laws of the United States . By the first section of this bill it is proposed to amend section 1 of the act of March 3 , 1891 , relating to immigration by adding to the classes of aliens thereby excluded from admission to the United States the following All persons physically capable and over 16 years of age who can not read and write the English language or some other language but a person not so able to read and write who is over 50 years of age and is the parent or grandparent of a qualified immigrant over 21 years of age and capable of supporting such parent or grandparent may accompany such immigrant , or such a parent or grandparent may be sent for and come to join the family of a child or grandchild over 21 years of age similarly qualified and capable , and a wife or minor child not so able to read and write may accompany or be sent for and come and join the husband or parent similarly qualified and capable . A radical departure from our national policy relating to immigration is here presented . Heretofore we have welcomed all who came to us from other lands except those whose moral or physical condition or history threatened danger to our national welfare and safety . Relying upon the zealous watchfulness of our people to prevent injury to our political and social fabric , we have encouraged those coming from foreign countries to cast their lot with us and join in the development of our vast domain , securing in return a share in the blessings of American citizenship . A century s stupendous growth , largely due to the assimilation and thrift of millions of sturdy and patriotic adopted citizens , attests the success of this generous and free handed policy which , while guarding the people s interests , exacts from our immigrants only physical and moral soundness and a willingness and ability to work . A contemplation of the grand results of this policy can not fail to arouse a sentiment in its defense , for however it might have been regarded as an original proposition and viewed as an experiment its accomplishments are such that if it is to be uprooted at this late day its disadvantages should be plainly apparent and the substitute adopted should be just and adequate , free from uncertainties , and guarded against difficult or oppressive administration . It is not claimed , I believe , that the time has come for the further restriction of immigration on the ground that an excess of population overcrowds our land . It is said , however , that the quality of recent immigration is undesirable . The time is quite within recent memory when the same thing was said of immigrants who , with their descendants , are now numbered among our best citizens . It is said that too many immigrants settle in our cities , thus dangerously increasing their idle and vicious population . This is certainly a disadvantage . It can not be shown , however , that it affects all our cities , nor that it is permanent nor does it appear that this condition where it exists demands as its remedy the reversal of our present immigration policy . The claim is also made that the influx of foreign laborers deprives of the opportunity to work those who are better entitled than they to the privilege of earning their livelihood by daily toil . An unfortunate condition is certainly presented when any who are willing to labor are unemployed , but so far as this condition now exists among our people it must be conceded to be a result of phenomenal business depression and the stagnation of all enterprises in which labor is a factor . With the advent of settled and wholesome financial and economic governmental policies and consequent encouragement to the activity of capital the misfortunes of unemployed labor should , to a great extent at least , be remedied . If it continues , its natural consequences must be to check the further immigration to our cities of foreign laborers and to deplete the ranks of those already there . In the meantime those most willing and best entitled ought to be able to secure the advantages of such work as there is to do . It is proposed by the bill under consideration to meet the alleged difficulties of the situation by establishing an educational test by which the right of a foreigner to make his home with us shall be determined . Its general scheme is to prohibit from admission to our country all immigrants physically capable and over 16 years of age who can not read and write the English language or some other language , and it is provided that this test shall be applied by requiring immigrants seeking admission to read and afterwards to write not less than twenty nor more than twenty five words of the Constitution of the United States in some language , and that any immigrant failing in this shall not be admitted , but shall be returned to the country from whence he came at the expense of the steamship or railroad company which brought him . The best reason that could be given for this radical restriction of immigration is the necessity of protecting our population against degeneration and saving our national peace and quiet from imported turbulence and disorder . I can not believe that we would be protected against these evils by limiting immigration to those who can read and write in any language twenty five words of our Constitution . In my opinion , it is infinitely more safe to admit a hundred thousand immigrants who , though unable to read and write , seek among us only a home and opportunity to work than to admit one of those unruly agitators and enemies of governmental control who can not only read and write , but delights in arousing by inflammatory speech the illiterate and peacefully inclined to discontent and tumult . Violence and disorder do not originate with illiterate laborers . They are , rather , the victims of the educated agitator . The ability to read and write , as required in this bill , in and of itself affords , in my opinion , a misleading test of contented industry and supplies unsatisfactory evidence of desirable citizenship or a proper apprehension of the benefits of our institutions . If any particular element of our illiterate immigration is to be feared for other causes than illiteracy , these causes should be dealt with directly , instead of making illiteracy the pretext for exclusion , to the detriment of other illiterate immigrants against whom the real cause of complaint can not be alleged . The provisions intended to rid that part of the proposed legislation already referred to from obvious hardship appears to me to be indefinite and inadequate . A parent , grandparent , wife , or minor child of a qualified immigrant , though unable to read and write , may accompany the immigrant or be sent for to join his family , provided the immigrant is capable of supporting such relative . These exceptions to the general rule of exclusion contained in the bill were made to prevent the separation of families , and yet neither brothers nor sisters are provided for . In order that relatives who are provided for may be reunited , those still in foreign lands must be sent for to join the immigrant here . What formality is necessary to constitute this prerequisite , and how are the facts of relationship and that the relative is sent for to be established Are the illiterate relatives of immigrants who have come here under prior laws entitled to the advantage of these exceptions A husband who can read and write and who determines to abandon his illiterate wife abroad will find here under this law an absolutely safe retreat . The illiterate relatives mentioned must not only be sent for , but such immigrant must be capable of supporting them when they arrive . This requirement proceeds upon the assumption that the foreign relatives coming here are in every case , by reason of poverty , liable to become a public charge unless the immigrant is capable of their support . The contrary is very often true . And yet if unable to read and write , though quite able and willing to support themselves and their relatives here besides , they could not be admitted under the provisions of this bill if the immigrant was impoverished , though the aid of his fortunate but illiterate relative might be the means of saving him from pauperism . The fourth section of this bill provides That it shall be unlawful for any male alien who has not in good faith made his declaration before the proper court of his intention to become a citizen of the United States to be employed on any public works of the United States or to come regularly or habitually into the United States by land or water for the purpose of engaging in any mechanical trade or manual labor for wages or salary , returning from time to time to a foreign country . The fifth section provides That it shall be unlawful for any person , partnership , company , or corporation knowingly to employ any alien coming into the United States in violation of the next preceding section of this act . The prohibition against the employment of aliens upon any public works of the United States is in line with other legislation of a like character . It is quite a different thing , however , to declare it a crime for an alien to come regularly and habitually into the United States for the purpose of obtaining work from private parties , if such alien returns from time to time to a foreign country , and to constitute any employment of such alien a criminal offense . When we consider these provisions of the bill in connection with our long northern frontier and the boundaries of our States and Territories , often but an imaginary line separating them from the British dominions , and recall the friendly intercourse between the people who are neighbors on either side , the provisions of this bill affecting them must be regarded as illiberal , narrow , and un American . The residents of these States and Territories have separate and especial interests which in many cases make an interchange of labor between their people and their alien neighbors most important , frequently with the advantage largely in favor of our citizens . This suggests the inexpediency of Federal interference with these conditions when not necessary to the correction of a substantial evil , affecting the general welfare . Such unfriendly legislation as is proposed could hardly fail to provoke retaliatory measures , to the injury of many of our citizens who now find employment on adjoining foreign soil . The uncertainty of construction to which the language of these provisions is subject is a serious objection to a statute which describes a crime . An important element in the offense sought to be created by these sections is the coming regularly or habitually into the United States . These words are impossible of definite and certain construction . The same may be said of the equally important words returning from time to time to a foreign country . A careful examination of this bill has convinced me that for the reasons given and others not specifically stated its provisions are unnecessarily harsh and oppressive , and that its defects in construction would cause vexation and its operation would result in harm to our citizens .<speech_sep>To the Congress I have this day approved House bill No . 11336 , supplementary to an act entitled An act to execute certain treaty stipulations relating to Chinese , approved the 6th day of May , 1882 . It seems to me that some suggestions and recommendations may properly accompany my approval of this bill . Its object is to more effectually accomplish by legislation the exclusion from this country of Chinese laborers . The experiment of blending the social habits and mutual race idiosyncrasies of the Chinese laboring classes with those of the great body of the people of the United States has been proved by the experience of twenty years , and ever since the Burlingame treaty of 1868 , to be in every sense unwise , impolitic , and injurious to both nations . With the lapse of time the necessity for its abandonment has grown in force , until those having in charge the Government of the respective countries have resolved to modify and sufficiently abrogate all those features of prior conventional arrangements which permitted the coming of Chinese laborers to the United States . In modification of prior conventions the treaty of November 17 , 1880 , was concluded , whereby , in the first article thereof , it was agreed that the United States should at will regulate , limit , or suspend the coining of Chinese laborers to the United States , but not absolutely prohibit it and under this article an act of Congress , approved on May 6 , 1882 see 22 Statutes at Large , p . 58 , and amended July 5 , 1884 23 Statutes at Large , p . 115 , suspended for ten years the coming of Chinese laborers to the United States , and regulated the going and coming of such Chinese laborers as were at that time in the United States . It was , however , soon made evident that the mercenary greed of the parties who were trading in the labor of this class of the Chinese population was proving too strong for the just execution of the law , and that the virtual defeat of the object and intent of both law and treaty was being fraudulently accomplished by false pretense and perjury , contrary to the expressed will of both Governments . To such an extent has the successful violation of the treaty and the laws enacted for its execution progressed that the courts in the Pacific States have been for some time past overwhelmed by the examination of cases of Chinese laborers who are charged with having entered our ports under fraudulent certificates of return or seek to establish by perjury the claim of prior residence . Such demonstration of the inoperative and inefficient condition of the treaty and law has produced deep seated and increasing discontent among the people of the United States , and especially with those resident on the Pacific Coast . This has induced me to omit no effort to find an effectual remedy for the evils complained of and to answer the earnest popular demand for the absolute exclusion of Chinese laborers having objects and purposes unlike our own and wholly disconnected with American citizenship . Aided by the presence in this country of able and intelligent diplomatic and consular officers of the Chinese Government , and the representations made from time to time by our minister in China under the instructions of the Department of State , the actual condition of public sentiment and the status of affairs in the United States have been fully made known to the Government of China . The necessity for remedy has been fully appreciated by that Government , and in August , 1886 , our minister at Peking received from the Chinese foreign office a communication announcing that China , of her own accord , proposed to establish a system of strict and absolute prohibition of her laborers , under heavy penalties , from coming to the United States , and likewise to prohibit the return to the United States of any Chinese laborer who had at any time gone back to China , in order in the words of the communication that the Chinese laborers may gradually be reduced in number and causes of danger averted and lives preserved . This view of the Chinese Government , so completely in harmony with that of the United States , was by my direction speedily formulated in a treaty draft between the two nations , embodying the propositions so presented by the Chinese foreign office . The deliberations , frequent oral discussions , and correspondence on the general questions that ensued have been fully communicated by me to the Senate at the present session , and , as contained in Senate Executive Document parts 1 and 2 , and in Senate Executive Document No . 272 , may be properly referred to as containing a complete history of the transaction . It is thus easy to learn how the joint desires and unequivocal mutual understanding of the two Governments were brought into articulated form in the treaty , which , after a mutual exhibition of plenary powers from the respective Governments , was signed and concluded by the plenipotentiaries of the United States and China at this capital on March 12 last . Being submitted for the advice and consent of the Senate , its confirmation , on the 7th day of May last , was accompanied by two amendments which that body ingrafted upon it . On the 12th day of the same month the Chinese minister , who was the plenipotentiary of his Government in the negotiation and the conclusion of the treaty , in a note to the Secretary of State gave his approval to these amendments , as they did not alter the terms of the treaty , and the amendments were at once telegraphed to China , whither the original treaty had previously been sent immediately after its signature on March 12 . On the 13th day of last month I approved Senate bill No . 3304 , to prohibit the coming of Chinese laborers to the United States . This bill was intended to supplement the treaty , and was approved in the confident anticipation of an early exchange of ratifications of the treaty and its amendments and the proclamation of the same , upon which event the legislation so approved was by its terms to take effect . No information of any definite action upon the treaty by the Chinese Government was received until the 21st ultimo the day the bill which I have just approved was presented to me when a telegram from our minister at Peking to the Secretary of State announced the refusal of the Chinese Government to exchange ratifications of the treaty unless further discussion should be had with a view to shorten the period stipulated in the treaty for the exclusion of Chinese laborers and to change the conditions agreed on , which should entitle any Chinese laborer who might go back to China to return again to the United States . By a note from the charge d affaires ad interim of China to the Secretary of State , received on the evening of the 25th ultimo a copy of which is herewith transmitted , together with the reply thereto , a third amendment is proposed , whereby the certificate under which any departing Chinese laborer alleging the possession of property in the United States would be enabled to return to this country should be granted by the Chinese consul instead of the United States collector , as had been provided in the treaty . The obvious and necessary effect of this last proposition would be practically to place the execution of the treaty beyond the control of the United States . Article I of the treaty proposed to be so materially altered had in the course of the negotiations been settled in acquiescence with the request of the Chinese plenipotentiary and to his expressed satisfaction . In 1886 , as appears in the documents heretofore referred to , the Chinese foreign office had formally proposed to our minister strict exclusion of Chinese laborers from the United States without limitation , and had otherwise and more definitely stated that no term whatever for exclusion was necessary , for the reason that China would of itself take steps to prevent its laborers from coming to the United States . In the course of the negotiations that followed suggestions from the same quarter led to the insertion in behalf of the United States of a term of thirty years , and this term , upon the representations of the Chinese plenipotentiary , was reduced to twenty years , and finally so agreed upon . Article II was wholly of Chinese origination , and to that alone owes its presence in the treaty . And it is here pertinent to remark that everywhere in the United States laws for the collection of debts are equally available to all creditors without respect to race , sex , nationality , or place of residence , and equally with the citizens or subjects of the most favored nations and with the citizens of the United States recovery can be had in any court of justice in the United States by a subject of China , whether of the laboring or any other class . No disability accrues from nonresidence of a plaintiff , whose claim can be enforced in the usual way by him or his assignee or attorney in our courts of justice . In this respect it can not be alleged that there exists the slightest discrimination against Chinese subjects , and it is a notable fact that large trading firms and companies and individual merchants and traders of that nation are profitably established at numerous points throughout the Union , in whose hands every claim transmitted by an absent Chinaman of a just and lawful nature could be completely enforced . The admitted and paramount right and duty of every government to exclude from its borders all elements of foreign population which for any reason retard its prosperity or are detrimental to the moral and physical health of its people must be regarded as a recognized canon of international law and intercourse . China herself has not dissented from this doctrine , but has , by the expressions to which I have referred , led us confidently to rely upon such action on her part in cooperation with us as would enforce the exclusion of Chinese laborers from our country . This cooperation has not , however , been accorded us . Thus from the unexpected and disappointing refusal of the Chinese Government to confirm the acts of its authorized agent and to carry into effect an international agreement , the main feature of which was voluntarily presented by that Government for our acceptance , and which had been the subject of long and careful deliberation , an emergency has arisen , in which the Government of the United States is called upon to act in self defense by the exercise of its legislative power . I can not but regard the expressed demand on the part of China for a reexamination and renewed discussion of the topics so completely covered by mutual treaty stipulations as an indefinite postponement and practical abandonment of the objects we have in view , to which the Government of China may justly be considered as pledged . The facts and circumstances which I have narrated lead me , in the performance of what seems to me to be my official duty , to join the Congress in dealing legislatively with the question of the exclusion of Chinese laborers , in lieu of further attempts to adjust it by international agreement . But while thus exercising our undoubted right in the interest of our people and for the general welfare of our country , justice and fairness seem to require that some provision should be made by act or joint resolution under which such Chinese laborers as shall actually have embarked on their return to the United States before the passage of the law this day approved , and are now on their way , may be permitted to land , provided they have duly and lawfully obtained and shall present certificates heretofore issued permitting them to return in accordance with the provisions of existing law . Nor should our recourse to legislative measures of exclusion cause us to retire from the offer we have made to indemnify such Chinese subjects as have suffered damage through violence in the remote and comparatively unsettled portions of our country at the hands of lawless men . Therefore I recommend that , without acknowledging legal liability therefor , but because it was stipulated in the treaty which has failed to take effect , and in a spirit of humanity befitting our nation , there be appropriated the sum of 276 , 619 . 75 , payable to the Chinese minister at this capital on behalf of his Government , as full indemnity for all losses and injuries sustained by Chinese subjects in the manner and under the circumstances mentioned .<speech_sep>To the Senate I transmit herewith a treaty for the arbitration of all matters in difference between the United States and Great Britain . The provisions of the treaty are the result of long and patient deliberation and represent concessions made by each party for the sake of agreement upon the general scheme . Though the result reached may not meet the views of the advocates of immediate , unlimited , and irrevocable arbitration of all international controversies , it is nevertheless confidently believed that the treaty can not fail to be everywhere recognized as making a long step in the right direction and as embodying a practical working plan by which disputes between the two countries will reach a peaceful adjustment as matter of course and in ordinary routine . In the initiation of such an important movement it must be expected that some of its features will assume a tentative character looking to a further advance , and yet it is apparent that the treaty which has been formulated not only makes war between the parties to it a remote possibility , but precludes those fears and rumors of war which of themselves too often assume the proportions of national disaster . It is eminently fitting as well as fortunate that the attempts to accomplish results so beneficent should be initiated by kindred peoples , speaking the same tongue and joined together by all the ties of common traditions , common institutions , and common aspirations . The experiment of substituting civilized methods for brute force as the means of settling inter . national questions of right will thus be tried under the happiest auspices , Its success ought not to be doubtful , and the fact that its ultimate ensuing benefits are not likely to be limited to the two countries immediately concerned should cause it to be promoted all the more eagerly . The examples set and the lesson furnished by the successful operation of this treaty are sure to be felt and taken to heart sooner or later by other nations , and will thus mark the beginning of a new epoch in civilization . Profoundly impressed as I am , therefore , by the promise of transcendent good which this treaty affords , I do not hesitate to accompany its transmission with an expression of my earnest hope that it may commend itself to the favorable consideration of the Senate .<speech_sep>To the Congress of the United States As you assemble for the discharge of the duties you have assumed as the representatives of a free and generous people , your meeting is marked by an interesting and impressive incident . With the expiration of the present session of the Congress the first century of our constitutional existence as a nation will be completed . Our survival for one hundred years is not sufficient to assure us that we no longer have dangers to fear in the maintenance , with all its promised blessings , of a government rounded upon the freedom of the people . The time rather admonishes us to soberly inquire whether in the past we have always closely kept in the course of safety , and whether we have before us a way plain and clear which leads to happiness and perpetuity . When the experiment of our Government was undertaken , the chart adopted for our guidance was the Constitution . Departure from the lines there laid down is failure . It is only by a strict adherence to the direction they indicate and by restraint within the limitations they fix that we can furnish proof to the world of the fitness of the American people for self government . The equal and exact justice of which we boast as the underlying principle of our institutions should not be confined to the relations of our citizens to each other . The Government itself is under bond to the American people that in the exercise of its functions and powers it will deal with the body of our citizens in a manner scrupulously honest and fair and absolutely just . It has agreed that American citizenship shall be the only credential necessary to justify the claim of equality before the law , and that no condition in life shall give rise to discrimination in the treatment of the people by their Government . The citizen of our Republic in its early days rigidly insisted upon full compliance with the letter of this bond , and saw stretching out before him a clear field for individual endeavor . His tribute to the support of his Government was measured by the cost of its economical maintenance , and he was secure in the enjoyment of the remaining recompense of his steady and contented toil . In those days the frugality of the people was stamped upon their Government , and was enforced by the free , thoughtful , and intelligent suffrage of the citizen . Combinations , monopolies , and aggregations of capital were either avoided or sternly regulated and restrained . The pomp and glitter of governments less free offered no temptation and presented no delusion to the plain people who , side by side , in friendly competition , wrought for the ennoblement and dignity of man , for the solution of the problem of free government , and for the achievement of the grand destiny awaiting the land which God had given them . A century has passed . Our cities are the abiding places of wealth and luxury our manufactories yield fortunes never dreamed of by the fathers of the Republic our business men are madly striving in the race for riches , and immense aggregations of capital outrun the imagination in the magnitude of their undertakings . We view with pride and satisfaction this bright picture of our country s growth and prosperity , while only a closer scrutiny develops a somber shading . Upon more careful inspection we find the wealth and luxury of our cities mingled with poverty and wretchedness and unremunerative toil . A crowded and constantly increasing urban population suggests the impoverishment of rural sections and discontent with agricultural pursuits . The farmer s son , not satisfied with his father s simple and laborious life , joins the eager chase for easily acquired wealth . We discover that the fortunes realized by our manufacturers are no longer solely the reward of sturdy industry and enlightened foresight , but that they result from the discriminating favor of the Government and are largely built upon undue exactions from the masses of our people . The gulf between employers and the employed is constantly widening , and classes are rapidly forming , one comprising the very rich and powerful , while in another are found the toiling poor . As we view the achievements of aggregated capital , we discover the existence of trusts , combinations , and monopolies , while the citizen is struggling far in the rear or is trampled to death beneath an iron heel . Corporations , which should be the carefully restrained creatures of the law and the servants of the people , are fast becoming the people s masters . Still congratulating ourselves upon the wealth and prosperity of our country and complacently contemplating every incident of change inseparable from these conditions , it is our duty as patriotic citizens to inquire at the present stage of our progress how the bond of the Government made with the people has been kept and performed . Instead of limiting the tribute drawn from our citizens to the necessities of its economical administration , the Government persists in exacting from the substance of the people millions which , unapplied and useless , lie dormant in its Treasury . This flagrant injustice and this breach of faith and obligation add to extortion the danger attending the diversion of the currency of the country from the legitimate channels of business . Under the same laws by which these results are produced the Government permits many millions more to be added to the cost of the living of our people and to be taken from our consumers , which unreasonably swell the profits of a small but powerful minority . The people must still be taxed for the support of the Government under the operation of tariff laws . But to the extent that the mass of our citizens are inordinately burdened beyond any useful public purpose and for the benefit of a favored few , the Government , under pretext of an exercise of its taxing power , enters gratuitously into partnership with these favorites , to their advantage and to the injury of a vast majority of our people . This is not equality before the law . The existing situation is injurious to the health of our entire body politic . It stifles in those for whose benefit it is permitted all patriotic love of country , and substitutes in its place selfish greed and grasping avarice . Devotion to American citizenship for its own sake and for what it should accomplish as a motive to our nation s advancement and the happiness of all our people is displaced by the assumption that the Government , instead of being the embodiment of equality , is but an instrumentality through which especial and individual advantages are to be gained . The arrogance of this assumption is unconcealed . It appears in the sordid disregard of all but personal interests , in the refusal to abate for the benefit of others one iota of selfish advantage , and in combinations to perpetuate such advantages through efforts to control legislation and improperly influence the suffrages of the people . The grievances of those not included within the circle of these beneficiaries , when fully realized , will surely arouse irritation and discontent . Our farmers , long suffering and patient , struggling in the race of life with the hardest and most unremitting toil , will not fail to see , in spite of misrepresentations and misleading fallacies , that they are obliged to accept such prices for their products as are fixed in foreign markets where they compete with the farmers of the world that their lands are declining in value while their debts increase , and that without compensating favor they are forced by the action of the Government to pay for the benefit of others such enhanced prices for the things they need that the scanty returns of their labor fail to furnish their support or leave no margin for accumulation . Our workingmen , enfranchised from all delusions and no longer frightened by the cry that their wages are endangered by a just revision of our tariff laws , will reasonably demand through such revision steadier employment , cheaper means of living in their homes , freedom for themselves and their children from the doom of perpetual servitude , and an open door to their advancement beyond the limits of a laboring class . Others of our citizens , whose comforts and expenditures are measured by moderate salaries and fixed incomes , will insist upon the fairness and justice of cheapening the cost of necessaries for themselves and their families . When to the selfishness of the beneficiaries of unjust discrimination under our laws there shall be added the discontent of those who suffer from such discrimination , we will realize the fact that the beneficent purposes of our Government , dependent upon the patriotism and contentment of our people , are endangered . Communism is a hateful thing and a menace to peace and organized government but the communism of combined wealth and capital , the outgrowth of overweening cupidity and selfishness , which insidiously undermines the justice and integrity of free institutions , is not less dangerous than the communism of oppressed poverty and toil , which , exasperated by injustice and discontent , attacks with wild disorder the citadel of rule . He mocks the people who proposes that the Government shall protect the rich and that they in turn will care for the laboring poor . Any intermediary between the people and their Government or the least delegation of the care and protection the Government owes to the humblest citizen in the land makes the boast of free institutions a glittering delusion and the pretended boon of American citizenship a shameless imposition . A just and sensible revision of our tariff laws should be made for the relief of those of our countrymen who suffer under present conditions . Such a revision should receive the support of all who love that justice and equality due to American citizenship of all who realize that in this justice and equality our Government finds its strength and its power to protect the citizen and his property of all who believe that the contented competence and comfort of many accord better with the spirit of our institutions than colossal fortunes unfairly gathered in the hands of a few of all who appreciate that the forbearance and fraternity among our people , which recognize the value of every American interest , are the surest guaranty of our national progress , and of all who desire to see the products of American skill and ingenuity in every market of the world , with a resulting restoration of American commerce . The necessity of the reduction of our revenues is so apparent as to be generally conceded , but the means by which this end shall be accomplished and the sum of direct benefit which shall result to our citizens present a controversy of the utmost importance . There should be no scheme accepted as satisfactory by which the burdens of the people are only apparently removed . Extravagant appropriations of public money , with all their demoralizing consequences , should not be tolerated , either as a means of relieving the Treasury of its present surplus or as furnishing pretext for resisting a proper reduction in tariff rates . Existing evils and injustice should be honestly recognized , boldly met , and effectively remedied . There should be no cessation of the struggle until a plan is perfected , fair and conservative toward existing industries , but which will reduce the cost to consumers of the necessaries of life , while it provides for our manufacturers the advantage of freer raw materials and permits no injury to the interests of American labor . The cause for which the battle is waged is comprised within lines clearly and distinctly defined . It should never be compromised . It is the people s cause . It can not be denied that the selfish and private interests which are so persistently heard when efforts are made to deal in a just and comprehensive manner with our tariff laws are related to , if they are not responsible for , the sentiment largely prevailing among the people that the General Government is the fountain of individual and private aid that it may be expected to relieve with paternal care the distress of citizens and communities , and that from the fullness of its Treasury it should , upon the slightest possible pretext of promoting the general good , apply public funds to the benefit of localities and individuals . Nor can it be denied that there is a growing assumption that , as against the Government and in favor of private claims and interests , the usual rules and limitations of business principles and just dealing should be waived . These ideas have been unhappily much encouraged by legislative acquiescence . Relief from contracts made with the Government is too easily accorded in favor of the citizen the failure to support claims against the Government by proof is often supplied by no better consideration than the wealth of the Government and the poverty of the claimant gratuities in the form of pensions are granted upon no other real ground than the needy condition of the applicant , or for reasons less valid and large sums are expended for public buildings and other improvements upon representations scarcely claimed to be related to public needs and necessities . The extent to which the consideration of such matters subordinate and postpone action upon subjects of great public importance , but involving no special private or partisan interest , should arrest attention and lead to reformation . A few of the numerous illustrations of this condition may be stated . The crowded condition of the calendar of the Supreme Court , and the delay to suitors and denial of justice resulting therefrom , has been strongly urged upon the attention of the Congress , with a plan for the relief of the situation approved by those well able to judge of its merits . While this subject remains without effective consideration , many laws have been passed providing for the holding of terms of inferior courts at places to suit the convenience of localities , or to lay the foundation of an application for the erection of a new public building . Repeated recommendations have been submitted for the amendment and change of the laws relating to our public lands so that their spoliation and diversion to other uses than as homes for honest settlers might be prevented . While a measure to meet this conceded necessity of reform remains awaiting the action of the Congress , many claims to the public lands and applications for their donation , in favor of States and individuals , have been allowed . A plan in aid of Indian management , recommended by those well informed as containing valuable features in furtherance of the solution of the Indian problem , has thus far failed of legislative sanction , while grants of doubtful expediency to railroad corporations , permitting them to pass through Indian reservations , have greatly multiplied . The propriety and necessity of the erection of one or more prisons for the confinement of United States convicts , and a post office building in the national capital , are not disputed . But these needs yet remain answered , while scores of public buildings have been erected where their necessity for public purposes is not apparent . A revision of our pension laws could easily be made which would rest upon just principles and provide for every worthy applicant . But while our general pension laws remain confused and imperfect , hundreds of private pension laws are annually passed , which are the sources of unjust discrimination and popular demoralization . Appropriation bills for the support of the Government are defaced by items and provisions to meet private ends , and it is freely asserted by responsible and experienced parties that a bill appropriating money for public internal improvement would fail to meet with favor unless it contained items more for local and private advantage than for public benefit . These statements can be much emphasized by an ascertainment of the proportion of Federal legislation which either bears upon its face its private character or which upon examination develops such a motive power . And yet the people wait and expect from their chosen representatives such patriotic action as will advance the welfare of the entire country and this expectation can only be answered by the performance of public duty with unselfish purpose . Our mission among the nations of the earth and our success in accomplishing the work God has given the American people to do require of those intrusted with the making and execution of our laws perfect devotion , above all other things , to the public good . This devotion will lead us to strongly resist all impatience of constitutional limitations of Federal power and to persistently check the increasing tendency to extend the scope of Federal legislation into the domain of State and local jurisdiction upon the plea of subserving the public welfare . The preservation of the partitions between proper subjects of Federal and local care and regulation is of such importance under the Constitution , which is the law of our very existence , that no consideration of expediency or sentiment should tempt us to enter upon doubtful ground . We have undertaken to discover and proclaim the richest blessings of a free government , with the Constitution as our guide . Let us follow the way it points out it will not mislead us . And surely no one who has taken upon himself the solemn obligation to support and preserve the Constitution can find justification or solace for disloyalty in the excuse that he wandered and disobeyed in search of a better way to reach the public welfare than the Constitution offers . What has been said is deemed not inappropriate at a time when , from a century s height , we view the way already trod by the American people and attempt to discover their future path . The seventh President of the United States the soldier and statesman and at all times the firm and brave friend of the people in vindication of his course as the protector of popular rights and the champion of true American citizenship , declared The ambition which leads me on is an anxious desire and a fixed determination to restore to the people unimpaired the sacred trust they have confided to my charge to , heal the wounds of the Constitution and to preserve it from further violation to persuade my countrymen , so far as I may , that it is not in a splendid government supported by powerful monopolies and aristocratical establishments that they will find happiness or their liberties protection , but in a plain system , void of pomp , protecting all and granting favors to none , dispensing its blessings like the dews of heaven , unseen and unfelt save in the freshness and beauty they contribute to produce . It is such a government that the genius of our people requires such an one only under which our States may remain for ages to come united , prosperous , and free . In pursuance of a constitutional provision requiring the President from time to time to give to the Congress information of the state of the Union , I have the satisfaction to announce that the close of the year finds the United States in the enjoyment of domestic tranquillity and at peace with all the nations . Since my last annual message our foreign relations have been strengthened and improved by performance of international good offices and by new and renewed treaties of amity , commerce , and reciprocal extradition of criminals . Those international questions which still await settlement are all reasonably within the domain of amicable negotiation , and there is no existing subject of dispute between the United States and any foreign power that is not susceptible of satisfactory adjustment by frank diplomatic treatment . The questions between Great Britain and the United States relating to the rights of American fishermen , under treaty and international comity , in the territorial waters of Canada and Newfoundland , I regret to say , are not yet satisfactorily adjusted . These matters were fully treated in my message to the Senate of February 20 1888 , together with which a convention , concluded under my authority with Her Majesty s Government on the 15th of February last , for the removal of all causes of misunderstanding , was submitted by me for the approval of the Senate . This treaty having been rejected by the Senate , I transmitted a message to the Congress on the 23d of August last reviewing the transactions and submitting for consideration certain recommendations for legislation concerning the important questions involved . Afterwards , on the 12th of September , in response to a resolution of the Senate , I again communicated fully all the information in my possession as to the action of the government of Canada affecting the commercial relations between the Dominion and the United States , including the treatment of American fishing vessels in the ports and waters of British North America . These communications have all been published , and therefore opened to the knowledge of both Houses of Congress , although two were addressed to the Senate alone . Comment upon or repetition of their contents would be superfluous , and I am not aware that anything has since occurred which should be added to the facts therein stated . Therefore I merely repeat , as applicable to the present time , the statement which will be found in my message to the Senate of September 12 last , that Since March 3 , 1887 , no case has been reported to the Department of State wherein complaint was made of unfriendly or unlawful treatment of American fishing vessels on the part of the Canadian authorities in which reparation was not promptly and satisfactorily obtained by the United States consul general at Halifax . Having essayed in the discharge of my duty to procure by negotiation the settlement of a long standing cause of dispute and to remove a constant menace to the good relations of the two countries , and continuing to be of opinion that the treaty of February last , which failed to receive the approval of the Senate , did supply a satisfactory , practical , and final adjustment , upon a basis honorable and just to both parties , of the difficult and vexed question to which it related , and having subsequently and unavailingly recommended other legislation to Congress which I hoped would suffice to meet the exigency created by the rejection of the treaty , I now again invoke the earnest and immediate attention of the Congress to the condition of this important question as it now stands before them and the country , and for the settlement of which I am deeply solicitous . Near the close of the month of October last occurrences of a deeply regrettable nature were brought to my knowledge , which made it my painful but imperative duty to obtain with as little delay as possible a new personal channel of diplomatic intercourse in this country with the Government of Great Britain . The correspondence in relation to this incident will in due course be laid before you , and will disclose the unpardonable conduct of the official referred to in his interference by advice and counsel with the suffrages of American citizens in the very crisis of the Presidential election then near at hand , and also in his subsequent public declarations to justify his action , superadding impugnment of the Executive and Senate of the United States in connection with important questions now pending in controversy between the two Governments . The offense thus committed was most grave , involving disastrous possibilities to the good relations of the United States and Great Britain , constituting a gross breach of diplomatic privilege and an invasion of the purely domestic affairs and essential sovereignty of the Government to which the envoy was accredited . Having first fulfilled the just demands of international comity by affording full opportunity for Her Majesty s Government to act in relief of the situation , I considered prolongation of discussion to be unwarranted , and thereupon declined to further recognize the diplomatic character of the person whose continuance in such function would destroy that mutual confidence which is essential to the good understanding of the two Governments and was inconsistent with the welfare and self respect of the Government of the United States . The usual interchange of communication has since continued through Her Majesty s legation in this city . My endeavors to establish by international cooperation measures for the prevention of the extermination of fur seals in Bering Sea have not been relaxed , and I have hopes of being enabled shortly to submit an effective and satisfactory conventional projet with the maritime powers for the approval of the Senate . The coastal boundary between our Alaskan possessions and British Columbia , I regret to say , has not received the attention demanded by its importance , and which on several occasions heretofore I have had the honor to recommend to the Congress . The admitted impracticability , if not impossibility , of making an accurate and precise survey and demarcation of the boundary line as it is recited in the treaty with Russia under which Alaska was ceded to the United States renders it absolutely requisite for the prevention of international jurisdictional complications that adequate appropriation for a reconnoissance and survey to obtain proper knowledge of the locality and the geographical features of the boundary should be authorized by Congress with as little delay as possible . Knowledge to be only thus obtained is an essential prerequisite for negotiation for ascertaining a common boundary , or as preliminary to any other mode of settlement . It is much to be desired that some agreement should be reached with Her Majesty s Government by which the damages to life and property on the Great Lakes may be alleviated by removing or humanely regulating the obstacles to reciprocal assistance to wrecked or stranded vessels . The act of June 19 , 1878 , which offers to Canadian vessels free access to our inland waters in aid of wrecked or disabled vessels , has not yet become effective through concurrent action by Canada . The due protection of our citizens of French origin or descent from claim of military service in the event of their returning to or visiting France has called forth correspondence which was laid before you at the last session . In the absence of conventional agreement as to naturalization , which is greatly to be desired , this Government sees no occasion to recede from the sound position it has maintained not only with regard to France , but as to all countries with which the United States have not concluded special treaties . Twice within the last year has the imperial household of Germany been visited by death and I have hastened to express the sorrow of this people , and their appreciation of the lofty character of the late aged Emperor William , and their sympathy with the heroism under suffering of his son the late Emperor Frederick . I renew my recommendation of two years ago for the passage of a bill for the refunding to certain German steamship lines of the interest upon tonnage dues illegally exacted . On the 12th 2d of April last I laid before the House of Representatives full information respecting our interests in Samoa and in the subsequent correspondence on the same subject , which will be laid before you in due course , the history of events in those islands will be found . In a message accompanying my approval , on the 1st day of October last , of a bill for the exclusion of Chinese laborers , I laid before Congress full information and all correspondence touching the negotiation of the treaty with China concluded at this capital on the 12th day of March , 1888 , and which , having been confirmed by the Senate with certain amendments , was rejected by the Chinese Government . This message contained a recommendation that a sum of money be appropriated as compensation to Chinese subjects who had suffered injuries at the hands of lawless men within our jurisdiction . Such appropriation having been duly made , the fund awaits reception by the Chinese Government . It is sincerely hoped that by the cessation of the influx of this class of Chinese subjects , in accordance with the expressed wish of both Governments , a cause of unkind feeling has been permanently removed . On the 9th of August , 1887 , notification was given by the Japanese minister at this capital of the adjournment of the conference for the revision of the treaties of Japan with foreign powers , owing to the objection of his Government to the provision in the draft jurisdictional convention which required the submission of the criminal code of the Empire to the powers in advance of its becoming operative . This notification was , however , accompanied with an assurance of Japan s intention to continue the work of revision . Notwithstanding this temporary interruption of negotiations , it is hoped that improvements may soon be secured in the jurisdictional system as respects foreigners in Japan , and relief afforded to that country from the present undue and oppressive foreign control in matters of commerce . I earnestly recommend that relief be provided for the injuries accidentally caused to Japanese subjects in the island Ikisima by the target practice of one of our vessels . A diplomatic mission from Korea has been received , and the formal intercourse between the two countries contemplated by the treaty of 1882 is now established . Legislative provision is hereby recommended to organize and equip consular courts in Korea . Persia has established diplomatic representation at this capital , and has evinced very great interest in the enterprise and achievements of our citizens . I am therefore hopeful that beneficial commercial relations between the two countries may be brought about . I announce with sincere regret that Hayti has again become the theater of insurrection , disorder , and bloodshed . The titular government of president Saloman has been forcibly overthrown and he driven out of the country to France , where he has since died . The tenure of power has been so unstable amid the war of factions that has ensued since the expulsion of President Saloman that no government constituted by the will of the Haytian people has been recognized as administering responsibly the affairs of that country . Our representative has been instructed to abstain from interference between the warring factions , and a vessel of our Navy has been sent to Haytian waters to sustain our minister and for the protection of the persons and property of American citizens . Due precautions have been taken to enforce our neutrality laws and prevent our territory from becoming the base of military supplies for either of the warring factions . Under color of a blockade , of which no reasonable notice had been given , and which does not appear to have been efficiently maintained , a seizure of vessels under the American flag has been reported , and in consequence measures to prevent and redress any molestation of our innocent merchantmen have been adopted . Proclamation was duly made on the 9th day of November , 1887 , of the conventional extensions of the treaty of June 3 , 1875 , with Hawaii , under which relations of such special and beneficent intercourse have been created . In the vast field of Oriental commerce now unfolded from our Pacific borders no feature presents stronger recommendations for Congressional action than the establishment of communication by submarine telegraph with Honolulu . The geographical position of the Hawaiian group in relation to our Pacific States creates a natural interdependency and mutuality of interest which our present treaties were intended to foster , and which make close communication a logical and commercial necessity . The wisdom of concluding a treaty of commercial reciprocity with Mexico has been heretofore stated in my messages to Congress , and the lapse of time and growth of commerce with that close neighbor and sister Republic confirm the judgment so expressed . The precise relocation of our boundary line is needful , and adequate appropriation is now recommended . It is with sincere satisfaction that I am enabled to advert to the spirit of good neighborhood and friendly cooperation and conciliation that has marked the correspondence and action of the Mexican authorities in their share of the task of maintaining law and order about the line of our common boundary . The long pending boundary dispute between Costa Rica and Nicaragua was referred to my arbitration , and by an award made on the 22d of March last the question has been finally settled to the expressed satisfaction of both of the parties in interest . The Empire of Brazil , in abolishing the last vestige of slavery among Christian nations , called forth the earnest congratulations of this Government in expression of the cordial sympathies of our people . The claims of nearly all other countries against Chile growing out of her late war with Bolivia and Peru have been disposed of , either by arbitration or by a lump settlement . Similar claims of our citizens will continue to be urged upon the Chilean Government , and it is hoped will not be subject to further delays . A comprehensive treaty of amity and commerce with Peru was proclaimed on November 7 last , and it is expected that under its operation mutual prosperity and good understanding will be promoted . In pursuance of the policy of arbitration , a treaty to settle the claim of Santos , an American citizen , against Ecuador has been concluded under my authority , and will be duly submitted for the approval of the Senate . Like disposition of the claim of Carlos Butterfield against Denmark and of Van Bokkelen against Hayti will probably be made , and I trust the principle of such settlements may be extended in practice under the approval of the Senate . Through unforeseen causes , foreign to the will of both Governments , the ratification of the convention of December 5 , 1885 , with Venezuela , for the rehearing of claims of citizens of the United States under the treaty of 1866 , failed of exchange within the term provided , and a supplementary convention , further extending the time for exchange of ratifications and explanatory of an ambiguous provision of the prior convention , now awaits the advice and consent of the Senate . Although this matter , in the stage referred to , concerns only the concurrent treaty making power of one branch of Congress , I advert to it in view of the interest repeatedly and conspicuously shown by you in your legislative capacity in favor of a speedy and equitable adjustment of the questions growing out of the discredited judgments of the previous mixed commission of Caracas . With every desire to do justice to the representations of Venezuela in this regard , the time seems to have come to end this matter , and I trust the prompt confirmation by both parties of the supplementary action referred to will avert the need of legislative or other action to prevent the longer withholding of such rights of actual claimants as may be shown to exist . As authorized by the Congress , preliminary steps have been taken for the assemblage at this capital during the coming year of the representatives of South and Central American States , together with those of Mexico , Hayti , and San Domingo , to discuss sundry important monetary and commercial topics . Excepting in those cases where , from reasons of contiguity of territory and the existence of a common border line incapable of being guarded , reciprocal commercial treaties may be found expedient , it is believed that commercial policies inducing freer mutual exchange of products can be most advantageously arranged by independent but cooperative legislation . In the mode last mentioned the control of our taxation for revenue will be always retained in our own hands unrestricted by conventional agreements with other governments . In conformity also with Congressional authority , the maritime powers have been invited to confer in Washington in April next upon the practicability of devising uniform rules and measures for the greater security of life and property at sea . A disposition to accept on the part of a number of the powers has already been manifested , and if the cooperation of the nations chiefly interested shall be secured important results may be confidently anticipated . The act of June 26 , 1884 , and the acts amendatory thereof , in relation to tonnage duties , have given rise to extended correspondence with foreign nations with whom we have existing treaties of navigation and commerce , and have caused wide and regrettable divergence of opinion in relation to the imposition of the duties referred to . These questions are important , and I shall make them the subject of a special and more detailed communication at the present session . With the rapid increase of immigration to our shores and the facilities of modern travel , abuses of the generous privileges afforded by our naturalization laws call for their careful revision . The easy and unguarded manner in which certificates of American citizenship can now be obtained has induced a class , unfortunately large , to avail themselves of the opportunity to become absolved from allegiance to their native land , and yet by a foreign residence to escape any just duty and contribution of service to the country of their proposed adoption . Thus , while evading the duties of citizenship to the United States , they may make prompt claim for its national protection and demand its intervention in their behalf . International complications of a serious nature arise , and the correspondence of the State Department discloses the great number and complexity of the questions which have been raised . Our laws regulating the issue of passports should be carefully revised , and the institution of a central bureau of registration at the capital is again strongly recommended . By this means full particulars of each case of naturalization in the United States would be secured and properly indexed and recorded , and thus many cases of spurious citizenship would be detected and unjust responsibilities would be avoided . The reorganization of the consular service is a matter of serious importance to our national interests . The number of existing principal consular offices is believed to be greater than is at all necessary for the conduct of the public business . It need not be our policy to maintain more than a moderate number of principal offices , each supported by a salary sufficient to enable the incumbent to live in comfort , and so distributed as to secure the convenient supervision , through subordinate agencies , of affairs over a considerable district . I repeat the recommendations heretofore made by me that the appropriations for the maintenance of our diplomatic and consular service should be recast that the so called notarial or unofficial fees , which our representatives abroad are now permitted to treat as personal perquisites , should be forbidden that a system of consular inspection should be instituted , and that a limited number of secretaries of legation at large should be authorized . Preparations for the centennial celebration , on April 30 , 1889 , of the inauguration of George Washington as President of the United States , at the city of New York , have been made by a voluntary organization of the citizens of that locality , and believing that an opportunity should be afforded for the expression of the interest felt throughout the country in this event , I respectfully recommend fitting and cooperative action by Congress on behalf of the people of the United States . The report of the Secretary of the Treasury exhibits in detail the condition of our national finances and the operations of the several branches of the Government related to his Department . The total ordinary revenues of the Government for the fiscal year ended June 30 , 1888 , amounted to 379 , 266 , 074 . 76 , of which 219 , 091 , 173 . 63 was received from customs duties and 124 , 296 , 871 . 98 from internal revenue taxes . The total receipts from all sources exceeded those for the fiscal year ended June 30 , 1887 , by 7 , 862 , 797 . 10 . The ordinary expenditures of the Government for the fiscal year ending June 30 , 1888 , were 259 , 653 , 958 . 67 , leaving a surplus of 119 , 612 , 116 . 09 . The decrease in these expenditures as compared with the fiscal year ended June 30 , 1887 , was 8 , 278 , 221 . 30 , notwithstanding the payment of more than 5 , 000 , 000 for pensions in excess of what was paid for that purpose in the latter mentioned year . The revenues of the Government for the year ending June 30 , 1889 , ascertained for the quarter ended September 30 , 1888 , and estimated for the remainder of the time , amount to 377 , 000 , 000 , and the actual and estimated ordinary expenditures for the same year are 273 , 000 , 000 , leaving an estimated surplus of 104 , 000 , 000 . The estimated receipts for the year ending June 30 , 1890 , are 377 , 000 , 000 , and the estimated ordinary expenditures for the same time are 275 , 767 , 488 . 34 , showing a surplus of 101 , 232 , 511 . 66 . The foregoing statements of surplus do not take into account the sum necessary to be expended to meet the requirements of the sinking fund act , amounting to more than 47 , 000 , 000 annually . The cost of collecting the customs revenues for the last fiscal year was 2 . 44 per cent for the year 1885 it was 3 . 77 per cent . The excess of internal revenue taxes collected during the last fiscal year over those collected for the year ended June 30 , 1887 , was 5 , 489 , 174 . 26 , and the cost of collecting this revenue decreased from 3 . 4 per cent in 1887 to less than 3 . 2 per cent for the last year . The tax collected on oleomargarine was 723 , 948 . 04 for the year ending June 30 , 1887 , and 864 , 139 . 88 for the following year . The requirements of the sinking fund act have been met for the year ended June 30 , 1888 , and for the current year also , by the purchase of bonds . After complying with this law as positively required , and bonds sufficient for that purpose had been bought at a premium , it was not deemed prudent to further expend the surplus in such purchases until the authority to do so should be more explicit . A resolution , however , having been passed by both Houses of Congress removing all doubt as to Executive authority , daily purchases of bonds were commenced on the 23d day of April , 1888 , and have continued until the present time . By this plan bonds of the Government not yet due have been purchased up to and including the 30th day of November , 1888 , amounting to 94 , 700 , 400 , the premium paid thereon amounting to 17 , 508 , 613 . 08 . The premium added to the principal of these bonds represents an investment yielding about 2 per cent interest for the time they still had to run , and the saving to the Government represented by the difference between the amount of interest at 2 per cent upon the sum paid for principal and premium and what it would have paid for interest at the rate specified in the bonds if they had run to their maturity is about 27 , 165 , 000 . At first sight this would seem to be a profitable and sensible transaction on the part of the Government , but , as suggested by the Secretary of the Treasury , the surplus thus expended for the purchase of bonds was money drawn from the people in excess of any actual need of the Government and was so expended rather than allow it to remain idle in the Treasury . If this surplus , under the operation of just and equitable laws , had been left in the hands of the people , it would have been worth in their business at least 6 per cent per annum . Deducting from the amount of interest upon the principal and premium of these bonds for the time they had to run at the rate of 6 per cent the saving of 2 per cent made for the people by the purchase of such bonds , the loss will appear to be 55 , 760 , 000 . This calculation would seem to demonstrate that if excessive and unnecessary taxation is continued and the Government is forced to pursue this policy of purchasing its own bonds at the premiums which it will be necessary to pay , the loss to the people will be hundreds of millions of dollars . Since the purchase of bonds was undertaken as mentioned nearly all that have been offered were at last accepted . It has been made quite apparent that the Government was in danger of being subjected to combinations to raise their price , as appears by the instance cited by the Secretary of the offering of bonds of the par value of only 326 , 000 so often that the aggregate of the sums demanded for their purchase amounted to more than 19 , 700 , 000 . Notwithstanding the large sums paid out in the purchase of bonds , the surplus in the Treasury on the 30th day of November , 1888 , was 52 , 234 , 610 . 01 , after deducting about 20 , 000 , 000 just drawn out for the payment of pensions . At the close of the fiscal year ended June 30 , 1887 , there had been coined under the compulsory silver coinage act 266 , 988 , 280 in silver dollars , 55 , 504 , 310 of which were in the hands of the people . On the 30th day of June , 1888 , there had been coined 299 , 708 , 790 and of this 55 , 829 , 303 was in circulation in coin , and 200 , 387 , 376 in silver certificates , for the redemption of which silver dollars to that amount were held by the Government . On the 30th day of November , 1888 , 312 , 570 , 990 had been coined , 60 , 970 , 990 of the silver dollars were actually in circulation , and 237 , 418 , 346 in certificates . The Secretary recommends the suspension of the further coinage of silver , and in such recommendation I earnestly concur . For further valuable information and timely recommendations I ask the careful attention of the Congress to the Secretary s report . The Secretary of War reports that the Army at the date of the last consolidated returns consisted of 2 , 189 officers and 24 , 549 enlisted men . The actual expenditures of the War Department for the fiscal year ended June 30 , 1888 , amounted to 41 , 165 , 107 . 07 , of which sum 9 , 158 , 516 . 63 was expended for public works , including river and harbor improvements . The Board of Ordnance and Fortifications provided for under the act approved September 22 last was convened October 30 , 1888 , and plans and specifications for procuring forgings for 8 , 10 , and 12 inch guns , under provisions of section 4 , and also for procuring 12 inch breech loading mortars , cast iron , hooped with steel , under the provisions of section 5 of the said act , were submitted to the Secretary of War for reference to the board , by the Ordnance Department , on the same date . These plans and specifications having been promptly approved by the board and the Secretary of War , the necessary authority to publish advertisements inviting proposals in the newspapers throughout the country was granted by the Secretary on November 12 , and on November 13 the advertisements were sent out to the different newspapers designated . The bids for the steel forgings are to be opened on December 20 , 1888 , and for the mortars on December 15 , 1888 . A board of ordnance officers was convened at the Watervliet Arsenal on October 4 , 1888 , to prepare the necessary plans and specifications for the establishment of an army gun factory at that point . The preliminary report of this board , with estimates for shop buildings and officers quarters , was approved by the Board of Ordnance and Fortifications November 6 and 8 . The specifications and form of advertisement and instructions to bidders have been prepared , and advertisements inviting proposals for the excavations for the shop building and for erecting the two sets of officers quarters have been published . The detailed drawings and specifications for the gun factory building are well in hand , and will be finished within three or four months , when bids will be invited for the erection of the building . The list of machines , etc . , is made out , and it is expected that the plans for the large lathes , etc . , will be completed within about four months , and after approval by the Board of Ordnance and Fortifications bids for furnishing the same will be invited . The machines and other fixtures will be completed as soon as the shop is in readiness to receive them , probably about July , 1890 . Under the provisions of the Army bill for the procurement of pneumatic dynamite guns , the necessary specifications are now being prepared , and advertisements for proposals will issue early in December . The guns will probably be of 15 inches caliber and fire a projectile that will carry a charge each of about 500 pounds of explosive gelatine with full caliber projectiles . The guns will probably be delivered in from six to ten months from the date of the contract , so that all the guns of this class that can be procured under the provisions of the law will be purchased during the year 1889 . I earnestly request that the recommendations contained in the Secretary s report , all of which are , in my opinion , calculated to increase the usefulness and discipline of the Army , may receive the consideration of the Congress . Among these the proposal that there should be provided a plan for the examination of officers to test their fitness for promotion is of the utmost importance . This reform has been before recommended in the reports of the Secretary , and its expediency is so fully demonstrated by the argument he presents in its favor that its adoption should no longer be neglected . The death of General Sheridan in August last was a national affliction . The Army then lost the grandest of its chiefs . The country lost a brave and experienced soldier , a wise and discreet counselor , and a modest and sensible man . Those who in any manner came within the range of his personal association will never fail to pay deserved and willing homage to his greatness and the glory of his career , but they will cherish with more tender sensibility the loving memory of his simple , generous , and considerate nature . The Apache Indians , whose removal from their reservation in Arizona followed the capture o those of their number who engaged in a bloody and murderous raid during a part of the years 1885 and 1886 , are now held as prisoners of war at Mount Vernon Barracks , in the State of Alabama . They numbered on the 31st day of October , the date of the last report , 83 men , 170 women , 70 boys , and 59 girls in all , 382 persons . The commanding officer states that they are in good health and contented , and that they are kept employed as fully as is possible in the circumstances . The children , as they arrive at a suitable age , are sent to the Indian schools at Carlisle and Hampton . Last summer some charitable and kind people asked permission to send two teachers to these Indians for the purpose of instructing the adults as well as such children as should be found there . Such permission was readily granted , accommodations were provided for the teachers , and some portions of the buildings at the barracks were made available for school purposes . The good work contemplated has been commenced , and the teachers engaged are paid by the ladies with whom the plan originated . I am not at all in sympathy with those benevolent but injudicious people who are constantly insisting that these Indians should be returned to their reservation . Their removal was an absolute necessity if the lives and property of citizens upon the frontier are to be at all regarded by the Government . Their continued restraint at a distance from the scene of their repeated and cruel murders and outrages is still necessary . It is a mistaken philanthropy , every way injurious , which prompts the desire to see these savages returned to their old haunts . They are in their present location as the result of the best judgment of those having official responsibility in the matter , and who are by no means lacking in kind consideration for the Indians . A number of these prisoners have forfeited their lives to outraged law and humanity . Experience has proved that they are dangerous and can not be trusted . This is true not only of those who on the warpath have heretofore actually been guilty of atrocious murder , but of their kindred and friends , who , while they remained upon their reservation , furnished aid and comfort to those absent with bloody intent . These prisoners should be treated kindly and kept in restraint far from the locality of their former reservation they should be subjected to efforts calculated to lead to their improvement and the softening of their savage and cruel instincts , but their return to their old home should be persistently resisted . The Secretary in his report gives a graphic history of these Indians , and recites with painful vividness their bloody deeds and the unhappy failure of the Government to manage them by peaceful means . It will be amazing if a perusal of this history will allow the survival of a desire for the return of these prisoners to their reservation upon sentimental or any other grounds . The report of the Secretary of the Navy demonstrates very intelligent management in that important Department , and discloses the most satisfactory progress in the work of reconstructing the Navy made during the past year . Of the ships in course of construction five , viz , the Charleston , Baltimore , Yorktown , Vesuvius , and the Petrel , have in that time been launched and are rapidly approaching completion and in addition to the above , the Philadelphia , the San Francisco , the Newark , the Bennington , the Concord , and the Herreshoff torpedo boat are all under contract for delivery to the Department during the next year . The progress already made and being made gives good ground for the expectation that these eleven vessels will be incorporated as part of the American Navy within the next twelve months . The report shows that notwithstanding the large expenditures for new construction and the additional labor they involve the total ordinary or current expenditures of the Department for the three years ending June 30 , 1888 , are less by more than 20 per cent than such expenditures for the three years ending June 30 , 1884 . The various steps which have been taken to improve the business methods of the Department are reviewed by the Secretary . The purchasing of supplies has been consolidated and placed under a responsible bureau head . This has resulted in the curtailment of open purchases , which in the years 1884 and 1885 amounted to over 50 per cent of all the purchases of the Department , to less than 11 per cent so that at the present time about 90 per cent of the total departmental purchases are made by contract and after competition . As the expenditures on this account exceed an average of 2 , 000 , 000 annually , it is evident that an important improvement in the system has been inaugurated and substantial economies introduced . The report of the Postmaster General shows a marked increase of business in every branch of the postal service . The number of post offices on July 1 , 1888 , was 57 , 376 , an increase of 6 , 124 in three years and of 2 , 219 for tthe last fiscal year . The latter mentioned increase is classified as follows New England StatesMiddle States181Southern States and Indian Territory 41 1 , 406The States and Territories of the Pacific Coast190The ten States and Territories of the West and Northwest435District of Columbia2Total 2 , 219 Free delivery offices have increased from 189 in the fiscal year ended June 30 , 1887 , to 358 in the year ended June 30 , 1888 . In the Railway Mail Service there has been an increase in one year of 168 routes , and in the number of miles traveled per annum an increase of 15 , 795 , 917 . 48 . The estimated increase of railroad service for the year was 6 , 000 miles , but the amount of new railroad service actually put on was 12 , 764 . 50 miles . The volume of business in the Money Order Division , including transactions in postal notes , reached the sum of upward of 143 , 000 , 000 for the year . During the past year parcel post conventions have been concluded with Barbados , the Bahamas , British Honduras , and Mexico , and are now under negotiation with all the Central and South American States . The increase of correspondence with foreign countries during the past three years is gratifying , and is especially notable and exceptional with the Central and South American States and with Mexico . As the greater part of mail matter exchanged with these countries is commercial in its character , this increase is evidence of the improved business relations with them . The practical operation of the parcel post conventions , so far as negotiated , has served to fulfill the most favorable predictions as to their benefits . In January last a general postal convention was negotiated with the Dominion of Canada , which went into operation on March 1 , and which practically makes one postal territory of the United States and Canada . Under it merchandise parcels may now be transmitted through the mails at fourth class rates of postage . It is not possible here to touch even the leading heads of the great postal establishment to illustrate the enormous and rapid growth of its business and the needs for legislative readjustment of much of its machinery that it has outgrown . For these and valuable recommendations of the Postmaster General attention is earnestly invited to his report . A Department whose revenues have increased from 19 , 772 , 000 in 1870 to 52 , 700 , 000 in 1888 , despite reductions of postage which have enormously reduced rates of revenue while greatly increasing its business , demands the careful consideration of the Congress as to all matters suggested by those familiar with its operations , and which are calculated to increase its efficiency and usefulness . A bill proposed by the Postmaster General was introduced at the last session of the Congress by which a uniform standard in the amount of gross receipts would fix the right of a community to a public building to be erected by the Government for post office purposes . It was demonstrated that , aside from the public convenience and the promotion of harmony among citizens , invariably disturbed by change of leasings and of site , it was a measure of the highest economy and of sound business judgment . It was found that the Government was paying in rents at the rate of from 7 to 10 per cent per annum on what the cost of such public buildings would be . A very great advantage resulting from such a law would be the prevention of a large number of bills constantly introduced for the erection of public buildings at places , and involving expenditures not justified by public necessity . I trust that this measure will become a law at the present session of Congress . Of the total number of postmasters 54 , 874 are of the fourth class . These , of course , receive no allowances whatever for expenses in the service , and their compensation is fixed by percentages on receipts at their respective offices . This rate of compensation may have been , and probably was , at some time just , but the standard has remained unchanged through the several reductions in the rates of postage . Such reductions have necessarily cut down the compensation of these officials , while it undoubtedly increased the business performed by them . Simple justice requires attention to this subject , to the end that fourth class postmasters may receive at least an equivalent to that which the law itself , fixing the rate , intended for them . Another class of postal employees whose condition seems to demand legislation is that of clerks in post offices , and I call especial attention to the repeated recommendations of the Postmaster General for their classification . Proper legislation of this character for the relief of carriers in the free delivery service has been frequent . Provision is made for their promotion for substitutes for them on vacation for substitutes for holidays , and limiting their hours of labor . Seven million dollars has been appropriated for the current year to provide for them , though the total number of offices where they are employed is but 358 for the past fiscal year , with an estimated increase for the current year of but 40 , while the total appropriation for all clerks in offices throughout the United States is 5 , 950 , 000 . The legislation affecting the relations of the Government with railroads is in need of revision . While for the most part the railroad companies throughout the country have cordially cooperated with the Post Office Department in rendering excellent service , yet under the law as it stands , while the compensation to them for carrying the mail is limited and regulated , and although railroads are made post roads by law , there is no authority reposed anywhere to compel the owner of a railroad to take and carry the United States mails . The only alternative provided by act of Congress in case of refusal is for the Postmaster General to send mail forward by pony express . This is but an illustration of ill fitting legislation , reasonable and proper at the time of its enactment , but long since outgrown and requiring readjustment . It is gratifying to note from the carefully prepared statistics accompanying the Postmaster General s report that notwithstanding the great expansion of the service the rate of expenditure has been lessened and efficiency has been improved in every branch that fraud and crime have decreased that losses from the mails have been reduced , and that the number of complaints of the service made to postmasters and to the Department are far less than ever before . The transactions of the Department of Justice for the fiscal year ended June 30 , 1888 , are contained in the report of the Attorney General , as well as a number of valuable recommendations , the most part of which are repetitions of those previously made , and ought to receive consideration . It is stated in this report that though judgments in civil suits amounting to 552 , 021 . 08 were recovered in favor of the Government during the year , only the sum of 132 , 934 was collected thereon and that though fines , penalties , and forfeitures were imposed amounting to 541 , 808 . 43 , only 109 , 648 . 42 of that sum was paid on account thereof . These facts may furnish an illustration of the sentiment which extensively prevails that a debt due the Government should cause no inconvenience to the citizen . It also appears from this report that though prior to March , 1885 , there had been but 6 convictions in the Territories of Utah and Idaho under the laws of 1862 and 1882 , punishing polygamy and unlawful cohabitation as crimes , there have been since that date nearly 600 convictions under these laws and the statutes of 1887 and the opinion is expressed that under such a firm and vigilant execution of these laws and the advance of ideas opposed to the forbidden practices polygamy within the United States is virtually at an end . Suits instituted by the Government under the provisions of the act of March 3 , 1887 , for the termination of the corporations known as the Perpetual Emigrating Fund Company and the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter day Saints have resulted in a decree favorable to the Government , declaring the charters of these corporations forfeited and escheating their property . Such property , amounting in value to more than 800 , 000 , is in the hands of a receiver pending further proceedings , an appeal having been taken to the Supreme Court of the United States . In the report of the Secretary of the Interior , which will be laid before you , the condition of the various branches of our domestic affairs connected with that Department and its operations during the past year are fully exhibited . But a brief reference to some of the subjects discussed in this able and interesting report can here be made but I commend the entire report to the attention of the Congress , and trust that the sensible and valuable recommendations it contains will secure careful consideration . I can not too strenuously insist upon the importance of proper measures to insure a right disposition of our public lands , not only as a matter of present justice , but in forecast of the consequences to future generations . The broad , rich acres of our agricultural plains have been long preserved by nature to become her untrammeled gift to a people civilized and free , upon which should rest in well distributed ownership the numerous homes of enlightened , equal , and fraternal citizens . They came to national possession with the warning example in our eyes of the entail of iniquities in landed proprietorship which other countries have permitted and still suffer . We have no excuse for the violation of principles cogently taught by reason and example , nor for the allowance of pretexts which have sometimes exposed our lands to colossal greed . Laws which open a door to fraudulent acquisition , or administration which permits favor to rapacious seizure by a favored few of expanded areas that many should enjoy , are accessory to offenses against our national welfare and humanity not to be too severely condemned or punished . It is gratifying to know that something has been done at last to redress the injuries to our people and check the perilous tendency of the reckless waste of the national domain . That over 80 , 000 , 000 acres have been arrested from illegal usurpation , improvident grants , and fraudulent entries and claims , to be taken for the homesteads of honest industry although less than the greater areas thus unjustly lost must afford a profound gratification to right feeling citizens , as it is a recompense for the labors and struggles of the recovery . Our dear experience ought sufficiently to urge the speedy enactment of measures of legislation which will confine the future disposition of our remaining agricultural lands to the uses of actual husbandry and genuine homes . Nor should our vast tracts of so called desert lands be yielded up to the monopoly of corporations or grasping individuals , as appears to be much the tendency under the existing statute . These lands require but the supply of water to become fertile and productive . It is a problem of great moment how most wisely for the public good that factor shall be furnished . I can not but think it perilous to suffer either these lands or the sources of their irrigation to fall into the hands of monopolies , which by such means may exercise lordship over the areas dependent on their treatment for productiveness . Already steps have been taken to secure accurate and scientific information of the conditions , which is the prime basis of intelligent action . Until this shall be gained the course of wisdom appears clearly to lie in a suspension of further disposal , which only promises to create rights antagonistic to the common interest . No harm can follow this cautionary conduct . The land will remain , and the public good presents no demand for hasty dispossession of national ownership and control . I commend also the recommendations that appropriate measures be taken to complete the adjustment of the various grants made to the States for internal improvements and of swamp and overflowed lands , as well as to adjudicate and finally determine the validity and extent of the numerous private land claims . All these are elements of great injustice and peril to the settlers upon the localities affected and now that their existence can not be avoided , no duty is more pressing than to fix as soon as possible their bounds and terminate the threats of trouble which arise from uncertainty . The condition of our Indian population continues to improve and the proofs multiply that the transforming change , so much to be desired , which shall substitute for barbarism enlightenment and civilizing education , is in favorable progress . Our relations with these people during the year have been disturbed by no serious disorders , but rather marked by a better realization of their true interests and increasing confidence and good will . These conditions testify to the value of the higher tone of consideration and humanity which has governed the later methods of dealing with them , and commend its continued observance . Allotments in severalty have been made on some reservations until all those entitled to land thereon have had their shares assigned , and the work is still continued . In directing the execution of this duty I have not aimed so much at rapid dispatch as to secure just and fair arrangements which shall best conduce to the objects of the law by producing satisfaction with the results of the allotments made . No measure of general effect has ever been entered on from which more may be fairly hoped if it shall be discreetly administered . It proffers opportunity and inducement to that independence of spirit and life which the Indian peculiarly needs , while at the same time the inalienability of title affords security against the risks his inexperience of affairs or weakness of character may expose him to in dealing with others . Whenever begun upon any reservation it should be made complete , so that all are brought to the same condition , and as soon as possible community in lands should cease by opening such as remain unallotted to settlement . Contact with the ways of industrious and successful farmers will perhaps add a healthy emulation which will both instruct and stimulate . But no agency for the amelioration of this people appears to me so promising as the extension , urged by the Secretary , of such complete facilities of education as shall at the earliest possible day embrace all teachable Indian youth , of both sexes , and retain them with a kindly and beneficent hold until their characters are formed and their faculties and dispositions trained to the sure pursuit of some form of useful industry . Capacity of the Indian no longer needs demonstration . It is established . It remains to make the most of it , and when that shall be done the curse will be lifted , the Indian race saved , and the sin of their oppression redeemed . The time of its accomplishment depends upon the spirit and justice with which it shall be prosecuted . It can not be too soon for the Indian nor for the interests and good name of the nation . The average attendance of Indian pupils on the schools increased by over 900 during the year , and the total enrollment reached 15 , 212 . The cost of maintenance was not materially raised . The number of teachable Indian youth is now estimated at 40 , 000 , or nearly three times the enrollment of the schools . It is believed the obstacles in the way of instructing are all surmountable , and that the necessary expenditure would be a measure of economy . The Sioux tribes on the great reservation of Dakota refused to assent to the act passed by the Congress at its last session for opening a portion of their lands to settlement , notwithstanding modification of the terms was suggested which met most of their objections . Their demand is for immediate payment of the full price of 1 . 25 per acre for the entire body of land the occupancy of which they are asked to relinquish . The manner of submission insured their fair understanding of the law , and their action was undoubtedly as thoroughly intelligent as their capacity admitted . It is at least gratifying that no reproach of overreaching can in any manner lie against the Government , however advisable the favorable completion of the negotiation may have been esteemed . I concur in the suggestions of the Secretary regarding the Turtle Mountain Indians , the two reservations in California , and the Crees . They should , in my opinion , receive immediate attention . The number of pensioners added to the rolls during the fiscal year ended June 30 , 1888 , is 60 , 252 , and increase of pensions was granted in 45 , 716 cases . The names of 15 , 730 pensioners were dropped from the rolls during the year from various causes , and at the close of the year the number of persons of all classes receiving pensions was 452 , 557 . Of these there were 806 survivors of the War of 1812 , 10 , 787 widows of those who served in that war , 16 , 060 soldiers of the Mexican War , and 5 , 104 widows of said soldiers . One hundred and two different rates of pensions are paid to these beneficiaries , ranging from 2 to 416 . 66 per month . The amount paid for pensions during the fiscal year was 78 , 775 , 861 . 92 , being an increase over the preceding year of 5 , 308 , 280 . 22 . The expenses attending the maintenance and operation of the Pension Bureau during that period was 3 , 262 , 524 . 67 , making the entire expenditures of the Bureau 82 , 038 , 386 . 57 , being 21 1 2 per cent of the gross income and nearly 31 per cent of the total expenditures of the Government during the year . I am thoroughly convinced that our general pension laws should be revised and adjusted to meet as far as possible , in the light of our experience , all meritorious cases . The fact that 102 different rates of pensions are paid can not , in my opinion , be made consistent with justice to the pensioners or to the Government and the numerous private pension bills that are passed , predicated upon the imperfection of general laws , while they increase in many cases existing inequality and injustice , lend additional force to the recommendation for a revision of the general laws on this subject . The laxity of ideas prevailing among a large number of our people regarding pensions is becoming every day more marked . The principles upon which they should be granted are in danger of being altogether ignored , and already pensions are often claimed because the applicants are as much entitled as other successful applicants , rather than upon any disability reasonably attributable to military service . If the establishment of vicious precedents be continued , if the granting of pensions be not divorced from partisan and other unworthy and irrelevant considerations , and if the honorable name of veteran unfairly becomes by these means but another term for one who constantly clamors for the aid of the Government , there is danger that injury will be done to the fame and patriotism of many whom our citizens all delight to honor , and that a prejudice will be aroused unjust to meritorious applicants for pensions . The Department of Agriculture has continued , with a good measure of success , its efforts to develop the processes , enlarge the results , and augment the profits of American husbandry . It has collected and distributed practical information , introduced and tested new plants , checked the spread of contagious diseases of farm animals , resisted the advance of noxious insects and destructive fungous growths , and sought to secure to agricultural labor the highest reward of effort and the fullest immunity from loss . Its records of the year show that the season of 1888 has been one of medium production . A generous supply of the demands of consumption has been assured , and a surplus for exportation , moderate in certain products and bountiful in others , will prove a benefaction alike to buyer and grower . Four years ago it was found that the great cattle industry of the country was endangered , and those engaged in it were alarmed at the rapid extension of the European lung plague of pleuro pneumonia . Serious outbreaks existed in Illinois , Missouri , and Kentucky , and in Tennessee animals affected were held in quarantine . Five counties in New York and from one to four counties in each of the States of New Jersey , Pennsylvania , Delaware , and Maryland were almost equally affected . With this great danger upon us and with the contagion already in the channels of commerce , with the enormous direct and indirect losses already being caused by it , and when only prompt and energetic action could be successful , there were in none of these States any laws authorizing this Department to eradicate the malady or giving the State officials power to cooperate with it for this purpose . The Department even lacked both the requisite appropriation and authority . By securing State cooperation in connection with authority from Congress the work of eradication has been pressed successfully , and this dreaded disease has been extirpated from the Western States and also from the Eastern States , with the exception of a few restricted areas , which are still under supervision . The danger has thus been removed , and trade and commerce have been freed from the vexatious State restrictions which were deemed necessary for a time . During the past four years the process of diffusion , as applied to the manufacture of sugar from sorghum and sugar cane , has been introduced into this country and fully perfected by the experiments carried on by the Department of Agriculture . This process is now universally considered to be the most economical one , and it is through it that the sorghum sugar industry has been established upon a firm basis and the road to its future success opened . The adoption of this diffusion process is also extending in Louisiana and other sugar producing parts of the country , and will doubtless soon be the only method employed for the extraction of sugar from the cane . An exhaustive study has also within the same period been undertaken of the subject of food adulteration and the best analytical methods for detecting it . A part of the results of this work has already been published by the Department , which , with the matter in course of preparation , will make the most complete treatise on that subject that has ever been published in any country . The Department seeks a progressive development . It would combine the discoveries of science with the economics and amelioration of rural practice . A supervision of the endowed experimental station system recently provided for is a proper function of the Department , and is now in operation . This supervision is very important , and should be wisely and vigilantly directed , to the end that the pecuniary aid of the Government in favor of intelligent agriculture should be so applied as to result in the general good and to the benefit of all our people , thus justifying the appropriations made from the public Treasury . The adjustment of the relations between the Government and the railroad companies which have received land grants and the guaranty of the public credit in aid of the construction of their roads should receive early attention . The report of a majority of the commissioners appointed to examine the affairs and indebtedness of these roads , in which they favor an extension of the time for the payment of such indebtedness in at least one case where the corporation appears to be able to comply with well guarded and exact terms of such extension , and the reenforcement of their opinion by gentlemen of undoubted business judgment and experience , appointed to protect the interests of the Government as directors of said corporation , may well lead to the belief that such an extension would be to the advantage of the Government . The subject should be treated as a business proposition with a view to a final realization of its indebtedness by the Government , rather than as a question to be decided upon prejudice or by way of punishment for previous wrongdoing . The report of the Commissioners of the District of Columbia , with its accompanying documents , gives in detail the operations of the several departments of the District government , and furnishes evidence that the financial affairs of the District are at present in such satisfactory condition as to justify the Commissioners in submitting to the Congress estimates for desirable and needed improvements . The Commissioners recommend certain legislation which in their opinion is necessary to advance the interests of the District . I invite your special attention to their request for such legislation as will enable the Commissioners without delay to collect , digest , and properly arrange the laws by which the District is governed , and which are now embraced in several collections , making them available only with great difficulty and labor . The suggestions they make touching desirable amendments to the laws relating to licenses granted for carrying on the retail traffic in spirituous liquors , to the observance of Sunday , to the proper assessment and collection of taxes , to the speedy punishment of minor offenders , and to the management and control of the reformatory and charitable institutions supported by Congressional appropriations are commended to careful consideration . I again call attention to the present inconvenience and the danger to life and property attending the operation of steam railroads through and across the public streets and roads of the District . The propriety of such legislation as will properly guard the use of these railroads and better secure the convenience and safety of citizens is manifest . The consciousness that I have presented but an imperfect statement of the condition of our country and its wants occasions no fear that anything omitted is not known and appreciated by the Congress , upon whom rests the responsibility of intelligent legislation in behalf of a great nation and a confiding people . As public servants we shall do our duty well if we constantly guard the rectitude of our intentions , maintain unsullied our love of country , and with unselfish purpose strive for the public good .<speech_sep>To the Senate and House of Representatives In my recent annual message to the Congress I briefly referred to our relations with Hawaii and expressed the intention of transmitting further information on the subject when additional advices permitted . Though I am not able now to report a definite change in the actual situation , I am convinced that the difficulties lately created both here and in Hawaii , and now standing in the way of a solution through Executive action of the problem presented , render it proper and expedient that the matter should be referred to the broader authority and discretion of Congress , with a full explanation of the endeavor thus far made to deal with the emergency and a statement of the considerations which have governed my action . I suppose that right and justice should determine the path to be followed in treating this subject . If national honesty is to be disregarded and a desire for territorial extension or dissatisfaction with a form of government not our own ought to regulate our conduct , I have entirely misapprehended the mission and character of our Government and the behavior which the conscience of our people demands of their public servants . When the present Administration entered upon its duties , the Senate had under consideration a treaty providing for the annexation of the Hawaiian Islands to the territory of the United States . Surely under our Constitution and laws the enlargement of our limits is a manifestation of the highest attribute of sovereignty , and if entered upon as an Executive act all things relating to the transaction should be clear and free from suspicion . Additional importance attached to this particular treaty of annexation because it contemplated a departure from unbroken American tradition in providing for the addition to our territory of islands of the sea more than 2 , 000 miles removed from our nearest coast . These considerations might not of themselves call for interference with the completion of a treaty entered upon by a previous Administration , but it appeared from the documents accompanying the treaty when submitted to the Senate that the ownership of Hawaii was tendered to us by a Provisional Government set up to succeed the constitutional ruler of the islands , who had been dethroned , and it did not appear that such Provisional Government had the sanction of either popular revolution or suffrage . Two other remarkable features of the transaction naturally attracted attention . One was the extraordinary haste , not to say precipitancy , characterizing all the transactions connected with the treaty . It appeared that a so called committee of safety , ostensibly the source of the revolt against the constitutional Government of Hawaii , was organized on Saturday , the 14th day of January that on Monday , the 16th , the United States forces were landed at Honolulu from a naval vessel lying in its harbor that on the 17th the scheme of a Provisional Government was perfected , and a proclamation naming its officers was on the same day prepared and read at the Government building that immediately thereupon the United States minister recognized the Provisional Government thus created that two days afterwards , on the 19th day of January , commissioners representing such Government sailed for this country in a steamer especially chartered for the occasion , arriving in San Francisco on the 28th day of January and in Washington on the 3d day of February that on the next day they had their first interview with the Secretary of State , and another on the 11th , when the treaty of annexation was practically agreed upon , and that on the 14th it was formally concluded and on the 15th transmitted to the Senate . Thus between the initiation of the scheme for a Provisional Government in Hawaii , on the 14th day of January , and the submission to the Senate of the treaty of annexation concluded with such Government the entire interval was thirty two days , fifteen of which were spent by the Hawaiian commissioners in their journey to Washington . In the next place , upon the face of the papers submitted with the treaty it clearly appeared that there was open and undetermined an issue of fact of the most vital importance . The message of the President accompanying the treaty declared that the overthrow of the monarchy was not in any way promoted by this Government , and in a letter to the President from the Secretary of State , also submitted to the Senate with the treaty , the following passage occurs At the time the Provisional Government took possession of the Government buildings no troops or officers of the United States were present or took any part whatever in the proceedings . No public recognition was accorded to the Provisional Government by the United States minister until after the Queen s abdication and when they were in effective possession of the Government buildings , the archives , the treasury , the barracks , the police station , and all the potential machinery of the Government . But a protest also accompanied said treaty , signed by the Queen and her ministers at the time she made way for the Provisional Government , which explicitly stated that she yielded to the superior force of the United States , whose minister had caused United States troops to be landed at Honolulu and declared that he would support such Provisional Government . The truth or falsity of this protest was surely of the first importance . If true , nothing but the concealment of its truth could induce our Government to negotiate with the semblance of a government thus created , nor could a treaty resulting from the acts stated in the protest have been knowingly deemed worthy of consideration by the Senate . Yet the truth or falsity of the protest had not been investigated . I conceived it to be my duty , therefore , to withdraw the treaty from the Senate for examination , and meanwhile to cause an accurate , full , and impartial investigation to be made of the facts attending the subversion of the constitutional Government of Hawaii and the installment in its place of the Provisional Government . I selected for the work of investigation the James Blount , of Georgia , whose service of eighteen years as a member of the House of Representatives and whose experience as chairman of the Committee of Foreign Affairs in that body , and his consequent familiarity with international topics , joined with his high character and honorable reputation , seemed to render him peculiarly fitted for the duties intrusted to him . His report detailing his action under the instructions given to him and the conclusions derived from his investigation accompany this message . These conclusions do not rest for their acceptance entirely upon Blount s honesty and ability as a man , nor upon his acumen and impartiality as an investigator . They are accompanied by the evidence upon which they are based , which evidence is also herewith transmitted , and from which it seems to me no other deductions could possibly be reached than those arrived at by the commissioner . The report , with its accompanying proofs and such other evidence as is now before the Congress or is herewith submitted , justifies , in my opinion , the statement that when the President was led to submit the treaty to the Senate with the declaration that the overthrow of the monarchy was not in any way promoted by this Government , and when the Senate was induced to receive and discuss it on that basis , both President and Senate were misled . The attempt will not be made in this communication to touch upon all the facts which throw light upon the progress and consummation of this scheme of annexation . A very brief and imperfect reference to the facts and evidence at hand will exhibit its character and the incidents in which it had its birth . It is unnecessary to set forth the reasons which in January , 1893 , led a considerable proportion of American and other foreign merchants and traders residing at Honolulu to favor the annexation of Hawaii to the United States . It is sufficient to note the fact and to observe that the project was one which was zealously promoted by the minister representing the United States in that country . He evidently had an ardent desire that it should become a fact accomplished by his agency and during his ministry , and was not inconveniently scrupulous as to the means employed to that end . On the 19th day of November , 1892 , nearly two months before the first overt act tending toward the subversion of the Hawaiian Government and the attempted transfer of Hawaiian territory to the United States , he addressed a long letter to the Secretary of State , in which the case for annexation was elaborately argued on moral , political , and economical grounds . He refers to the loss to the Hawaiian sugar interests from the operation of the McKinley bill and the tendency to still further depreciation of sugar property unless some positive measure of relief is granted . He strongly inveighs against the existing Hawaiian Government and emphatically declares for annexation . He says In truth , the monarchy here is an absurd anachronism . It has nothing on which it logically or legitimately stands . The feudal basis on which it once stood no longer existing , the monarchy now is only an impediment to good government an obstruction to the prosperity and progress of the islands . He further says As a Crown colony of Great Britain or a Territory of the United States the government modifications could be made readily and good administration of the law secured . Destiny and the vast future interests of the United States in the Pacific clearly indicate who at no distant day must be responsible for the government of these islands . Under a Territorial government they could be as easily governed as any of the existing territories of the United States . Hawaii has reached the parting of the ways . She must now take the road which leads to Asia , or the other , which outlets her in America , gives her an American civilization , and binds her to the care of American destiny . He also declares One of two courses seems to me absolutely necessary to be followed either bold and vigorous measures for annexation or a customs union , an ocean cable from the Californian coast to Honolulu , Pearl Harbor perpetually ceded to the United States , with an implied but not expressly stipulated American protectorate over the islands . I believe the former to be the better , that which will prove much the more advantageous to the islands and the cheapest and least embarrassing in the end to the United States . If it was wise for the United States , through Secretary Marcy , thirty eight years ago , to offer to expend 100 , 000 to secure a treaty of annexation , it certainly can not be chimerical or unwise to expend 100 , 000 to secure annexation in the near future . To day the United States has five times the wealth she possessed in 1854 , and the reasons now existing for annexation are much stronger than they were then . I can not refrain from expressing the opinion with emphasis that the golden hour is near at hand . These declarations certainly show a disposition and condition of mind which may be usefully recalled when interpreting the significance of the minister s conceded acts or when considering the probabilities of such conduct on his part as may not be admitted . In this view it seems proper to also quote from a letter written by the minister to the Secretary of State on the 8th day of March , 1892 , nearly a year prior to the first step taken toward annexation . After stating the possibility that the existing Government of Hawaii might be overturned by an orderly and peaceful revolution , Minister Stevens writes as follows Ordinarily , in like circumstances , the rule seems to be to limit the landing and movement of United States forces in foreign waters and dominion exclusively to the protection of the United States legation and of the lives and property of American citizens but as the relations of the United States to Hawaii are exceptional , and in former years the United States officials here took somewhat exceptional action in circumstances of disorder , I desire to know how far the present minister and naval commander may deviate from established international rules and precedents in the contingencies indicated in the first part of this dispatch . To a minister of this temper , full of zeal for annexation , there seemed to arise in January , 1893 , the precise opportunity for which he was watchfully waiting an opportunity which by timely deviation from established international rules and precedents might be improved to successfully accomplish the great object in view and we are quite prepared for the exultant enthusiasm with which , in a letter to the State Department dated February 1 , 1893 , he declares The Hawaiian pear is now fully ripe , and this is the golden hour for the United States to pluck it . As a further illustration of the activity of this diplomatic representative , attention is called to the fact that on the day the above letter was written , apparently unable longer to restrain his ardor , he issued a proclamation whereby , in the name of the United States , he assumed the protection of the Hawaiian Islands and declared that said action was taken pending and subject to negotiations at Washington . Of course this assumption of a protectorate was promptly disavowed by our Government , but the American flag remained over the Government building at Honolulu and the forces remained on guard until April , and after Blount s arrival on the scene , when both were removed . A brief statement of the occurrences that led to the subversion of the constitutional Government of Hawaii in the interests of annexation to the United States will exhibit the true complexion of that transaction . On Saturday , January 14 , 1893 , the Queen of Hawaii , who had been contemplating the proclamation of a new constitution , had , in deference to the wishes and remonstrances of her cabinet , renounced the project for the present at least . Taking this relinquished purpose as a basis of action , citizens of Honolulu numbering from fifty to one hundred , mostly resident aliens , met in a private office and selected a so called committee of safety , composed of thirteen persons , seven of whom were foreign subjects , and consisted of five Americans , one Englishman , and one German . This committee , though its designs were not revealed , had in view nothing less than annexation to the United States , and between Saturday , the 14th , and the following Monday , the 16th of January though exactly what action was taken may not be clearly disclosed they were certainly in communication with the United States minister . On Monday morning the Queen and her cabinet made public proclamation , with a notice which was specially served upon the representatives of all foreign governments , that any changes in the constitution would be sought only in the methods provided by that instrument . Nevertheless , at the call and under the auspices of the committee of safety , a mass meeting of citizens was held on that day to protest against the Queen s alleged illegal and unlawful proceedings and purposes . Even at this meeting the committee of safety continued to disguise their real purpose and contented themselves with procuring the passage of a resolution denouncing the Queen and empowering the committee to devise ways and means to secure the permanent maintenance of law and order and the protection of life , liberty , and property in Hawaii . This meeting adjourned between 3 and 4 of the clock in the afternoon . On the same day , and immediately after such adjournment , the committee , unwilling to take further steps without the cooperation of the United States minister , addressed him a note representing that the public safety was menaced and that lives and property were in danger , and concluded as follows We are unable to protect ourselves without aid , and therefore pray for the protection of the United States forces . Whatever may be thought of the other contents of this note , the absolute truth of this latter statement is incontestable . When the note was written and delivered the committee , so far as it appears , had neither a man nor a gun at their command , and after its delivery they became so panic stricken at their position that they sent some of their number to interview the minister and request him not to land the United States forces till the next morning . But he replied that the troops had been ordered and whether the committee were ready or not the landing should take place . And so it happened that on the 16th day of January , 1893 , between 4 and 5 of the clock in the afternoon , a detachment of marines from the United States steamer Boston , with two pieces of artillery , landed at Honolulu . The men , upward of 160 in all , were supplied with double cartridge belts filled with ammunition and with haversacks and canteens , and were accompanied by a hospital corps with stretchers and medical supplies . This military demonstration upon the soil of Honolulu was of itself an act of war , unless made either with the consent of the Government of Hawaii or for the bona fide purpose of protecting the imperiled lives and property of citizens of the United States . But there is no pretense of any such consent on the part of the Government of the Queen , which at that time was undisputed and was both the de facto and the de jure Government . In point of fact the existing Government , instead of requesting the presence of an armed force , protested against it . There is as little basis for the pretense that such forces were landed for the security of American life and property . If so , they would have been stationed in the vicinity of such property and so as to protect it , instead of at a distance and so as to command the Hawaiian Government building and palace . Admiral Skerrett , the officer in command of our naval force on the Pacific station , has frankly stated that in his opinion the location of the troops was inadvisable if they were landed for the protection of American citizens , whose residences and places of business , as well as the legation and consulate , were in a distant part of the city but the location selected was a wise one if the forces were landed for the purpose of supporting the Provisional Government . If any peril to life and property calling for any such martial array had existed , Great Britain and other foreign powers interested would not have been behind the United States in activity to protect their citizens . But they made no sign in that direction . When these armed men were landed the city of Honolulu was in its customary orderly and peaceful condition . There was no symptom of riot or disturbance in any quarter . Men , women , and children were about the streets as usual , and nothing varied the ordinary routine or disturbed the ordinary tranquillity except the landing of the Boston s marines and their march through the town to the quarters assigned them . Indeed , the fact that after having called for the landing of the United States forces on the plea of danger to life and property the committee of safety themselves requested the minister to postpone action exposed the untruthfulness of their representations of present peril to life and property . The peril they saw was an anticipation growing out of guilty intentions on their part and something which , though not then existing , they knew would certainly follow their attempt to overthrow the Government of the Queen without the aid of the United States forces . Thus it appears that Hawaii was taken possession of by the United States forces without the consent or wish of the Government of the islands , or of anybody else so far as shown except the United States minister . Therefore the military occupation of Honolulu by the United States on the day mentioned was wholly without justification , either as an occupation by consent or as an occupation necessitated by dangers threatening American life and property . It must be accounted for in some other way and on some other ground , and its real motive and purpose are neither obscure nor far to seek . The United States forces being now on the scene and favorably stationed , the committee proceeded to carry out their original scheme . They met the next morning , Tuesday , the 17th , perfected the plan of temporary government , and fixed upon its principal officers , ten of whom were drawn from the thirteen members of the committee of safety . Between 1 and 2 of the clock , by squads and by different routes to avoid notice , and having first taken the precaution of ascertaining whether there was anyone there to oppose them , they proceeded to the Government building to proclaim the new Government . No sign of opposition was manifest , and thereupon an American citizen began to read the proclamation from the steps of the Government building , almost entirely without auditors . It is said that before the reading was finished quite a concourse of persons , variously estimated at from 50 to 100 , some armed and some unarmed , gathered about the committee to give them aid and confidence . This statement is not important , since the one controlling factor in the whole affair was unquestionably the United States marines , who , drawn up under arms and with artillery in readiness only 76 yards distant , dominated the situation . The Provisional Government thus proclaimed was by the terms of the proclamation to exist until terms of union with the United States had been negotiated and agreed upon . The United States minister , pursuant to prior agreement , recognized this Government within an hour after the reading of the proclamation , and before 5 of the clock , in answer to an inquiry on behalf of the Queen and her cabinet , announced that he had done so . When our minister recognized the Provisional Government , the only basis upon which it rested was the fact that the committee of safety had in the manner above stated declared it to exist . It was neither a government de fato nor de jure . That it was not in such possession of the Government property and agencies as entitled it to recognition is conclusively proved by a note found in the files of the legation at Honolulu , addressed by the declared head of the Provisional Government to Minister Stevens , dated January 17 , 1893 , in which he acknowledges with expressions of appreciation the minister s recognition of the Provisional Government , and states that it is not yet in the possession of the station house the place where a large number of the Queen s troops were quartered , though the same had been demanded of the Queen s officers in charge . Nevertheless , this wrongful recognition by our minister placed the Government of the Queen in a position of most perilous perplexity . On the one hand she had possession of the palace , of the barracks , and of the police station , and had at her command at least 500 fully armed men and several pieces of artillery . Indeed , the whole military force of her Kingdom was on her side and at her disposal , while the committee of safety , by actual search , had discovered that there were but very few arms in Honolulu that were not in the service of the Government . In this state of things , if the Queen could have dealt with the insurgents alone , her course would have been plain and the result unmistakable . But the United States had allied itself with her enemies , had recognized them as the true Government of Hawaii , and had put her and her adherents in the position of opposition against lawful authority . She knew that she could not withstand the power of the United States , but she believed that she might safely trust to its justice . Accordingly , some hours after the recognition of the Provisional Government by the United States minister , the palace , the barracks , and the police station , with all the military resources of the country , were delivered up by the Queen upon the representation made to her that her cause would thereafter be reviewed at Washington , and while protesting that she surrendered to the superior force of the United States , whose minister had caused United States troops to be landed at Honolulu and declared that he would support the Provisional Government , and that she yielded her authority to prevent collision of armed forces and loss of life , and only until such time as the United States , upon the facts being presented to it , should undo the action of its representative and reinstate her in the authority she claimed as the constitutional sovereign of the Hawaiian Islands . This protest was delivered to the chief of the Provisional Government , who indorsed thereon his acknowledgment of its receipt . The terms of the protest were read without dissent by those assuming to constitute the Provisional Government , who were certainly charged with the knowledge that the Queen , instead of finally abandoning her power , had appealed to the justice of the United States for reinstatement in her authority and yet the Provisional Government , with this unanswered protest in its hand , hastened to negotiate with the United States for the permanent banishment of the Queen from power and for a sale of her Kingdom . Our country was in danger of occupying the position of having actually set up a temporary government on foreign soil for the purpose of acquiring through that agency territory which we had wrongfully put in its possession . The control of both sides of a bargain acquired in such a manner is called by a familiar and unpleasant name when found in private transactions . We are not without a precedent showing how scrupulously we avoided such accusations in former days . After the people of Texas had declared their independence of Mexico they resolved that on the acknowledgment of their independence by the United States they would seek admission into the Union . Several months after the battle of San Jacinto , by which Texan independence was practically assured and established , President Jackson declined to recognize it , alleging as one of his reasons that in the circumstances it became us to beware of a too early movement , as it might subject us , however unjustly , to the imputation of seeking to establish the claim of our neighbors to a territory with a view to its subsequent acquisition by ourselves . This is in marked contrast with the hasty recognition of a government openly and concededly set up for the purpose of tendering to us territorial annexation . I believe that a candid and thorough examination of the facts will force the conviction that the Provisional Government owes its existence to an armed invasion by the United States . Fair minded people , with the evidence before them , will hardly claim that the Hawaiian Government was overthrown by the people of the islands or that the Provisional Government had ever existed with their consent . I do not understand that any member of this Government claims that the people would uphold it by their suffrages if they were allowed to vote on the question . While naturally sympathizing with every effort to establish a republican form of government , it has been the settled policy of the United States to concede to people of foreign countries the same freedom and independence in the management of their domestic affairs that we have always claimed for ourselves , and it has been our practice to recognize revolutionary governments as soon as it became apparent that they were supported by the people . For illustration of this rule I need only to refer to the revolution in Brazil in 1889 , when our minister was instructed to recognize the Republic so soon as a majority of the people of Brazil should have signified their assent to its establishment and maintenance to the revolution in Chile in 1891 , when our minister was directed to recognize the new Government if it was accepted by the people , and to the revolution in Venezuela in 1892 , when our recognition was accorded on condition that the new Government was fully established , in possession of the power of the nation , and accepted by the people . As I apprehend the situation , we are brought face to face with the following conditions The lawful Government of Hawaii was overthrown without the drawing of a sword or the firing of a shot by a process every step of which , it may safely be asserted , is directly traceable to and dependent for its success upon the agency of the United States acting through its diplomatic and naval representatives . But for the notorious predilections of the United States minister for annexation the committee of safety , which should be called the committee of annexation , would never have existed . But for the landing of the United States forces upon false pretexts respecting the danger to life and property the committee would never have exposed themselves to the pains and penalties of treason by undertaking the subversion of the Queen s Government . But for the presence of the United States forces in the immediate vicinity and in position to afford all needed protection and support the committee would not have proclaimed the Provisional Government from the steps of the Government building . And finally , but for the lawless occupation of Honolulu under false pretexts by the United States forces , and but for Minister Stevens s recognition of the Provisional Government when the United States forces were its sole support and constituted its only military strength , the Queen and her Government would never have yielded to the Provisional Government , even for a time and for the sole purpose of submitting her case to the enlightened justice of the United States . Believing , therefore , that the United States could not , under the circumstances disclosed , annex the islands without justly incurring the imputation of acquiring them by unjustifiable methods , I shall not again submit the treaty of annexation to the Senate for its consideration , and in the instructions to Minister Willis , a copy of which accompanies this message , I have directed him to so inform the Provisional Government . But in the present instance our duty does not , in my opinion , end with refusing to consummate this questionable transaction . It has been the boast of our Government that it seeks to do justice in all things without regard to the strength or weakness of those with whom it deals . I mistake the American people if they favor the odious doctrine that there is no such thing as international morality that there is one law for a strong nation and another for a weak one , and that even by indirection a strong power may with impunity despoil a weak one of its territory . By an act of war , committed with the participation of a diplomatic representative of the United States and without authority of Congress , the Government of a feeble but friendly and confiding people has been overthrown . A substantial wrong has thus been done which a due regard for our national character as well as the rights of the injured people requires we should endeavor to repair . The Provisional Government has not assumed a republican or other constitutional form , but has remained a mere executive council or oligarchy , set up without the assent of the people . It has not sought to find a permanent basis of popular support and has given no evidence of an intention to do so . Indeed , the representatives of that Government assert that the people of Hawaii are unfit for popular government and frankly avow that they can be best ruled by arbitrary or despotic power . The law of nations is rounded upon reason and justice , and the rules of conduct governing individual relations between citizens or subjects of a civilized state are equally applicable as between enlightened nations . The considerations that international law is without a court for its enforcement and that obedience to its commands practically depends upon good faith instead of upon the mandate of a superior tribunal only give additional sanction to the law itself and brand any deliberate infraction of it not merely as a wrong , but as a disgrace . A man of true honor protects the unwritten word which binds his conscience more scrupulously , if possible , than he does the bond a breach of which subjects him to legal liabilities , and the United States , in aiming to maintain itself as one of the most enlightened nations , would do its citizens gross injustice if it applied to its international relations any other than a high standard of honor and morality . On that ground the United States can not properly be put in the position of countenancing a wrong after its commission any more than in that of consenting to it in advance . On that ground it can not allow itself to refuse to redress an injury inflicted through an abuse of power by officers clothed with its authority and wearing its uniform and on the same ground , if a feeble but friendly state is in danger of being robbed of its independence and its sovereignty by a misuse of the name and power of the United States , the United States can not fail to vindicate its honor and its sense of justice by an earnest effort to make all possible reparation . These principles apply to the present case with irresistible force when the special conditions of the Queen s surrender of her sovereignty are recalled . She surrendered , not to the Provisional Government , but to the United States . She surrendered , not absolutely and permanently , but temporarily and conditionally until such time as the facts could be considered by the United States . Furthermore , the Provisional Government acquiesced in her surrender in that manner and on those terms , not only by tacit consent , but through the positive acts of some members of that Government , who urged her peaceable submission , not merely to avoid bloodshed , but because she could place implicit reliance upon the justice of the United States and that the whole subject would be finally considered at Washington . I have not , however , overlooked an incident of this unfortunate affair which remains to be mentioned . The members of the Provisional Government and their supporters , though not entitled to extreme sympathy , have been led to their present predicament of revolt against the Government of the Queen by the indefensible encouragement and assistance of our diplomatic representative . This fact may entitle them to claim that in our effort to rectify the wrong committed some regard should be had for their safety . This sentiment is strongly seconded by my anxiety to do nothing which would invite either harsh retaliation on the part of the Queen or violence and bloodshed in any quarter . In the belief that the Queen , as well as her enemies , would be willing to adopt such a course as would meet these conditions , and in view of the fact that both the Queen and the Provisional Government had at one time apparently acquiesced in a reference of the entire case to the United States Government , and considering the further fact that in any event the Provisional Government by its own declared limitation was only to exist until terms of union with the United States of America have been negotiated and agreed upon , I hoped that after the assurance to the members of that Government that such union could not be consummated I might compass a peaceful adjustment of the difficulty . Actuated by these desires and purposes , and not unmindful of the inherent perplexities of the situation nor of the limitations upon my power , I instructed Minister Willis to advise the Queen and her supporters of my desire to aid in the restoration of the status existing before the lawless landing of the United States forces at Honolulu on the 16th of January last if such restoration could be effected upon terms providing for clemency as well as justice to all parties concerned . The conditions suggested , as the instructions show , contemplate a general amnesty to those concerned in setting up the Provisional Government and a recognition of all its bona fide acts and obligations . In short , they require that the past should be buried and that the restored Government should reassume its authority as if its continuity had not been interrupted These conditions have not proved acceptable to the Queen , and though she has been informed that they will be insisted upon and that unless acceded to the efforts of the President to aid in the restoration of her Government will cease , I have not thus far learned that she is willing to yield them her acquiescence . The check which my plans have thus encountered has prevented their presentation to the members of the Provisional Government , while unfortunate public misrepresentations of the situation and exaggerated statements of the sentiments of our people have obviously injured the prospects of successful Executive mediation . I therefore submit this communication , with its accompanying exhibits , embracing Blount s report , the evidence and statements taken by him at Honolulu , the instructions given to both Blount and Minister Willis , and correspondence connected with the affair in hand . In commending this subject to the extended powers and wide discretion of the Congress I desire to add the assurance that I shall be much gratified to cooperate in any legislative plan which may be devised for the solution of the problem before us which is consistent with American honor , integrity , and morality .<speech_sep>By the President of the United States of America A Proclamation Whereas , by reason of unlawful obstructions , combinations , and assemblages of persons , it has become impracticable , in the judgment of the President , to enforce by the ordinary course of judicial proceedings the laws of the United States within the State of Illinois , and especially in the city of Chicago within said State and Whereas , for the purpose of enforcing the faithful execution of the laws of the United States and protecting its property and removing obstructions to the United States mails in the State and city aforesaid , the President has employed a part of the military forces of the United States Now , therefore , Grover Cleveland , President of the United States , do hereby admonish all good citizens and all persons who may be or may come within the city and State aforesaid against aiding , countenancing , encouraging , or taking any part in such unlawful obstructions , combinations , and assemblages and I hereby warn all persons engaged in or in any way connected with such unlawful obstructions , combinations , and assemblages to disperse and retire peaceably to their respective abodes on or before 12 of the clock noon on the 9th day of July instant . Those who disregard this warning and persist in taking part with a riotous mob in forcibly resisting and obstructing the execution of the laws of the United States or interfering with the functions of the Government or destroying or attempting to destroy the property belonging to the United States or under its protection can not be regarded otherwise than as public enemies . Troops employed against such a riotous mob will act with all the moderation and forbearance consistent with the accomplishment of the desired end , but the stern necessities that confront them will not with certainty permit discrimination between guilty participants and those who are mingled with them from curiosity and without criminal intent . The only safe course , therefore , for those not actually unlawfully participating is to abide at their homes , or at least not to be found in the neighborhood of riotous assemblages . While there will be no hesitation or vacillation in the decisive treatment of the guilty , this warning is especially intended to protect and save the innocent . In testimony whereof I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be hereto affixed . Done at the city of Washington , this 8th day of July , 1894 , and of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and nineteenth . GROVER CLEVELAND . By the President Secretary of State .<speech_sep>To the Congress of the United States You are confronted at the threshold of your legislative duties with a condition of the national finances which imperatively demands immediate and careful consideration . The amount of money annually exacted , through the operation of present laws , from the industries and necessities of the people largely exceeds the sum necessary to meet the expenses of the Government . When we consider that the theory of our institutions guarantees to every citizen the full enjoyment of all the fruits of his industry and enterprise , with only such deduction as may be his share toward the careful and economical maintenance of the Government which protects him , it is plain that the exaction of more than this is indefensible extortion and a culpable betrayal of American fairness and justice . This wrong inflicted upon those who bear the burden of national taxation , like other wrongs , multiplies a brood of evil consequences . The public Treasury , which should only exist as a conduit conveying the people s tribute to its legitimate objects of expenditure , becomes a hoarding place for money needlessly withdrawn from trade and the people s use , thus crippling our national energies , suspending our country s development , preventing investment in productive enterprise , threatening financial disturbance , and inviting schemes of public plunder . This condition of our Treasury is not altogether new , and it has more than once of late been submitted to the people s representatives in the Congress , who alone can apply a remedy . And yet the situation still continues , with aggravated incidents , more than ever presaging financial convulsion and widespread disaster . It will not do to neglect this situation because its dangers are not now palpably imminent and apparent . They exist none the less certainly , and await the unforeseen and unexpected occasion when suddenly they will be precipitated upon us . On the 30th day of June , 1885 , the excess of revenues over public expenditures , after complying with the annual requirement of the sinking fund act , was 17 , 859 , 735 . 84 during the year ended June 30 , 1886 , such excess amounted to 49 , 405 , 545 . 20 , and during the year ended June 30 , 1887 , it reached the sum of 55 , 567 , 849 . 54 . The annual contributions to the sinking fund during the three years above specified , amounting in the aggregate to 138 , 058 , 320 . 94 , and deducted from the surplus as stated , were made by calling in for that purpose outstanding 3 per cent bonds of the Government . During the six months prior to June 30 , 1887 , the surplus revenue had grown so large by repeated accumulations , and it was feared the withdrawal of this great sum of money needed by the people would so affect the business of the country , that the sum of 79 , 864 , 100 of such surplus was applied to the payment of the principal and interest of the 3 per cent bonds still outstanding , and which were then payable at the option of the Government . The precarious condition of financial affairs among the people still needing relief , immediately after the 30th day of June , 1887 , the remainder of the 3 per cent bonds then outstanding , amounting with principal and interest to the sum of 18 , 877 , 500 , were called in and applied to the sinking fund contribution for the current fiscal year . Notwithstanding these operations of the Treasury Department , representations of distress in business circles not only continued , but increased , and absolute peril seemed at hand . In these circumstances the contribution to the sinking fund for the current fiscal year was at once completed by the expenditure of 27 , 684 , 283 . 55 in the purchase of Government bonds not yet due bearing 4 and 41 2 per cent interest , the premium paid thereon averaging about 24 per cent for the former and 8 per cent for the latter . In addition to this , the interest accruing during the current year upon the outstanding bonded indebtedness of the Government was to some extent anticipated , and banks selected as depositories of public money were permitted to somewhat increase their deposits . While the expedients thus employed to release to the people the money lying idle in the Treasury served to avert immediate danger , our surplus revenues have continued to accumulate , the excess for the present year amounting on the 1st day of December to 55 , 258 , 701 . 19 , and estimated to reach the sum of 113 , 000 , 000 on the 30th of June next , at which date it is expected that this sum , added to prior accumulations , will swell the surplus in the Treasury to 140 , 000 , 000 . There seems to be no assurance that , with such a withdrawal from use of the people s circulating medium , our business community may not in the near future be subjected to the same distress which was quite lately produced from the same cause . And while the functions of our National Treasury should be few and simple , and while its best condition would be reached , I believe , by its entire disconnection with private business interests , yet when , by a perversion of its purposes , it idly holds money uselessly subtracted from the channels of trade , there seems to be reason for the claim that some legitimate means should be devised by the Government to restore in an emergency , without waste or extravagance , such money to its place among the people . If such an emergency arises , there now exists no clear and undoubted executive power of relief . Heretofore the redemption of 3 per cent bonds , which were payable at the option of the Government , has afforded a means for the disbursement of the excess of our revenues but these bonds have all been retired , and there are no bonds outstanding the payment of which we have a right to insist upon . The contribution to the sinking fund which furnishes the occasion for expenditure in the purchase of bonds has been already made for the current year , so that there is no outlet in that direction . In the present state of legislation the only pretense of any existing executive power to restore at this time any part of our surplus revenues to the people by its expenditure consists in the supposition that the Secretary of the Treasury may enter the market and purchase the bonds of the Government not yet due , at a rate of premium to be agreed upon . The only provision of law from which such a power could be derived is found in an appropriation bill passed a number of years ago , and it is subject to the suspicion that it was intended as temporary and limited in its application , instead of conferring a continuing discretion and authority . No condition ought to exist which would justify the grant of power to a single official , upon his judgment of its necessity , to withhold from or release to the business of the people , in an unusual manner , money held in the Treasury , and thus affect at his will the financial situation of the country and if it is deemed wise to lodge in the Secretary of the Treasury the authority in the present juncture to purchase bonds , it should be plainly vested , and provided , as far as possible , with such checks and limitations as will define this official s right and discretion and at the same time relieve him from undue responsibility . In considering the question of purchasing bonds as a means of restoring to circulation the surplus money accumulating in the Treasury , it should be borne in mind that premiums must of course be paid upon such purchase , that there may be a large part of these bonds held as investments which can not be purchased at any price , and that combinations among holders who are willing to sell may unreasonably enhance the cost of such bonds to the Government . It has been suggested that the present bonded debt might be refunded at a less rate of interest and the difference between the old and new security paid in cash , thus finding use for the surplus in the Treasury . The success of this plan , it is apparent , must depend upon the volition of the holders of the present bonds and it is not entirely certain that the inducement which must be offered them would result in more financial benefit to the Government than the purchase of bonds , while the latter proposition would reduce the principal of the debt by actual payment instead of extending it . The proposition to deposit the money held by the Government in banks throughout the country for use by the people is , it seems to me , exceedingly objectionable in principle , as establishing too close a relationship between the operations of the Government Treasury and the business of the country and too extensive a commingling of their money , thus fostering an unnatural reliance in private business upon public funds . If this scheme should be adopted , it should only be done as a temporary expedient to meet an urgent necessity . Legislative and executive effort should generally be in the opposite direction , and should have a tendency to divorce , as much and as fast as can be safely done , the Treasury Department from private enterprise . Of course it is not expected that unnecessary and extravagant appropriations will be made for the purpose of avoiding the accumulation of an excess of revenue . Such expenditure , besides the demoralization of all just conceptions of public duty which it entails , stimulates a habit of reckless improvidence not in the least consistent with the mission of our people or the high and beneficent purposes of our Government . I have deemed it my duty to thus bring to the knowledge of my countrymen , as well as to the attention of their representatives charged with the responsibility of legislative relief , the gravity of our financial situation . The failure of the Congress heretofore to provide against the dangers which it was quite evident the very nature of the difficulty must necessarily produce caused a condition of financial distress and apprehension since your last adjournment which taxed to the utmost all the authority and expedients within executive control and these appear now to be exhausted . If disaster results from the continued inaction of Congress , the responsibility must rest where it belongs . Though the situation thus far considered is fraught with danger which should be fully realized , and though it presents features of wrong to the people as well as peril to the country , it is but a result growing out of a perfectly palpable and apparent cause , constantly reproducing the same alarming circumstances a congested National Treasury and a depleted monetary condition in the business of the country . It need hardly be stated that while the present situation demands a remedy , we can only be saved from a like predicament in the future by the removal of its cause . Our scheme of taxation , by means of which this needless surplus is taken from the people and put into the public Treasury , consists of a tariff or duty levied upon importations from abroad and internal revenue taxes levied upon the consumption of tobacco and spirituous and malt liquors . It must be conceded that none of the things subjected to internal revenue taxation are , strictly speaking , necessaries . There appears to be no just complaint of this taxation by the consumers of these articles , and there seems to be nothing so well able to bear the burden without hardship to any portion of the people . But our present tariff laws , the vicious , inequitable , and illogical source of unnecessary taxation , ought to be at once revised and amended . These laws , as their primary and plain effect , raise the price to consumers of all articles imported and subject to duty by precisely the sum paid for such duties . Thus the amount of the duty measures the tax paid by those who purchase for use these imported articles . Many of these things , however , are raised or manufactured in our own country , and the duties now levied upon foreign goods and products are called protection to these home manufactures , because they render it possible for those of our people who are manufacturers to make these taxed articles and sell them for a price equal to that demanded for the imported goods that have paid customs duty . So it happens that while comparatively a few use the imported articles , millions of our people , who never used and never saw any of the foreign products , purchase and use things of the same kind made in this country , and pay therefor nearly or quite the same enhanced price which the duty adds to the imported articles . Those who buy imports pay the duty charged thereon into the public Treasury , but the great majority of our citizens , who buy domestic articles of the same class , pay a sum at least approximately equal to this duty to the home manufacturer . This reference to the operation of our tariff laws is not made by way of instruction , but in order that we may be constantly reminded of the manner in which they impose a burden upon those who consume domestic products as well as those who consume imported articles , and thus create a tax upon all our people . It is not proposed to entirely relieve the country of this taxation . It must be extensively continued as the source of the Government s income and in a readjustment of our tariff the interests of American labor engaged in manufacture should be carefully considered , as well as the preservation of our manufacturers . It may be called protection or by any other name , but relief from the hardships and dangers of our present tariff laws should be devised with especial precaution against imperiling the existence of our manufacturing interests . But this existence should not mean a condition which , without regard to the public welfare or a national exigency , must always insure the realization of immense profits instead of moderately profitable returns . As the volume and diversity of our national activities increase , new recruits are added to those who desire a continuation of the advantages which they conceive the present system of tariff taxation directly affords them . So stubbornly have all efforts to reform the present condition been resisted by those of our fellow citizens thus engaged that they can hardly complain of the suspicion , entertained to a certain extent , that there exists an organized combination all along the line to maintain their advantage . We are in the midst of centennial celebrations , and with becoming pride we rejoice in American skill and ingenuity , in American energy and enterprise , and in the wonderful natural advantages and resources developed by a century s national growth . Yet when an attempt is made to justify a scheme which permits a tax to be laid upon every consumer in the land for the benefit of our manufacturers , quite beyond a reasonable demand for governmental regard , it suits the purposes of advocacy to call our manufactures infant industries still needing the highest and greatest degree of favor and fostering care that can be wrung from Federal legislation . It is also said that the increase in the price of domestic manufactures resulting from the present tariff is necessary in order that higher wages may be paid to our workingmen employed in manufactories than are paid for what is called the pauper labor of Europe . All will acknowledge the force of an argument which involves the welfare and liberal compensation of our laboring people . Our labor is honorable in the eyes of every American citizen and as it lies at the foundation of our development and progress , it is entitled , without affectation or hypocrisy , to the utmost regard . The standard of our laborers life should not be measured by that of any other country less favored , and they are entitled to their full share of all our advantages . By the last census it is made to appear that of the 17 , 392 , 099 of our population engaged in all kinds of industries 7 , 670 , 493 are employed in agriculture , 4 , 074 , 238 in professional and personal service 2 , 934 , 876 of whom are domestic servants and laborers , while 1 , 810 , 256 are employed in trade and transportation and 3 , 837 , 112 are classed as employed in manufacturing and mining . For present purposes , however , the last number given should be considerably reduced . Without attempting to enumerate all , it will be conceded that there should be deducted from those which it includes 375 , 143 carpenters and joiners , 285 , 401 milliners , dressmakers , and seamstresses , 172 , 726 blacksmiths , 133 , 756 tailors and tailoresses , 102 , 473 masons , 76 , 241 butchers , 41 , 309 bakers , 22 , 083 plasterers , and 4 , 891 engaged in manufacturing agricultural implements , amounting in the aggregate to 1 , 214 , 023 , leaving 2 , 623 , 089 persons employed in such manufacturing industries as are claimed to be benefited by a high tariff . To these the appeal is made to save their employment and maintain their wages by resisting a change . There should be no disposition to answer such suggestions by the allegation that they are in a minority among those who labor , and therefore should forego an advantage in the interest of low prices for the majority . Their compensation , as it may be affected by the operation of tariff laws , should at all times be scrupulously kept in view and yet with slight reflection they will not overlook the fact that they are consumers with the rest that they too have their own wants and those of their families to supply from their earnings , and that the price of the necessaries of life , as well as the amount of their wages , will regulate the measure of their welfare and comfort . But the reduction of taxation demanded should be so measured as not to necessitate or justify either the loss of employment by the workingman or the lessening of his wages and the profits still remaining to the manufacturer after a necessary readjustment should furnish no excuse for the sacrifice of the interests of his employees , either in their opportunity to work or in the diminution of their compensation . Nor can the worker in manufactures fail to understand that while a high tariff is claimed to be necessary to allow the payment of remunerative wages , it certainly results in a very large increase in the price of nearly all sorts of manufactures , which , in almost countless forms , he needs for the use of himself and his family . He receives at the desk of his employer his wages , and perhaps before he reaches his home is obliged , in a purchase for family use of an article which embraces his own labor , to return in the payment of the increase in price which the tariff permits the hard earned compensation of many days of toil . The farmer and the agriculturist , who manufacture nothing , but who pay the increased price which the tariff imposes upon every agricultural implement , upon all he wears , and upon all he uses and owns , except the increase of his flocks and herds and such things as his husbandry produces from the soil , is invited to aid in maintaining the present situation and he is told that a high duty on imported wool is necessary for the benefit of those who have sheep to shear , in order that the price of their wool may be increased . They , of course , are not reminded that the farmer who has no sheep is by this scheme obliged , in his purchases of clothing and woolen goods , to pay a tribute to his fellow farmer as well as to the manufacturer and merchant , nor is any mention made of the fact that the sheep owners themselves and their households must wear clothing and use other articles manufactured from the wool they sell at tariff prices , and thus as consumers must return their share of this increased price to the tradesman . I think it may be fairly assumed that a large proportion of the sheep owned by the farmers throughout the country are found in small flocks , numbering from twenty five to fifty . The duty on the grade of imported wool which these sheep yield is 10 cents each pound if of the value of 30 cents or less and 12 cents if of the value of more than 30 cents . If the liberal estimate of 6 pounds be allowed for each fleece , the duty thereon would be 60 or 72 cents and this may be taken as the utmost enhancement of its price to the farmer by reason of this duty . Eighteen dollars would thus represent the increased price of the wool from twenty five sheep and 36 that from the wool of fifty sheep and at present values this addition would amount to about one third of its price . If upon its sale the farmer receives this or a less tariff profit , the wool leaves his hands charged with precisely that sum , which in all its changes will adhere to it until it reaches the consumer . When manufactured into cloth and other goods and material for use , its cost is not only increased to the extent of the farmer s tariff profit , but a further sum has been added for the benefit of the manufacturer under the operation of other tariff laws . In the meantime the day arrives when the farmer finds it necessary to purchase woolen goods and material to clothe himself and family for the winter . When he faces the tradesman for that purpose , he discovers that he is obliged not only to return in the way of increased prices his tariff profit on the wool he sold , and which then perhaps lies before him in manufactured form , but that he must add a considerable sum thereto to meet a further increase in cost caused by a tariff duty on the manufacture . Thus in the end he is aroused to the fact that he has paid upon a moderate purchase , as a result of the tariff scheme , which when he sold his wool seemed so profitable , an increase in price more than sufficient to sweep away all the tariff profit he received upon the wool he produced and sold . When the number of farmers engaged in wool raising is compared with all the farmers in the country and the small proportion they bear to our population is considered when it is made apparent that in the case of a large part of those who own sheep the benefit of the present tariff on wool is illusory and , above all , when it must be conceded that the increase of the cost of living caused by such tariff becomes a burden upon those with moderate means and the poor , the employed and unemployed , the sick and well , and the young and old , and that it constitutes a tax which with relentless grasp is fastened upon the clothing of every man , woman , and child in the land , reasons are suggested why the removal or reduction of this duty should be included in a revision of our tariff laws . In speaking of the increased cost to the consumer of our home manufactures resulting from a duty laid upon imported articles of the same description , the fact is not ever looked that competition among our domestic producers sometimes has the effect of keeping the price of their products below the highest limit allowed by such duty . But it is notorious that this competition is too often strangled by combinations quite prevalent at this time , and frequently called trusts , which have for their object the regulation of the supply and price of commodities made and sold by members of the combination . The people can hardly hope for any consideration in the operation of these selfish schemes . If , however , in the absence of such combination , a healthy and free competition reduces the price of any particular dutiable article of home production below the limit which it might otherwise reach under our tariff laws , and if with such reduced price its manufacture continues to thrive , it is entirely evident that one thing has been discovered which should be carefully scrutinized in an effort to reduce taxation . The necessity of combination to maintain the price of any commodity to the tariff point furnishes proof that someone is willing to accept lower prices for such commodity and that such prices are remunerative and lower prices produced by competition prove the same thing . Thus where either of these conditions exists a case would seem to be presented for an easy reduction of taxation . The considerations which have been presented touching our tariff laws are intended only to enforce an earnest recommendation that the surplus revenues of the Government be prevented by the reduction of our customs duties , and at the same time to emphasize a suggestion that in accomplishing this purpose we may discharge a double duty to our people by granting to them a measure of relief from tariff taxation in quarters where it is most needed and from sources where it can be most fairly and justly accorded . Nor can the presentation made of such considerations be with any degree of fairness regarded as evidence of unfriendliness toward our manufacturing interests or of any lack of appreciation of their value and importance . These interests constitute a leading and most substantial element of our national greatness and furnish the proud proof of our country s progress . But if in the emergency that presses upon us our manufacturers are asked to surrender something for the public good and to avert disaster , their patriotism , as well as a grateful recognition of advantages already afforded , should lead them to willing cooperation . No demand is made that they shall forego all the benefits of governmental regard but they can not fail to be admonished of their duty , as well as their enlightened self interest and safety , when they are reminded of the fact that financial panic and collapse , to which the present condition tends , afford no greater shelter or protection to our manufactures than to other important enterprises . Opportunity for safe , careful , and deliberate reform is now offered and none of us should be unmindful of a time when an abused and irritated people , heedless of those who have resisted timely and reasonable relief , may insist upon a radical and sweeping rectification of their wrongs . The difficulty attending a wise and fair revision of our tariff laws is not underestimated . It will require on the part of the Congress great labor and care , and especially a broad and national contemplation of the subject and a patriotic disregard of such local and selfish claims as are unreasonable and reckless of the welfare of the entire country . Under our present laws more than 4 , 000 articles are subject to duty . Many of these do not in any way compete with our own manufactures , and many are hardly worth attention as subjects of revenue . A considerable reduction can be made in the aggregate by adding them to the free list . The taxation of luxuries presents no features of hardship but the necessaries of life used and consumed by all the people , the duty upon which adds to the cost of living in every home , should be greatly cheapened . The radical reduction of the duties imposed upon raw material used in manufactures , or its free importation , is of course an important factor in any effort to reduce the price of these necessaries . It would not only relieve them from the increased cost caused by the tariff on such material , but the manufactured product being thus cheapened that part of the tariff now laid upon such product , as a compensation to our manufacturers for the present price of raw material , could be accordingly modified . Such reduction or free importation would serve besides to largely reduce the revenue . It is not apparent how such a change can have any injurious effect upon our manufacturers . On the contrary , it would appear to give them a better chance in foreign markets with the manufacturers of other countries , who cheapen their wares by free material . Thus our people might have the opportunity of extending their sales beyond the limits of home consumption , saving them from the depression , interruption in business , and loss caused by a glutted domestic market and affording their employees more certain and steady labor , with its resulting quiet and contentment . The question thus imperatively presented for solution should be approached in a spirit higher than partisanship and considered in the light of that regard for patriotic duty which should characterize the action of those intrusted with the weal of a confiding people . But the obligation to declared party policy and principle is not wanting to urge prompt and effective action . Both of the great political parties now represented in the Government have by repeated and authoritative declarations condemned the condition of our laws which permit the collection from the people of unnecessary revenue , and have in the most solemn manner promised its correction and neither as citizens nor partisans are our countrymen in a mood to condone the deliberate violation of these pledges . Our progress toward a wise conclusion will not be improved by dwelling upon the theories of protection and free trade . This savors too much of bandying epithets . It is a condition which confronts us , not a theory . Relief from this condition may involve a slight reduction of the advantages which we award our home productions , but the entire withdrawal of such advantages should not be contemplated . The question of free trade is absolutely irrelevant , and the persistent claim made in certain quarters that all the efforts to relieve the people from unjust and unnecessary taxation are schemes of so called free traders is mischievous and far removed from any consideration for the public good . The simple and plain duty which we owe the people is to reduce taxation to the necessary expenses of an economical operation of the Government and to restore to the business of the country the money which we hold in the Treasury through the perversion of governmental powers . These things can and should be done with safety to all our industries , without danger to the opportunity for remunerative labor which our workingmen need , and with benefit to them and all our people by cheapening their means of subsistence and increasing the measure of their comforts . The Constitution provides that the President shall from time to time give to the Congress information of the state of the Union . It has been the custom of the Executive , in compliance with this provision , to annually exhibit to the Congress , at the opening of its session , the general condition of the country , and to detail with some particularity the operations of the different Executive Departments . It would be especially agreeable to follow this course at the present time and to call attention to the valuable accomplishments of these Departments during the last fiscal year but I am so much impressed with the paramount importance of the subject to which this communication has thus far been devoted that I shall forego the addition of any other topic , and only urge upon your immediate consideration the state of the Union as shown in the present condition of our Treasury and our general fiscal situation , upon which every element of our safety and prosperity depends . The reports of the heads of Departments , which will be submitted , contain full and explicit information touching the transaction of the business intrusted to them and such recommendations relating to legislation in the public interest as they deem advisable . I ask for these reports and recommendations the deliberate examination and action of the legislative branch of the Government . There are other subjects not embraced in the departmental reports demanding legislative consideration , and which I should be glad to submit . Some of them , however , have been earnestly presented in previous messages , and as to them I beg leave to repeat prior recommendations . As the law makes no provision for any report from the Department of State , a brief history of the transactions of that important Department , together with other matters which it may hereafter be deemed essential to commend to the attention of the Congress , may furnish the occasion for a future communication .<speech_sep>To the Congress of the United States In discharge of a constitutional duty , and following a well established precedent in the Executive office , I herewith transmit to the Congress at its reassembling certain information concerning the state of the Union , together with such recommendations for legislative consideration as appear necessary and expedient . Our Government has consistently maintained its relations of friendship toward all other powers and of neighborly interest toward those whose possessions are contiguous to our own . Few questions have arisen during the past year with other governments , and none of those are beyond the reach of settlement in friendly counsel . We are as yet without provision for the settlement of claims of citizens of the United States against Chile for injustice during the late war with Peru and Bolivia . The mixed commissions organized under claims conventions concluded by the Chilean Government with certain European States have developed an amount of friction which we trust can be avoided in the convention which our representative at Santiago is authorized to negotiate . The cruel treatment of inoffensive Chinese has , I regret to say , been repeated in some of the far Western States and Territories , and acts of violence against those people , beyond the power of the local constituted authorities to prevent and difficult to punish , are reported even in distant Alaska . Much of this violence can be traced to race prejudice and competition of labor , which can not , however , justify the oppression of strangers whose safety is guaranteed by our treaty with China equally with the most favored nations . In opening our vast domain to alien elements the purpose of our lawgivers was to invite assimilation , and not to provide an arena for endless antagonism . The paramount duty of maintaining public order and defending the interests of our own people may require the adoption of measures of restriction , but they should not tolerate the oppression of individuals of a special race . I am not without assurance that the Government of China , whose friendly disposition toward us I am most happy to recognize , will meet us halfway in devising a comprehensive remedy by which an effective limitation of Chinese emigration , joined to protection of those Chinese subjects who remain in this country , may be secured . Legislation is needed to execute the provisions of our Chinese convention of 1880 touching the opium traffic . While the good will of the Colombian Government toward our country is manifest , the situation of American interests on the Isthmus of Panama has at times excited concern and invited friendly action looking to the performance of the engagements of the two nations concerning the territory embraced in the interoceanic transit . With the subsidence of the Isthmian disturbances and the erection of the State of Panama into a federal district under the direct government of the constitutional administration at Bogota , a new order of things has been inaugurated , which , although as yet somewhat experimental and affording scope for arbitrary exercise of power by the delegates of the national authority , promises much improvement . The sympathy between the people of the United States and France , born during our colonial struggle for independence and continuing today , has received a fresh impulse in the successful completion and dedication of the colossal statue of Liberty Enlightening the World in New York Harbor the gift of Frenchmen to Americans . A convention between the United States and certain other powers for the protection of submarine cables was signed at Paris on March 14 , 1884 , and has been duly ratified and proclaimed by this Government . By agreement between the high contracting parties this convention is to go into effect on the 1st of January next , but the legislation required for its execution in the United States has not yet been adopted . I earnestly recommend its enactment . Cases have continued to occur in Germany giving rise to much correspondence in relation to the privilege of sojourn of our naturalized citizens of German origin revisiting the land of their birth , yet I am happy to state that our relations with that country have lost none of their accustomed cordiality . The claims for interest upon the amount of tonnage dues illegally exacted from certain German steamship lines were favorably reported in both Houses of Congress at the last session , and I trust will receive final and favorable action at an early day . The recommendations contained in my last annual message in relation to a mode of settlement of the fishery rights in the waters of British North America , so long a subject of anxious difference between the United States and Great Britain , was met by an adverse vote of the Senate on April 13 last , and thereupon negotiations were instituted to obtain an agreement with Her Britannic Majesty s Government for the promulgation of such joint interpretation and definition of the article of the convention of 1818 relating to the territorial waters and inshore fisheries of the British Provinces as should secure the Canadian rights from encroachment by the United States fishermen and at the same time insure the enjoyment by the latter of the privileges guaranteed to them by such convention . The questions involved are of long standing , of grave consequence , and from time to time for nearly three quarters of a century have given rise to earnest international discussions , not unaccompanied by irritation . Temporary arrangements by treaties have served to allay friction , which , however , has revived as each treaty was terminated . The last arrangement , under the treaty of 1871 , was abrogated after due notice by the United States on June 30 , 1885 , but I was enabled to obtain for our fishermen for the remainder of that season enjoyment of the full privileges accorded by the terminated treaty . The joint high commission by whom the treaty had been negotiated , although invested with plenary power to make a permanent settlement , were content with a temporary arrangement , after the termination of which the question was relegated to the stipulations of the treaty of 1818 , as to the first article of which no construction satisfactory to both countries has ever been agreed upon . The progress of civilization and growth of population in the British Provinces to which the fisheries in question are contiguous and the expansion of commercial intercourse between them and the United States present to day a condition of affairs scarcely realizable at the date of the negotiations of 1818 . New and vast interests have been brought into existence modes of intercourse between the respective countries have been invented and multiplied the methods of conducting the fisheries have been wholly changed and all this is necessarily entitled to candid and careful consideration in the adjustment of the terms and conditions of intercourse and commerce between the United States and their neighbors along a frontier of over 3 , 500 miles . This propinquity , community of language and occupation , and similarity of political and social institutions indicate the practicability and obvious wisdom of maintaining mutually beneficial and friendly relations . Whilst I am unfeignedly desirous that such relations should exist between us and the inhabitants of Canada , yet the action of their officials during the past season toward our fishermen has been such as to seriously threaten their continuance . Although disappointed in my efforts to secure a satisfactory settlement of the fishery question , negotiations are still pending , with reasonable hope that before the close of the present session of Congress announcement may be made that an acceptable conclusion has been reached . As at an early day there may be laid before Congress the correspondence of the Department of State in relation to this important subject , so that the history of the past fishing season may be fully disclosed and the action and the attitude of the Administration clearly comprehended , a more extended reference is not deemed necessary in this communication . The recommendation submitted last year that provision be made for a preliminary reconnoissance of the conventional boundary line between Alaska and British Columbia is renewed . I express my unhesitating conviction that the intimacy of our relations with Hawaii should be emphasized . As a result of the reciprocity treaty of 1875 , those islands , on the highway of Oriental and Australasian traffic , are virtually an outpost of American commerce and a stepping stone to the growing trade of the Pacific . The Polynesian Island groups have been so absorbed by other and more powerful governments that the Hawaiian Islands are left almost alone in the enjoyment of their autonomy , which it is important for us should be preserved . Our treaty is now terminable on one year s notice , but propositions to abrogate it would be , in my judgment , most ill advised . The paramount influence we have there acquired , once relinquished , could only with difficulty be regained , and a valuable ground of vantage for ourselves might be converted into a stronghold for our commercial competitors . I earnestly recommend that the existing treaty stipulations be extended for a further term of seven years . A recently signed treaty to this end is now before the Senate . The importance of telegraphic communication between those islands and the United States should not be overlooked . The question of a general revision of the treaties of Japan is again under discussion at Tokyo . As the first to open relations with that Empire , and as the nation in most direct commercial relations with Japan , the United States have lost no opportunity to testify their consistent friendship by supporting the just claims of Japan to autonomy and independence among nations . A treaty of extradition between the United States and Japan , the first concluded by that Empire , has been lately proclaimed . The weakness of Liberia and the difficulty of maintaining effective sovereignty over its outlying districts have exposed that Republic to encroachment . It can not be forgotten that this distant community is an offshoot of our own system , owing its origin to the associated benevolence of American citizens , whose praiseworthy efforts to create a nucleus of civilization in the Dark Continent have commanded respect and sympathy everywhere , especially in this country . Although a formal protectorate over Liberia is contrary to our traditional policy , the moral right and duty of the United States to assist in all proper ways in the maintenance of its integrity is obvious , and has been consistently announced during nearly half a century . I recommend that in the reorganization of our Navy a small vessel , no longer found adequate to our needs , be presented to Liberia , to be employed by it in the protection of its coastwise revenues . The encouraging development of beneficial and intimate relations between the United States and Mexico , which has been so marked within the past few years , is at once the occasion of congratulation and of friendly solicitude . I urgently renew my former representation of the need or speedy legislation by Congress to carry into effect the reciprocity commercial convention of January 20 , 1883 . Our commercial treaty of 1831 with Mexico was terminated , according to its provisions , in 1881 , upon notification given by Mexico in pursuance of her announced policy of recasting all her commercial treaties . Mexico has since concluded with several foreign governments new treaties of commerce and navigation , defining alien rights of trade , property , and residence , treatment of shipping , consular privileges , and the like . Our yet unexecuted reciprocity convention of 1883 covers none of these points , the settlement of which is so necessary to good relationship . I propose to initiate with Mexico negotiations for a new and enlarged treaty of commerce and navigation . In compliance with a resolution of the Senate , I communicated to that body on August 2 last , and also to the House of Representatives , the correspondence in the case of Cutting , an American citizen , then imprisoned in Mexico , charged with the commission of a penal offense in Texas , of which a Mexican citizen was the object . After demand had been made for his release the charge against him was amended so as to include a violation of Mexican law within Mexican territory . This joinder of alleged offenses , one within and the other exterior to Mexico , induced me to order a special investigation of the case , pending which Cutting was released . The incident has , however , disclosed a claim of jurisdiction by Mexico novel in our history , whereby any offense committed anywhere by a foreigner , penal in the place of its commission , and of which a Mexican is the object , may , if the offender be found in Mexico , be there tried and punished in conformity with Mexican laws . This jurisdiction was sustained by the courts of Mexico in the Cutting case , and approved by the executive branch of that Government , upon the authority of a Mexican statute . The appellate court in releasing Cutting decided that the abandonment of the complaint by the Mexican citizen aggrieved by the alleged crime a libelous publication removed the basis of further prosecution , and also declared justice to have been satisfied by the enforcement of a small part of the original sentence . The admission of such a pretension would be attended with serious results , invasive of the jurisdiction of this Government and highly dangerous to our citizens in foreign lands . Therefore I have denied it and protested against its attempted exercise as unwarranted by the principles of law and international usages . A sovereign has jurisdiction of offenses which take effect within his territory , although concocted or commenced outside of it but the right is denied of any foreign sovereign to punish a citizen of the United States for an offense consummated on our soil in violation of our laws , even though the offense be against a subject or citizen of such sovereign . The Mexican statute in question makes the claim broadly , and the principle , if conceded , would create a dual responsibility in the citizen and lead to inextricable confusion , destructive of that certainty in the law which is an essential of liberty . When citizens of the United States voluntarily go into a foreign country , they must abide by the laws there in force , and will not be protected by their own Government from the consequences of an offense against those laws committed in such foreign country but watchful care and interest of this Government over its citizens are not relinquished because they have gone abroad , and if charged with crime committed in the foreign land a fair and open trial , conducted with decent regard for justice and humanity , will be demanded for them . With less than that this Government will not be content when the life or liberty of its citizens is at stake . Whatever the degree to which extraterritorial criminal jurisdiction may have been formerly allowed by consent and reciprocal agreement among certain of the European States , no such doctrine or practice was ever known to the laws of this country or of that from which our institutions have mainly been derived . In the case of Mexico there are reasons especially strong for perfect harmony in the mutual exercise of jurisdiction . Nature has made us irrevocably neighbors , and wisdom and kind feeling should make us friends . The overflow of capital and enterprise from the United States is a potent factor in assisting the development of the resources of Mexico and in building up the prosperity of both countries . To assist this good work all grounds of apprehension for the security of person and property should be removed and I trust that in the interests of good neighborhood the statute referred to will be so modified as to eliminate the present possibilities of danger to the peace of the two countries . The Government of the Netherlands has exhibited concern in relation to certain features of our tariff laws , which are supposed by them to be aimed at a class of tobacco produced in the Dutch East Indies . Comment would seem unnecessary upon the unwisdom of legislation appearing to have a special national discrimination for its object , which , although unintentional , may give rise to injurious retaliation . The establishment , less than four years ago , of a legation at Teheran is bearing fruit in the interest exhibited by the Shah s Government in the industrial activity of the United States and the opportunities of beneficial interchanges . Stable government is now happily restored in Peru by the election of a constitutional president , and a period of rehabilitation is entered upon but the recovery is necessarily slow from the exhaustion caused by the late war and civil disturbances . A convention to adjust by arbitration claims of our citizens has been proposed and is under consideration . The naval officer who bore to Siberia the testimonials bestowed by Congress in recognition of the aid given to the Jeannette survivors has successfully accomplished his mission . His interesting report will be submitted . It is pleasant to know that this mark of appreciation has been welcomed by the Russian Government and people as befits the traditional friendship of the two countries . Civil perturbations in the Samoan Islands have during the past few years been a source of considerable embarrassment to the three Governments Germany , Great Britain , and the United States whose relations and extraterritorial rights in that important group are guaranteed by treaties . The weakness of the native administration and the conflict of opposing interests in the islands have led King Malietoa to seek alliance or protection in some one quarter , regardless of the distinct engagements whereby no one of the three treaty powers may acquire any paramount or exclusive interest . In May last Malietoa offered to place Samoa under the protection of the United States , and the late consul , without authority , assumed to grant it . The proceeding was promptly disavowed and the overzealous official recalled . Special agents of the three Governments have been deputed to examine the situation in the islands . With a change in the representation of all three powers and a harmonious understanding between them , the peace , prosperity , autonomous administration , and neutrality of Samoa can hardly fail to be secured . It appearing that the Government of Spain did not extend to the flag of the United States in the Antilles the full measure of reciprocity requisite under our statute for the continuance of the suspension of discriminations against the Spanish flag in our ports , I was constrained in October last to rescind my predecessor s proclamation of February 14 , 1884 , permitting such suspension . An arrangement was , however , speedily reached , and upon notification from the Government of Spain that all differential treatment of our vessels and their cargoes , from the United States or from any foreign country , had been completely and absolutely relinquished , I availed myself of the discretion conferred by law and issued on the 27th of October my proclamation declaring reciprocal suspension in the United States . It is most gratifying to bear testimony to the earnest spirit in which the Government of the Queen Regent has met our efforts to avert the initiation of commercial discriminations and reprisals , which are ever disastrous to the material interests and the political good will of the countries they may affect . The profitable development of the large commercial exchanges between the United States and the Spanish Antilles is naturally an object of solicitude . Lying close at our doors , and finding here their main markets of supply and demand , the welfare of Cuba and Puerto Rico and their production and trade are scarcely less important to us than to Spain . Their commercial and financial movements are so naturally a part of our system that no obstacle to fuller and freer intercourse should be permitted to exist . The standing instructions of our representatives at Madrid and Havana have for years been to leave no effort unessayed to further these ends , and at no time has the equal good desire of Spain been more hopefully manifested than now . The Government of Spain , by removing the consular tonnage fees on cargoes shipped to the Antilles and by reducing passport fees , has shown its recognition of the needs of less trammeled intercourse . An effort has been made during the past year to remove the hindrances to the proclamation of the treaty of naturalization with the Sublime Porte , signed in 1874 , which has remained inoperative owing to a disagreement of interpretation of the clauses relative to the effects of the return to and sojourn of a naturalized citizen in the land of origin . I trust soon to be able to announce a favorable settlement of the differences as to this interpretation . It has been highly satisfactory to note the improved treatment of American missionaries in Turkey , as has been attested by their acknowledgments to our late minister to that Government of his successful exertions in their behalf . The exchange of ratifications of the convention of December 5 , 1885 , with Venezuela , for the reopening of the awards of the Caracas Commission under the claims convention of 1866 , has not yet been effected , owing to the delay of the Executive of that Republic in ratifying the measure . I trust that this postponement will be brief but should it much longer continue , the delay may well be regarded as a rescission of the compact and a failure on the part of Venezuela to complete an arrangement so persistently sought by her during many years and assented to by this Government in a spirit of international fairness , although to the detriment of holders of bona fide awards of the impugned commission . I renew the recommendation of my last annual message that existing legislation concerning citizenship and naturalization be revised . We have treaties with many states providing for the renunciation of citizenship by naturalized aliens , but no statute is found to give effect to such engagements , nor any which provides a needed central bureau for the registration of naturalized citizens . Experience suggests that our statutes regulating extradition might be advantageously amended by a provision for the transit across our territory , now a convenient thoroughfare of travel from one foreign country to another , of fugitives surrendered by a foreign government to a third state . Such provisions are not unusual in the legislation of other countries , and tend to prevent the miscarriage of justice . It is also desirable , in order to remove present uncertainties , that authority should be conferred on the Secretary of State to issue a certificate , in case of an arrest for the purpose of extradition , to the officer before whom the proceeding is pending , showing that a requisition for the surrender of the person charged has been duly made . Such a certificate , if required to be received before the prisoner s examination , would prevent a long and expensive judicial inquiry into a charge which the foreign government might not desire to press . I also recommend that express provision be made for the immediate discharge from custody of persons committed for extradition where the President is of opinion that surrender should not be made . The drift of sentiment in civilized communities toward full recognition of the rights of property in the creations of the human intellect has brought about the adoption by many important nations of an international copyright convention , which was signed at Berne on the 18th of September , 1885 . Inasmuch as the Constitution gives to the Congress the power to promote the progress of science and useful arts by securing for limited times to authors and inventors the exclusive right to their respective writings and discoveries , this Government did not feel warranted in becoming a signatory pending the action of Congress upon measures of international copyright now before it but the right of adhesion to the Berne convention hereafter has been reserved . I trust the subject will receive at your hands the attention it deserves , and that the just claims of authors , so urgently pressed , will be duly heeded . Representations continue to be made to me of the injurious effect upon American artists studying abroad and having free access to the art collections of foreign countries of maintaining a discriminating duty against the introduction of the works of their brother artists of other countries , and I am induced to repeat my recommendation for the abolition of that tax . Pursuant to a provision of the diplomatic and consular appropriation act approved July 1 , 1886 , the estimates submitted by the Secretary of State for the maintenance of the consular service have been recast on the basis of salaries for all officers to whom such allowance is deemed advisable . Advantage has been taken of this to redistribute the salaries of the offices now appropriated for , in accordance with the work performed , the importance of the representative duties of the incumbent , and the cost of living at each post . The last consideration has been too often lost sight of in the allowances heretofore made . The compensation which may suffice for the decent maintenance of a worthy and capable officer in a position of onerous and representative trust at a post readily accessible , and where the necessaries of life are abundant and cheap , may prove an inadequate pittance in distant lands , where the better part of a year s pay is consumed in reaching the post of duty , and where the comforts of ordinary civilized existence can only be obtained with difficulty and at exorbitant cost . I trust that in considering the submitted schedules no mistaken theory of economy will perpetuate a system which in the past has virtually closed to deserving talent many offices where capacity and attainments of a high order are indispensable , and in not a few instances has brought discredit on our national character and entailed embarrassment and even suffering on those deputed to uphold our dignity and interests abroad . In connection with this subject I earnestly reiterate the practical necessity of supplying some mode of trustworthy inspection and report of the manner in which the consulates are conducted . In the absence of such reliable information efficiency can scarcely be rewarded or its opposite corrected . Increasing competition in trade has directed attention to the value of the consular reports printed by the Department of State , and the efforts of the Government to extend the practical usefulness of these reports have created a wider demand for them at home and a spirit of emulation abroad . Constituting a record at the changes occurring in trade and of the progress of the arts and invention in foreign countries , they are much sought for by all interested in the subjects which they embrace . The report of the Secretary of the Treasury exhibits in detail the condition of the public finances and of the several branches of the Government related to his Department . I especially direct the attention of the Congress to the recommendations contained in this and the last preceding report of the Secretary touching the simplification and amendment of the laws relating to the collection of our revenues , and in the interest of economy and justice to the Government I hope they may be adopted by appropriate legislation . The ordinary receipts of the Government for the fiscal year ended June 30 , 1886 , were 336 , 439 , 727 . 06 . Of this amount 192 , 905 , 023 . 41 was received from customs and 116 , 805 , 936 . 48 from internal revenue . The total receipts , as here stated , were 13 , 749 , 020 . 68 greater than for the previous year , but the increase from customs was 11 , 434 , 084 . 10 and from internal revenue 4 , 407 , 210 . 94 , making a gain in these items for the last year of 15 , 841 , 295 . 04 , a falling off in other resources reducing the total increase to the smaller amount mentioned . The expense at the different custom houses of collecting this increased customs revenue was less than the expense attending the collection of such revenue for the preceding year by 490 , 608 , and the increased receipts of internal revenue were collected at a cost to the Internal Revenue Bureau 155 , 944 . 99 less than the expense of such collection for the previous year . The total ordinary expenses of the Government for the fiscal year ended June 30 , 1886 , were 242 , 483 , 138 . 50 , being less by 17 , 788 , 797 than such expenditures for the year preceding , and leaving a surplus in the Treasury at the close of the last fiscal year of 93 , 956 , 588 . 56 , as against 63 , 463 , 771 . 27 at the close of the previous year , being an increase in such surplus of 30 , 492 , 817 . 29 . The expenditures are compared with those of the preceding fiscal year and classified as follows For the current year to end June 30 , 1887 , the ascertained receipts up to October 1 , 1886 , with such receipts estimated for the remainder of the year , amount to 356 , 000 , 000 . The expenditures ascertained and estimated for the same period are 266 , 000 , 000 , indicating an anticipated surplus at the close of the year of 90 , 000 , 000 . The total value of the exports from the United States to foreign countries during the fiscal year is stated and compared with the preceding year as follows The value of some of our leading exports during the last fiscal year , as compared with the value of the same for the year immediately preceding , is here given , and furnishes information both interesting and suggestive Our imports during the last fiscal year , as compared with the previous year , were as follows In my last annual message to the Congress attention was directed to the fact that the revenues of the Government exceeded its actual needs , and it was suggested that legislative action should be taken to relieve the people from the unnecessary burden of taxation thus made apparent . In view of the pressing importance of the subject I deem it my duty to again urge its consideration . The income of the Government , by its increased volume and through economies in its collection , is now more than ever in excess of public necessities . The application of the surplus to the payment of such portion of the public debt as is now at our option subject to extinguishment , if continued at the rate which has lately prevailed , would retire that class of indebtedness within less than one year from this date . Thus a continuation of our present revenue system would soon result in the receipt of an annual income much greater than necessary to meet Government expenses , with no indebtedness upon which it could be applied . We should then be confronted with a vast quantity of money , the circulating medium of the people , hoarded in the Treasury when it should be in their hands , or we should be drawn into wasteful public extravagance , with all the corrupting national demoralization which follows in its train . But it is not the simple existence of this surplus and its threatened attendant evils which furnish the strongest argument against our present scale of Federal taxation . Its worst phase is the exaction of such a surplus through a perversion of the relations between the people and their Government and a dangerous departure from the rules which limit the right of Federal taxation . Good government , and especially the government of which every American citizen boasts , has for its objects the protection of every person within its care in the greatest liberty consistent with the good order of society and his perfect security in the enjoyment of his earnings with the least possible diminution for public needs . When more of the people s substance is exacted through the form of taxation than is necessary to meet the just obligations of the Government and the expense of its economical administration , such exaction becomes ruthless extortion and a violation of the fundamental principles of a free government . The indirect manner in which these exactions are made has a tendency to conceal their true character and their extent . But we have arrived at a stage of superfluous revenue which has aroused the people to a realization of the fact that the amount raised professedly for the support of the Government is paid by them as absolutely if added to the price of the things which supply their daily wants as if it was paid at fixed periods into the hand of the tax gatherer . Those who toil for daily wages are beginning to understand that capital , though sometimes vaunting its importance and clamoring for the protection and favor of the Government , is dull and sluggish till , touched by the magical hand of labor , it springs into activity , furnishing an occasion for Federal taxation and gaining the value which enables it to bear its burden . And the laboring man is thoughtfully inquiring whether in these circumstances , and considering the tribute he constantly pays into the public Treasury as he supplies his daily wants , he receives his fair share of advantages . There is also a suspicion abroad that the surplus of our revenues indicates abnormal and exceptional business profits , which , under the system which produces such surplus , increase without corresponding benefit to the people at large the vast accumulations of a few among our citizens , whose fortunes , rivaling the wealth of the most favored in antidemocratic nations , are not the natural growth of a steady , plain , and industrious republic . Our farmers , too , and those engaged directly and indirectly in supplying the products of agriculture , see that day by day , and as often as the daily wants of their households recur , they are forced to pay excessive and needless taxation , while their products struggle in foreign markets with the competition of nations , which , by allowing a freer exchange of productions than we permit , enable their people to sell for prices which distress the American farmer . As every patriotic citizen rejoices in the constantly increasing pride of our people in American citizenship and in the glory of our national achievements and progress , a sentiment prevails that the leading strings useful to a nation in its infancy may well be to a great extent discarded in the present stage of American ingenuity , courage , and fearless self reliance and for the privilege of indulging this sentiment with true American enthusiasm our citizens are quite willing to forego an idle surplus in the public Treasury . And all the people know that the average rate of Federal taxation upon imports is to day , in time of peace , but little less , while upon some articles of necessary consumption it is actually more , than was imposed by the grievous burden willingly borne at a time when the Government needed millions to maintain by war the safety and integrity of the Union . It has been the policy of the Government to collect the principal part of its revenues by a tax upon imports , and no change in this policy is desirable . But the present condition of affairs constrains our people to demand that by a revision of our revenue laws the receipts of the Government shall be reduced to the necessary expense of its economical administration and this demand should be recognized and obeyed by the people s representatives in the legislative branch of the Government . In readjusting the burdens of Federal taxation a sound public policy requires that such of our citizens as have built up large and important industries under present conditions should not be suddenly and to their injury deprived of advantages to which they have adapted their business but if the public good requires it they should be content with such consideration as shall deal fairly and cautiously with their interests , while the just demand of the people for relief from needless taxation is honestly answered . A reasonable and timely submission to such a demand should certainly be possible without disastrous shock to any interest and a cheerful concession sometimes averts abrupt and heedless action , often the outgrowth of impatience and delayed justice . Due regard should be also accorded in any proposed readjustment to the interests of American labor so far as they are involved . We congratulate ourselves that there is among us no laboring class fixed within unyielding bounds and doomed under all conditions to the inexorable fate of daily toil . We recognize in labor a chief factor in the wealth of the Republic , and we treat those who have it in their keeping as citizens entitled to the most careful regard and thoughtful attention . This regard and attention should be awarded them , not only because labor is the capital of our workingmen , justly entitled to its share of Government favor , but for the further and not less important reason that the laboring man , surrounded by his family in his humble home , as a consumer is vitally interested in all that cheapens the cost of living and enables him to bring within his domestic circle additional comforts and advantages . This relation of the workingman to the revenue laws of the country and the manner in which it palpably influences the question of wages should not be forgotten in the justifiable prominence given to the proper maintenance of the supply and protection of well paid labor . And these considerations suggest such an arrangement of Government revenues as shall reduce the expense of living , while it does not curtail the opportunity for work nor reduce the compensation of American labor and injuriously affect its condition and the dignified place it holds in the estimation of our people . But our farmers and agriculturists those who from the soil produce the things consumed by all are perhaps more directly and plainly concerned than any other of our citizens in a just and careful system of Federal taxation . Those actually engaged in and more remotely connected with this kind of work number nearly one half of our population . None labor harder or more continuously than they . No enactments limit their hours of toil and no interposition of the Government enhances to any great extent the value of their products . And yet for many of the necessaries and comforts of life , which the most scrupulous economy enables them to bring into their homes , and for their implements of husbandry , they are obliged to pay a price largely increased by an unnatural profit , which by the action of the Government is given to the more favored manufacturer . I recommend that , keeping in view all these considerations , the increasing and unnecessary surplus of national income annually accumulating be released to the people by an amendment to our revenue laws which shall cheapen the price of the necessaries of life and give freer entrance to such imported materials as by American labor may be manufactured into marketable commodities . Nothing can be accomplished , however , in the direction of this much needed reform unless the subject is approached in a patriotic spirit of devotion to the interests of the entire country and with a willingness to yield something for the public good . The sum paid upon the public debt during the fiscal year ended June 30 , 1886 , was 44 , 551 , 043 . 36 . During the twelve months ended October 31 , 1886 , 3 per cent bonds were called for redemption amounting to 127 , 283 , 100 , of which 80 , 643 , 200 was so called to answer the requirements of the law relating to the sinking fund and 46 , 639 , 900 for the purpose of reducing the public debt by application of a part of the surplus in the Treasury to that object . Of the bonds thus called 102 , 269 , 450 became subject under such calls to redemption prior to November 1 , 1886 . The remainder , amounting to 25 , 013 , 650 , matured under the calls after that date . In addition to the amount subject to payment and cancellation prior to November 1 , there were also paid before that day certain of these bonds , with the interest thereon , amounting to 5 , 072 , 350 , which were anticipated as to their maturity , of which 2 , 664 , 850 had not been called , Thus 107 , 341 , 800 had been actually applied prior to the 1st of November , 1886 , to the extinguishment of our bonded and interest bearing debt , leaving on that day still outstanding the sum of 1 , 153 , 443 , 112 . Of this amount 86 , 848 , 700 were still represented by 3 per cent bonds . They however , have been since November 1 , or will at once be , further reduced by 22 , 606 , 150 , being bonds which have been called , as already stated , but not redeemed and canceled before the latter date . During the fiscal year ended June 30 , 1886 , there were coined , under the compulsory silver coinage act of 1878 , 29 , 838 , 905 silver dollars , and the cost of the silver used in such coinage was 23 , 448 , 960 . 01 . There had been coined up to the close of the previous fiscal year under the provisions of the law 203 , 882 , 554 silver dollars , and on the 1st day of December , 1886 , the total amount of such coinage was 247 , 131 , 549 . The Director of the Mint reports that at the time of the passage of the law of 1878 directing this coinage the intrinsic value of the dollars thus coined was 94 1 4 cents each , and that on the 31st day of July , 1886 , the price of silver reached the lowest stage ever known , so that the intrinsic or bullion price of our standard silver dollar at that date was less than 72 cents . The price of silver on the 30th day of November last was such as to make these dollars intrinsically worth 78 cents each . These differences in value of the coins represent the fluctuations in the price of silver , and they certainly do not indicate that compulsory coinage by the Government enhances the price of that commodity or secures uniformity in its value . Every fair and legal effort has been made by the Treasury Department to distribute this currency among the people . The withdrawal of United States Treasury notes of small denominations and the issuing of small silver certificates have been resorted to in the endeavor to accomplish this result , in obedience to the will and sentiments of the representatives of the people in the Congress . On the 27th day of November , 1886 , the people held of these coins , or certificates representing them , the nominal sum of 166 , 873 , 041 , and we still had 79 , 464 , 345 in the Treasury as against about 142 , 894 , 055 so in the hands of the people and 72 , 865 , 376 remaining in the Treasury one year ago . The Director of the Mint again urges the necessity of more vault room for the purpose of storing these silver dollars which are not needed for circulation by the people . I have seen no reason to change the views expressed in my last annual message on the subject of this compulsory coinage , and I again urge its suspension on all the grounds contained in my former recommendation , reenforced by the significant increase of our gold exportations during the last year , as appears by the comparative statement herewith presented , and for the further reasons that the more this currency is distributed among the people the greater becomes our duty to protect it from disaster , that we now have abundance for all our needs , and that there seems but little propriety in building vaults to store such currency when the only pretense for its coinage is the necessity of its use by the people as a circulating medium . The great number of suits now pending in the United States courts for the southern district of New York growing out of the collection of customs revenue at the port of New York and the number of such suits that are almost daily instituted are certainly worthy the attention of the Congress . These legal controversies , based upon conflicting views by importers and the collector as to the interpretation of our present complex and indefinite revenue laws , might be largely obviated by an amendment of those laws . But pending such amendment the present condition of this litigation should be relieved . There are now pending about 2 , 500 of these suits . More than 1 , 100 have been commenced within the past eighteen months , and many of the others have been at issue for more than twenty five years . These delays subject the Government to loss of evidence and prevent the preparation necessary to defeat unjust and fictitious claims , while constantly accruing interest threatens to double the demands involved . In the present condition of the dockets of the courts , well filled with private suits , and of the force allowed the district attorney , no greater than is necessary for the ordinary and current business of his office , these revenue litigations can not be considered . In default of the adoption by the Congress of a plan for the general reorganization of the Federal courts , as has been heretofore recommended , I urge the propriety of passing a law permitting the appointment of an additional Federal judge in the district where these Government suits have accumulated , so that by continuous sessions of the courts devoted to the trial of these cases they may be determined . It is entirely plain that a great saving to the Government would be accomplished by such a remedy , and the suitors who have honest claims would not be denied justice through delay . The report of the Secretary of War gives a detailed account of the administration of his Department and contains sundry recommendations for the improvement of the service , which I fully approve . The Army consisted at the date of the last consolidated return of 2 , 103 officers and 24 , 946 enlisted men . The expenses of the Department for the last fiscal year were 36 , 990 , 903 . 38 , including 6 , 294 , 305 . 43 for public works and river and harbor improvements . I especially direct the attention of the Congress to the recommendation that officers be required to submit to an examination as a preliminary to their promotion . I see no objection , but many advantages , in adopting this feature , which has operated so beneficially in our Navy Department , as well as in some branches of the Army . The subject of coast defenses and fortifications has been fully and carefully treated by the Board on Fortifications , whose report was submitted at the last session of Congress but no construction work of the kind recommended by the board has been possible during the last year from the lack of appropriations for such purpose . The defenseless condition of our seacoast and lake frontier is perfectly palpable . The examinations made must convince us all that certain of our cities named in the report of the board should be fortified and that work on the most important of these fortifications should be commenced at once . The work has been thoroughly considered and laid out , the Secretary of War reports , but all is delayed in default of Congressional action . The absolute necessity , judged by all standards of prudence and foresight , of our preparation for an effectual resistance against the armored ships and steel guns and mortars of modern construction which may threaten the cities on our coasts is so apparent that I hope effective steps will be taken in that direction immediately . The valuable and suggestive treatment of this question by the Secretary of War is earnestly commended to the consideration of the Congress . In September and October last the hostile Apaches who , under the leadership of Geronimo , had for eighteen months been on the war path , and during that time had committed many murders and been the cause of constant terror to the settlers of Arizona , surrendered to General Miles , the military commander who succeeded General Crook in the management and direction of their pursuit . Under the terms of their surrender as then reported , and in view of the understanding which these murderous savages seemed to entertain of the assurances given them , it was considered best to imprison them in such manner as to prevent their ever engaging in such outrages again , instead of trying them for murder . Fort Pickens having been selected as a safe place of confinement , all the adult males were sent thither and will be closely guarded as prisoners . In the meantime the residue of the band , who , though still remaining upon the reservation , were regarded as unsafe and suspected of furnishing aid to those on the war path , had been removed to Fort Marion . The women and larger children of the hostiles were also taken there , and arrangements have been made for putting the children of proper age in Indian schools . The report of the Secretary of the Navy contains a detailed exhibit of the condition of his Department , with such a statement of the action needed to improve the same as should challenge the earnest attention of the Congress . The present Navy of the United States , aside from the ships in course of construction , consists of First . Fourteen single turreted monitors , none of which are in commission nor at the present time serviceable . The batteries of these ships are obsolete , and they can only be relied upon as auxiliary ships in harbor defense , and then after such an expenditure upon them as might not be deemed justifiable . Second . Five fourth rate vessels of small tonnage , only one of which was designed as a war vessel , and all of which are auxiliary merely . Third . Twenty seven cruising ships , three of which are built of iron , of small tonnage , and twenty four of wood . Of these wooden vessels it is estimated by the Chief Constructor of the Navy that only three will be serviceable beyond a period of six years , at which time it may be said that of the present naval force nothing worthy the name will remain . All the vessels heretofore authorized are under contract or in course of construction except the armored ships , the torpedo and dynamite boats , and one cruiser . As to the last of these , the bids were in excess of the limit fixed by Congress . The production in the United States of armor and gun steel is a question which it seems necessary to settle at an early day if the armored war vessels are to be completed with those materials of home manufacture . This has been the subject of investigation by two boards and by two special committees of Congress within the last three years . The report of the Gun Foundry Board in 1884 , of the Board on Fortifications made in January last , and the reports of the select committees of the two Houses made at the last session of Congress have entirely exhausted the subject , so far as preliminary investigation is involved , and in their recommendations they are substantially agreed . In the event that the present invitation of the Department for bids to furnish such of this material as is now authorized shall fail to induce domestic manufacturers to undertake the large expenditures required to prepare for this new manufacture , and no other steps are taken by Congress at its coming session , the Secretary contemplates with dissatisfaction the necessity of obtaining abroad the armor and the gun steel for the authorized ships . It would seem desirable that the wants of the Army and the Navy in this regard should be reasonably met , and that by uniting their contracts such inducement might be offered as would result in securing the domestication of these important interests . The affairs of the postal service show marked and gratifying improvement during the past year . A particular account of its transactions and condition is given in the report of the Postmaster General , which will be laid before you . The reduction of the rate of letter postage in 1883 , rendering the postal revenues inadequate to sustain the expenditures , and business depression also contributing , resulted in an excess of cost for the fiscal year ended June 30 , 1885 , of eight and one third millions of dollars . An additional check upon receipts by doubling the measure of weight in rating sealed correspondence and diminishing one half the charge for newspaper carriage was imposed by legislation which took effect with the beginning of the past fiscal year , while the constant demand of our territorial development and growing population for the extension and increase of mail facilities and machinery necessitates steady annual advance in outlay , and the careful estimate of a year ago upon the rates of expenditure then existing contemplated the unavoidable augmentation of the deficiency in the last fiscal year by nearly 2 , 000 , 000 . The anticipated revenue for the last year failed of realization by about 64 , 000 , but proper measures of economy have so satisfactorily limited the growth of expenditure that the total deficiency in fact fell below that of 1885 , and at this time the increase of revenue is in a gaining ratio over the increase of cost , demonstrating the sufficiency of the present rates of postage ultimately to sustain the service . This is the more pleasing because our people enjoy now both cheaper postage proportionably to distances and a vaster and more costly service than any other upon the globe . Retrenchment has been effected in the cost of supplies , some expenditures unwarranted by law have ceased , and the outlays for mail carriage have been subjected to beneficial scrutiny . At the close of the last fiscal year the expense of transportation on star routes stood at an annual rate of cost less by over 560 , 000 than at the close of the previous year and steamboat and mail messenger service at nearly 200 , 000 less . The service has been in the meantime enlarged and extended by the establishment of new offices , increase of routes of carriage , expansion of carrier delivery conveniences , and additions to the railway mail facilities , in accordance with the growing exigencies of the country and the long established policy of the Government . The Postmaster General calls attention to the existing law for compensating railroads and expresses the opinion that a method may be devised which will prove more just to the carriers and beneficial to the Government and the subject appears worthy of your early consideration . The differences which arose during the year with certain of the ocean steamship companies have terminated by the acquiescence of all in the policy of the Government approved by the Congress in the postal appropriation at its last session , and the Department now enjoys the utmost service afforded by all vessels which sail from our ports upon either ocean a service generally adequate to the needs of our intercourse . Petitions have , however , been presented to the Department by numerous merchants and manufacturers for the establishment of a direct service to the Argentine Republic and for semimonthly dispatches to the Empire of Brazil , and the subject is commended to your consideration . It is an obvious duty to provide the means of postal communication which our commerce requires , and with prudent forecast of results the wise extension of it may lead to stimulating intercourse and become the harbinger of a profitable traffic which will open new avenues for the disposition of the products of our industry . The circumstances of the countries at the far south of our continent are such as to invite our enterprise and afford the promise of sufficient advantages to justify an unusual effort to bring about the closer relations which greater freedom of communication would tend to establish . I suggest that , as distinguished from a grant or subsidy for the mere benefit of any line of trade or travel , whatever outlay may be required to secure additional postal service , necessary and proper and not otherwise attainable , should be regarded as within the limit of legitimate compensation for such service . The extension of the free delivery service as suggested by the Postmaster General has heretofore received my sanction , and it is to be hoped a suitable enactment may soon be agreed upon . The request for an appropriation sufficient to enable the general inspection of fourth class offices has my approbation . I renew my approval of the recommendation of the Postmaster General that another assistant be provided for the Post Office Department , and I invite your attention to the several other recommendations in his report . The conduct of the Department of Justice for the last fiscal year is fully detailed in the report of the Attorney General , and I invite the earnest attention of the Congress to the same and due consideration of the recommendations therein contained . In the report submitted by this officer to the last session of the Congress he strongly recommended the erection of a penitentiary for the confinement of prisoners convicted and sentenced in the United States courts , and he repeats the recommendation in his report for the last year . This is a matter of very great importance and should at once receive Congressional action . United States prisoners are now confined in more than thirty different State prisons and penitentiaries scattered in every part of the country . They are subjected to nearly as many different modes of treatment and discipline and are far too much removed from the control and regulation of the Government . So far as they are entitled to humane treatment and an opportunity for improvement and reformation , the Government is responsible to them and society that these things are forthcoming . But this duty can scarcely be discharged without more absolute control and direction than is possible under the present system . Many of our good citizens have interested themselves , with the most beneficial results , in the question of prison reform . The General Government should be in a situation , since there must be United States prisoners , to furnish important aid in this movement , and should be able to illustrate what may be practically done in the direction of this reform and to present an example in the treatment and improvement of its prisoners worthy of imitation . With prisons under its own control the Government could deal with the somewhat vexed question of convict labor , so far as its convicts were concerned , according to a plan of its own adoption , and with due regard to the rights and interests of our laboring citizens , instead of sometimes aiding in the operation of a system which causes among them irritation and discontent . Upon consideration of this subject it might be thought wise to erect more than one of these institutions , located in such places as would best subserve the purposes of convenience and economy in transportation . The considerable cost of maintaining these convicts as at present , in State institutions , would be saved by the adoption of the plan proposed , and by employing them in the manufacture of such articles as were needed for use by the Government quite a large pecuniary benefit would be realized in partial return for our outlay . I again urge a change in the Federal judicial system to meet the wants of the people and obviate the delays necessarily attending the present condition of affairs in our courts . All are agreed that something should be done , and much favor is shown by those well able to advise to the plan suggested by the Attorney General at the last session of the Congress and recommended in my last annual message . This recommendation is here renewed , together with another made at the same time , touching a change in the manner of compensating district attorneys and marshals and the latter subject is commended to the Congress for its action in the interest of economy to the Government , and humanity , fairness , and justice to our people . The report of the Secretary of the Interior presents a comprehensive summary of the work of the various branches of the public service connected with his Department , and the suggestions and recommendations which it contains for the improvement of the service should receive your careful consideration . The exhibit made of the condition of our Indian population and the progress of the work for their enlightenment , notwithstanding the many embarrassments which hinder the better administration of this important branch of the service , is a gratifying and hopeful one . The funds appropriated for the Indian service for the fiscal year just passed , with the available income from Indian land and trust moneys , amounting in all to 7 , 850 , 775 . 12 , were ample for the service under the conditions and restrictions of laws regulating their expenditure . There remained a balance on hand on June 30 , 1886 , of 1 , 660 , 023 . 30 , of which 1 , 337 , 768 . 21 are permanent funds for fulfillment of treaties and other like purposes , and the remainder , 322 , 255 . 09 , is subject to be carried to the surplus fund as required by law . The estimates presented for appropriations for the ensuing fiscal year amount to 5 , 608 , 873 . 64 , or 442 , 386 . 20 less than those laid before the Congress last year . The present system of agencies , while absolutely necessary and well adapted for the management of our Indian affairs and for the ends in view when it was adopted , is in the present stage of Indian management inadequate , standing alone , for the accomplishment of an object which has become pressing in its importance the more rapid transition from tribal organizations to citizenship of such portions of the Indians as are capable of civilized life . When the existing system was adopted , the Indian race was outside of the limits of organized States and Territories and beyond the immediate reach and operation of civilization , and all efforts were mainly directed to the maintenance of friendly relations and the preservation of peace and quiet on the frontier . All this is now changed . There is no such thing as the Indian frontier . Civilization , with the busy hum of industry and the influences of Christianity , surrounds these people at every point . None of the tribes are outside of the bounds of organized government and society , except that the Territorial system has not been extended over that portion of the country known as the Indian Territory . As a race the Indians are no longer hostile , but may be considered as submissive to the control of the Government . Few of them only are troublesome . Except the fragments of several bands , all are now gathered upon reservations . It is no longer possible for them to subsist by the chase and the spontaneous productions of the earth . With an abundance of land , if furnished with the means and implements for profitable husbandry , their life of entire dependence upon Government rations from day to day is no longer defensible . Their inclination , long fostered by a defective system of control , is to cling to the habits and customs of their ancestors and struggle with persistence against the change of life which their altered circumstances press upon them . But barbarism and civilization can not live together . It is impossible that such incongruous conditions should coexist on the same soil . They are a portion of our people , are under the authority of our Government , and have a peculiar claim upon and are entitled to the fostering care and protection of the nation . The Government can not relieve itself of this responsibility until they are so far trained and civilized as to be able wholly to manage and care for themselves . The paths in which they should walk must be clearly marked out for them , and they must be led or guided until they are familiar with the way and competent to assume the duties and responsibilities of our citizenship . Progress in this great work will continue only at the present slow pace and at great expense unless the system and methods of management are improved to meet the changed conditions and urgent demands of the service . The agents , having general charge and supervision in many cases of more than 5 , 000 Indians , scattered over large reservations , and burdened with the details of accountability for funds and supplies , have time to look after the industrial training and improvement of a few Indians only . The many are neglected and remain idle and dependent , conditions not favorable for progress and civilization . The compensation allowed these agents and the conditions of the service are not calculated to secure for the work men who are fitted by ability and skill to properly plan and intelligently direct the methods best adapted to produce the most speedy results and permanent benefits . Hence the necessity for a supplemental agency or system directed to the end of promoting the general and more rapid transition of the tribes from habits and customs of barbarism to the ways of civilization . With an anxious desire to devise some plan of operation by which to secure the welfare of the Indians and to relieve the Treasury as far as possible from the support of an idle and dependent population , I recommended in my previous annual message the passage of a law authorizing the appointment of a commission as an instrumentality auxiliary to those already established for the care of the Indians . It was designed that this commission should be composed of six intelligent and capable persons three to be detailed from the Army having practical ideas upon the subject of the treatment of Indians and interested in their welfare , and that it should be charged , under the direction of the Secretary of the Interior , with the management of such matters of detail as can not with the present organization be properly and successfully conducted , and which present different phases , as the Indians themselves differ in their progress , needs , disposition , and capacity for improvement or immediate self support . By the aid of such a commission much unwise and useless expenditure of money , waste of materials , and unavailing efforts might be avoided and it is hoped that this or some measure which the wisdom of Congress may better devise to supply the deficiency of the present system may receive your consideration and the appropriate legislation be provided . The time is ripe for the work of such an agency . There is less opposition to the education and training of the Indian youth , as shown by the increased attendance upon the schools , and there is a yielding tendency for the individual holding of lands . Development and advancement in these directions are essential , and should have every encouragement . As the rising generation are taught the language of civilization and trained in habits of industry they should assume the duties , privileges , and responsibilities of citizenship . No obstacle should hinder the location and settlement of any Indian willing to take land in severalty on the contrary , the inclination to do so should be stimulated at all times when proper and expedient . But there is no authority of law for making allotments on some of the reservations , and on others the allotments provided for are so small that the Indians , though ready and desiring to settle down , are not willing to accept such small areas when their reservations contain ample lands to afford them homesteads of sufficient size to meet their present and future needs . These inequalities of existing special laws and treaties should be corrected and some general legislation on the subject should be provided , so that the more progressive members of the different tribes may be settled upon homesteads , and by their example lead others to follow , breaking away from tribal customs and substituting therefor the love of home , the interest of the family , and the rule of the state . The Indian character and nature are such that they are not easily led while brooding over unadjusted wrongs . This is especially so regarding their lands . Matters arising from the construction and operation of railroads across some of the reservations , and claims of title and right of occupancy set up by white persons to some of the best land within other reservations require legislation for their final adjustment . The settlement of these matters will remove many embarrassments to progress in the work of leading the Indians to the adoption of our institutions and bringing them under the operation , the influence , and the protection of the universal laws of our country . The recommendations of the Secretary of the Interior and the Commissioner of the General Land Office looking to the better protection of public lands and of the public surveys , the preservation of national forests , the adjudication of grants to States and corporations and of private land claims , and the increased efficiency of the public land service are commended to the attention of Congress . To secure the widest distribution of public lands in limited quantities among settlers for residence and cultivation , and thus make the greatest number of individual homes , was the primary object of the public land legislation in the early days of the Republic . This system was a simple one . It commenced with an admirable scheme of public surveys , by which the humblest citizen could identify the tract upon which he wished to establish his home . The price of lands was placed within the reach of all the enterprising , industrious , and honest pioneer citizens of the country . It was soon , however , found that the object of the laws was perverted , under the system of cash sales , from a distribution of land among the people to an accumulation of land capital by wealthy and speculative persons . To check this tendency a preference right of purchase was given to settlers on the land , a plan which culminated in the general preemption act of 1841 . The foundation of this system was actual residence and cultivation . Twenty years later the homestead law was devised to more surely place actual homes in the possession of actual cultivators of the soil . The land was given without price , the sole conditions being residence , improvement , and cultivation . Other laws have followed , each designed to encourage the acquirement and use of land in limited individual quantities . But in later years these laws , through vicious administrative methods and under changed conditions of communication and transportation , have been so evaded and violated that their beneficent purpose is threatened with entire defeat . The methods of such evasions and violations are set forth in detail in the reports of the Secretary of the Interior and Commissioner of the General Land Office . The rapid appropriation of our public lands without bona fide settlements or cultivation , and not only without intention of residence , but for the purpose of their aggregation in large holdings , in many cases in the hands of foreigners , invites the serious and immediate attention of the Congress . The energies of the Land Department have been devoted during the present Administration to remedy defects and correct abuses in the public land service . The results of these efforts are so largely in the nature of reforms in the processes and methods of our land system as to prevent adequate estimate but it appears by a compilation from the reports of the Commissioner of the General Land Office that the immediate effect in leading cases which have come to a final termination has been the restoration to the mass of public lands of 2 , 750 , 000 acres that 2 , 370 , 000 acres are embraced in investigations now pending before the Department or the courts , and that the action of Congress has been asked to effect the restoration of 2 , 790 , 000 acres additional besides which 4 , 000 , 000 acres have been withheld from reservation and the rights of entry thereon maintained . I recommend the repeal of the preemption and timber culture acts , and that the homestead laws be so amended as to better secure compliance with their requirements of residence , improvement , and cultivation for the period of five years from date of entry , without commutation or provision for speculative relinquishment . I also recommend the repeal of the desert land laws unless it shall be the pleasure of the Congress to so amend these laws as to render them less liable to abuses . As the chief motive for an evasion of the laws and the principal cause of their result in land accumulation instead of land distribution is the facility with which transfers are made of the right intended to be secured to settlers , it may be deemed advisable to provide by legislation some guards and checks upon the alienation of homestead rights and lands covered thereby until patents issue . Last year an Executive proclamation was issued directing the removal of fences which inclosed the public domain . Many of these have been removed in obedience to such order , but much of the public land still remains within the lines of these unlawful fences . The ingenious methods resorted to in order to continue these trespasses and the hardihood of the pretenses by which in some cases such inclosures are justified are fully detailed in the report of the Secretary of the Interior . The removal of the fences still remaining which inclose public lands will be enforced with all the authority and means with which the executive branch of the Government is or shall be invested by the Congress for that purpose . The report of the Commissioner of Pensions contains a detailed and most satisfactory exhibit of the operations of the Pension Bureau during the last fiscal year . The amount of work done was the largest in any year since the organization of the Bureau , and it has been done at less cost than during the previous year in every division . On the 30th day of June , 1886 , there were 365 , 783 pensioners on the rolls of the Bureau . Since 1861 there have been 1 , 018 , 735 applications for pensions filed , of which 78 , 834 were based upon service in the War of 1812 . There were 621 , 754 of these applications allowed , including 60 , 178 to the soldiers of 1812 and their widows . The total amount paid for pensions since 1861 is 808 , 624 , 811 . 57 . The number of new pensions allowed during the year ended June 30 , 1886 , is 40 , 857 , a larger number than has been allowed in any year save one since 1861 . The names of 2 , 229 pensioners which had been previously dropped from the rolls were restored during the year , and after deducting those dropped within the same time for various causes a net increase remains for the year of 20 , 658 names . From January 1 , 1861 , to December 1 , 1885 , 1 , 967 private pension acts had been passed . Since the last mentioned date , and during the last session of the Congress , 644 such acts became laws . It seems to me that no one can examine our pension establishment and its operations without being convinced that through its instrumentality justice can be very nearly done to all who are entitled under present laws to the pension bounty of the Government . But it is undeniable that cases exist , well entitled to relief , in which the Pension Bureau is powerless to aid . The really worthy cases of this class are such as only lack by misfortune the kind or quantity of proof which the law and regulations of the Bureau require , or which , though their merit is apparent , for some other reason can not be justly dealt with through general laws . These conditions fully justify application to the Congress and special enactments . But resort to the Congress for a special pension act to overrule the deliberate and careful determination of the Pension Bureau on the merits or to secure favorable action when it could not be expected under the most liberal execution of general laws , it must be admitted opens the door to the allowance of questionable claims and presents to the legislative and executive branches of the Government applications concededly not within the law and plainly devoid of merit , but so surrounded by sentiment and patriotic feeling that they are hard to resist . I suppose it will not be denied that many claims for pension are made without merit and that many have been allowed upon fraudulent representations . This has been declared from the Pension Bureau , not only in this but in prior Administrations . The usefulness and the justice of any system for the distribution of pensions depend upon the equality and uniformity of its operation . It will be seen from the report of the Commissioner that there are now paid by the Government 131 different rates of pension . He estimates from the best information he can obtain that 9 , 000 of those who have served in the Army and Navy of the United States are now supported , in whole or in part , from public funds or by organized charities , exclusive of those in soldiers homes under the direction and control of the Government . Only 13 per cent of these are pensioners , while of the entire number of men furnished for the late war something like 20 per cent , including their widows and relatives , have been or now are in receipt of pensions . The American people , with a patriotic and grateful regard for our ex soldiers , too broad and too sacred to be monopolized by any special advocates , are not only willing but anxious that equal and exact justice should be done to all honest claimants for pensions . In their sight the friendless and destitute soldier , dependent on public charity , if otherwise entitled , has precisely the same right to share in the provision made for those who fought their country s battles as those better able , through friends and influence , to push their claims . Every pension that is granted under our present plan upon any other grounds than actual service and injury or disease incurred in such service , and every instance of the many in which pensions are increased on other grounds than the merits of the claim , work an injustice to the brave and crippled , but poor and friendless , soldier , who is entirely neglected or who must be content with the smallest sum allowed under general laws . There are far too many neighborhoods in which are found glaring cases of inequality of treatment in the matter of pensions , and they are largely due to a yielding in the Pension Bureau to importunity on the part of those , other than the pensioner , who are especially interested , or they arise from special acts passed for the benefit of individuals . The men who fought side by side should stand side by side when they participate in a grateful nation s kind remembrance . Every consideration of fairness and justice to our ex soldiers and the protection of the patriotic instinct of our citizens from perversion and violation point to the adoption of a pension system broad and comprehensive enough to cover every contingency , and which shall make unnecessary an objectionable volume of special legislation . As long as we adhere to the principle of granting pensions for service , and disability as the result of the service , the allowance of pensions should be restricted to cases presenting these features . Every patriotic heart responds to a tender consideration for those who , having served their country long and well , are reduced to destitution and dependence , not as an incident of their service , but with advancing age or through sickness or misfortune . We are all tempted by the contemplation of such a condition to supply relief , and are often impatient of the limitations of public duty . Yielding to no one in the desire to indulge this feeling of consideration , I can not rid myself of the conviction that if these ex soldiers are to be relieved they and their cause are entitled to the benefit of an enactment under which relief may be claimed as a right , and that such relief should be granted under the sanction of law , not in evasion of it nor should such worthy objects of care , all equally entitled , be remitted to the unequal operation of sympathy or the tender mercies of social and political influence , with their unjust discriminations . The discharged soldiers and sailors of the country are our fellow citizens , and interested with us in the passage and faithful execution of wholesome laws . They can not be swerved from their duty of citizenship by artful appeals to their spirit of brotherhood born of common peril and suffering , nor will they exact as a test of devotion to their welfare a willingness to neglect public duty in their behalf . On the 4th of March , 1885 , the current business of the Patent Office was , on an average , five and a half months in arrears , and in several divisions more than twelve months behind . At the close of the last fiscal year such current work was but three months in arrears , and it is asserted and believed that in the next few months the delay in obtaining an examination of an application for a patent will be but nominal . The number of applications for patents during the last fiscal year , including reissues , designs , trade marks , and labels , equals 40 , 678 , which is considerably in excess of the number received during any preceding year . The receipts of the Patent Office during the year aggregate 1 , 205 , 167 . 80 , enabling the office to turn into the Treasury a surplus revenue , over and above all expenditures , of about 163 , 710 . 30 . The number of patents granted during the last fiscal year , including reissues , trade marks , designs , and labels , was 25 , 619 , a number also quite largely in excess of that of any preceding year . The report of the Commissioner shows the office to be in a prosperous condition and constantly increasing in its business . No increase of force is asked for . The amount estimated for the fiscal year ending June 30 , 1886 , was 890 , 760 . The amount estimated for the year ending June 30 , 1887 , was 853 , 960 . The amount estimated for the fiscal year ending June 30 , 1888 , is 778 , 770 . The Secretary of the Interior suggests a change in the plan for the payment of the indebtedness of the Pacific subsidized roads to the Government . His suggestion has the unanimous indorsement of the persons selected by the Government to act as directors of these roads and protect the interests of the United States in the board of direction . In considering the plan proposed the sole matters which should be taken into account , in my opinion , are the situation of the Government as a creditor and the surest way to secure the payment of the principal and interest of its debt . By a recent decision of the Supreme Court of the United States it has been adjudged that the laws of the several States are inoperative to regulate rates of transportation upon railroads if such regulation interferes with the rate of carriage from one State into another . This important field of control and regulation having been thus left entirely unoccupied , the expediency of Federal action upon the subject is worthy of consideration . The relations of labor to capital and of laboring men to their employers are of the utmost concern to every patriotic citizen . When these are strained and distorted , unjustifiable claims are apt to be insisted upon by both interests , and in the controversy which results the welfare of all and the prosperity of the country are jeopardized . Any intervention of the General Government , within the limits of its constitutional authority , to avert such a condition should be willingly accorded . In a special message transmitted to the Congress at its last session I suggested the enlargement of our present Labor Bureau and adding to its present functions the power of arbitration in cases where differences arise between employer and employed . When these differences reach such a stage as to result in the interruption of commerce between the States , the application of this remedy by the General Government might be regarded as entirely within its constitutional powers . And I think we might reasonably hope that such arbitrators , if carefully selected and if entitled to the confidence of the parties to be affected , would be voluntarily called to the settlement of controversies of less extent and not necessarily within the domain of Federal regulation . I am of the opinion that this suggestion is worthy the attention of the Congress . But after all has been done by the passage of laws , either Federal or State , to relieve a situation full of solicitude , much more remains to be accomplished by the reinstatement and cultivation of a true American sentiment which recognizes the equality of American citizenship . This , in the light of our traditions and in loyalty to the spirit of our institutions , would teach that a hearty cooperation on the part of all interests is the surest path to national greatness and the happiness of all our people that capital should , in recognition of the brotherhood of our citizenship and in a spirit of American fairness , generously accord to labor its just compensation and consideration , and that contented labor is capital s best protection and faithful ally . It would teach , too , that the diverse situations of our people are inseparable from our civilization that every citizen should in his sphere be a contributor to the general good that capital does not necessarily tend to the oppression of labor , and that violent disturbances and disorders alienate from their promoters true American sympathy and kindly feeling . The Department of Agriculture , representing the oldest and largest of our national industries , is subserving well the purposes of its organization . By the introduction of new subjects of farming enterprise and by opening new sources of agricultural wealth and the dissemination of early information concerning production and prices it has contributed largely to the country s prosperity . Through this agency advanced thought and investigation touching the subjects it has in charge should , among other things , be practically applied to the home production at a low cost of articles of food which are now imported from abroad . Such an innovation will necessarily , of course , in the beginning be within the domain of intelligent experiment , and the subject in every stage should receive all possible encouragement from the Government . The interests of millions of our citizens engaged in agriculture are involved in an enlargement and improvement of the results of their labor , and a zealous regard for their welfare should be a willing tribute to those whose productive returns are a main source of our progress and power . The existence of pleuro pneumonia among the cattle of various States has led to burdensome and in some cases disastrous restrictions in an important branch of our commerce , threatening to affect the quantity and quality of our food supply . This is a matter of such importance and of such far reaching consequences that I hope it will engage the serious attention of the Congress , to the end that such a remedy may be applied as the limits of a constitutional delegation of power to the General Government will permit . I commend to the consideration of the Congress the report of the Commissioner and his suggestions concerning the interest intrusted to his care . The continued operation of the law relating to our civil service has added the most convincing proofs of its necessity and usefulness . It is a fact worthy of note that every public officer who has a just idea of his duty to the people testifies to the value of this reform . Its staunchest , friends are found among those who understand it best , and its warmest supporters are those who are restrained and protected by its requirements . The meaning of such restraint and protection is not appreciated by those who want places under the Government regardless of merit and efficiency , nor by those who insist that the selection of such places should rest upon a proper credential showing active partisan work . They mean to public officers , if not their lives , the only opportunity afforded them to attend to public business , and they mean to the good people of the country the better performance of the work of their Government . It is exceedingly strange that the scope and nature of this reform are so little understood and that so many things not included within its plan are called by its name . When cavil yields more fully to examination , the system will have large additions to the number of its friends . Our civil service reform may be imperfect in some of its details it may be misunderstood and opposed it may not always be faithfully applied its designs may sometimes miscarry through mistake or willful intent it may sometimes tremble under the assaults of its enemies or languish under the misguided zeal of impracticable friends but if the people of this country ever submit to the banishment of its underlying principle from the operation of their Government they will abandon the surest guaranty of the safety and success of American institutions . I invoke for this reform the cheerful and ungrudging support of the Congress . I renew my recommendation made last year that the salaries of the Commissioners be made equal to other officers of the Government having like duties and responsibilities , and I hope that such reasonable appropriations may be made as will enable them to increase the usefulness of the cause they have in charge . I desire to call the attention of the Congress to a plain duty which the Government owes to the depositors in the Freedman s Savings and Trust Company . This company was chartered by the Congress for the benefit of the most illiterate and humble of our people , and with the intention of encouraging in them industry and thrift . Most of its branches were presided over by officers holding the commissions and clothed in the uniform of the United States . These and other circumstances reasonably , I think , led these simple people to suppose that the invitation to deposit their hard earned savings in this institution implied an undertaking on the part of their Government that their money should be safely kept for them . When this company failed , it was liable in the sum of 2 , 939 , 925 . 22 to 61 , 131 depositors . Dividends amounting in the aggregate to 62 per cent have been declared , and the sum called for and paid of such dividends seems to be 1 , 648 , 181 . 72 . This sum deducted from the entire amount of deposits leaves 1 , 291 , 744 . 50 still unpaid . Past experience has shown that quite a large part of this sum will not be called for . There are assets still on hand amounting to the estimated sum of 16 , 000 . I think the remaining 38 per cent of such of these deposits as have claimants should be paid by the Government , upon principles of equity and fairness . The report of the commissioner , soon to be laid before Congress , will give more satisfactory details on this subject . The control of the affairs of the District of Columbia having been placed in the hands of purely executive officers , while the Congress still retains all legislative authority relating to its government , it becomes my duty to make known the most pressing needs of the District and recommend their consideration . The laws of the District appear to be in an uncertain and unsatisfactory condition , and their codification or revision is much needed . During the past year one of the bridges leading from the District to the State of Virginia became unfit for use , and travel upon it was forbidden . This leads me to suggest that the improvement of all the bridges crossing the Potomac and its branches from the city of Washington is worthy the attention of Congress . The Commissioners of the District represent that the laws regulating the sale of liquor and granting licenses therefor should be at once amended , and that legislation is needed to consolidate , define , and enlarge the scope and powers of charitable and penal institutions within the District . I suggest that the Commissioners be clothed with the power to make , within fixed limitations , police regulations . I believe this power granted and carefully guarded would tend to subserve the good order of the municipality . It seems that trouble still exists growing out of the occupation of the streets and avenues by certain railroads having their termini in the city . It is very important that such laws should be enacted upon this subject as will secure to the railroads all the facilities they require for the transaction of their business and at the same time protect citizens from injury to their persons or property . The Commissioners again complain that the accommodations afforded them for the necessary offices for District business and for the safe keeping of valuable books and papers are entirely insufficient . I recommend that this condition of affairs be remedied by the Congress , and that suitable quarters be furnished for the needs of the District government . In conclusion I earnestly invoke such wise action on the part of the people s legislators as will subserve the public good and demonstrate during the remaining days of the Congress as at present organized its ability and inclination to so meet the people s needs that it shall be gratefully remembered by an expectant constituency .<speech_sep>