Fellow Citizens of the Senate and of the House of Representatives The brief space which has elapsed since the close of your last session has been marked by no extraordinary political event . The quadrennial election of Chief Magistrate has passed off with less than the usual excitement . However individuals and parties may have been disappointed in the result , it is , nevertheless , a subject of national congratulation that the choice has been effected by the independent suffrages of a free people , undisturbed by those influences which in other countries have too often affected the purity of popular elections . Our grateful thanks are due to an all merciful Providence , not only for staying the pestilence which in different forms has desolated some of our cities , but for crowning the labors of the husbandman with an abundant harvest and the nation generally with the blessings of peace and prosperity . Within a few weeks the public mind has been deeply affected by the death of Daniel Webster , filling at his decease the office of Secretary of State . His associates in the executive government have sincerely sympathized with his family and the public generally on this mournful occasion . His commanding talents , his great political and professional eminence , his well tried patriotism , and his long and faithful services in the most important public trusts have caused his death to be lamented throughout the country and have earned for him a lasting place in our history . In the course of the last summer considerable anxiety was caused for a short time by an official intimation from the Government of Great Britain that orders had been given for the protection of the fisheries upon the coasts of the British provinces in North America against the alleged encroachments of the fishing vessels of the United States and France . The shortness of this notice and the season of the year seemed to make it a matter of urgent importance . It was at first apprehended that an increased naval force had been ordered to the fishing grounds to carry into effect the British interpretation of those provisions in the convention of 1818 in reference to the true intent of which the two Governments differ . It was soon discovered that such was not the design of Great Britain , and satisfactory explanations of the real objects of the measure have been given both here and in London . The unadjusted difference , however , between the two Governments as to the interpretation of the first article of the convention of 1818 is still a matter of importance . American fishing vessels , within nine or ten years , have been excluded from waters to which they had free access for twenty five years after the negotiation of the treaty . In 1845 this exclusion was relaxed so far as concerns the Bay of Fundy , but the just and liberal intention of the home Government , in compliance with what we think the true construction of the convention , to open all the other outer bays to our fishermen was abandoned in consequence of the opposition of the colonies . Notwithstanding this , the United States have , since the Bay of Fundy was reopened to our fishermen in 1845 , pursued the most liberal course toward the colonial fishing interests . By the revenue law of 1846 the duties on colonial fish entering our ports were very greatly reduced , and by the warehousing act it is allowed to be entered in bond without payment of duty . In this way colonial fish has acquired the monopoly of the export trade in our market and is entering to some extent into the home consumption . These facts were among those which increased the sensibility of our fishing interest at the movement in question . These circumstances and the incidents above alluded to have led me to think the moment favorable for a reconsideration of the entire subject of the fisheries on the coasts of the British Provinces , with a view to place them upon a more liberal footing of reciprocal privilege . A willingness to meet us in some arrangement of this kind is understood to exist on the part of Great Britain , with a desire on her part to include in one comprehensive settlement as well this subject as the commercial intercourse between the United States and the British Provinces . I have thought that , whatever arrangements may be made on these two subjects , it is expedient that they should be embraced in separate conventions . The illness and death of the late Secretary of State prevented the commencement of the contemplated negotiation . Pains have been taken to collect the information required for the details of such an arrangement . The subject is attended with considerable difficulty . If it is found practicable to come to an agreement mutually acceptable to the two parties , conventions may be concluded in the course of the present winter . The control of Congress over all the provisions of such an arrangement affecting the revenue will of course be reserved . The affairs of Cuba formed a prominent topic in my last annual message . They remain in an uneasy condition , and a feeling of alarm and irritation on the part of the Cuban authorities appears to exist . This feeling has interfered with the regular commercial intercourse between the United States and the island and led to some acts of which we have a fight to complain . But the Captain General of Cuba is clothed with no power to treat with foreign governments , nor is he in any degree under the control of the Spanish minister at Washington . Any communication which he may hold with an agent of a foreign power is informal and matter of courtesy . Anxious to put an end to the existing inconveniences which seemed to rest on a misconception , I directed the newly appointed minister to Mexico to visit Havana on his way to Vera Cruz . He was respectfully received by the Captain General , who conferred with him freely on the recent occurrences , but no permanent arrangement was effected . In the meantime the refusal of the Captain Generalto allow passengers and the mail to be landed in certain cases , for a reason which does not furnish , in the opinion of this Government , even a good presumptive ground for such prohibition , has been made the subject of a serious remonstrance at Madrid , and I have no reason to doubt that due respect will be paid by the Government of Her Catholic Majesty to the representations which our minister has been instructed to make on the subject . It is but justice to the Captain General to add that his conduct toward the steamers employed to carry the mails of the United States to Havana has , with the exceptions above alluded to , been marked with kindness and liberality , and indicates no general purpose of interfering with the commercial correspondence and intercourse between the island and this country . Early in the present year official notes were received from the ministers of France and England inviting the Government of the United States to become a party with Great Britain and France to a tripartite convention , in virtue of which the three powers should severally and collectively disclaim now and for the future all intention to obtain possession of the island of Cuba , and should bind themselves to discountenance all attempts to that effect on the part of any power or individual whatever . This invitation has been respectfully declined , for reasons which it would occupy too much space in this communication to state in detail , but which led me to think that the proposed measure would be of doubtful constitutionality , impolitic , and unavailing . I have , however , in common with several of my predecessors , directed the ministers of France and England to be assured that the United States entertain no designs against Cuba , but that , on the contrary , I should regard its incorporation into the Union at the present time as fraught with serious peril . Were this island comparatively destitute of inhabitants or occupied by a kindred race , I should regard it , if voluntarily ceded by Spain , as a most desirable acquisition . But under existing circumstances I should look upon its incorporation into our Union as a very hazardous measure . It would bring into the Confederacy a population of a different national stock , speaking a different language , and not likely to harmonize with the other members . It would probably affect in a prejudicial manner the industrial interests of the South , and it might revive those conflicts of opinion between the different sections of the country which lately shook the Union to its center , and which have been so happily compromised . The rejection by the Mexican Congress of the convention which had been concluded between that Republic and the United States for the protection of a transit way across the Isthmus of Tehuantepec and of the interests of those citizens of the United States who had become proprietors of the rights which Mexico had conferred on one of her own citizens in regard to that transit has thrown a serious obstacle in the way of the attainment of a very desirable national object . I am still willing to hope that the differences on the subject which exist , or may hereafter arise , between the Governments will be amicably adjusted . This subject , however , has already engaged the attention of the Senate of the United States , and requires no further comment in this communication . The settlement of the question respecting the port of San Juan de Nicaragua and of the controversy between the Republics of Costa Rica and Nicaragua in regard to their boundaries was considered indispensable to the commencement of the ship canal between the two oceans , which was the subject of the convention between the United States and Great Britain of the 19th of April , 1850 . Accordingly , a proposition for the same purposes , addressed to the two Governments in that quarter and to the Mosquito Indians , was agreed to in April last by the Secretary of State and the minister of Her Britannic Majesty . Besides the wish to aid in reconciling the differences of the two Republics , I engaged in the negotiation from a desire to place the great work of a ship canal between the two oceans under one jurisdiction and to establish the important port of San Juan de Nicaragua under the government of a civilized power . The proposition in question was assented to by Costs Rica and the Mosquito Indians . It has not proved equally acceptable to Nicaragua , but it is to be hoped that the further negotiations on the subject which are in train will be carried on in that spirit of conciliation and compromise which ought always to prevail on such occasions , and that they will lead to a satisfactory result . I have the satisfaction to inform you that the executive government of Venezuela has acknowledged some claims of citizens of the United States which have for many years past been urged by our charge d affaires at Caracas . It is hoped that the same sense of justice will actuate the Congress of that Republic in providing the means for their payment . The recent revolution in Buenos Ayres and the Confederated States having opened the prospect of an improved state of things in that quarter , the Governments of Great Britain and France determined to negotiate with the chief of the new confederacy for the free access of their commerce to the extensive countries watered by the tributaries of the La Plata and they gave a friendly notice of this purpose to the United States , that we might , if we thought proper , pursue the same course . In compliance with this invitation , our minister at Rio Janeiro and our charge d affaires at Buenos Ayres have been fully authorized to conclude treaties with the newly organized confederation or the States composing it . The delays which have taken place in the formation of the new government have as yet prevented the execution of those instructions , but there is every reason to hope that these vast countries will be eventually opened to our commerce . A treaty of commerce has been concluded between the United States and the Oriental Republic of Uruguay , which will be laid before the Senate . Should this convention go into operation , it will open to the commercial enterprise of our citizens a country of great extent and unsurpassed in natural resources , but from which foreign nations have hitherto been almost wholly excluded . The correspondence of the late Secretary of State with the Peruvian charge d affaires relative to the Lobos Islands was communicated to Congress toward the close of the last session . Since that time , on further investigation of the subject , the doubts which had been entertained of the title of Peru to those islands have been removed , and I have deemed it just that the temporary wrong which had been unintentionally done her from want of information should be repaired by an unreserved acknowledgment of her sovereignty . I have the satisfaction to inform you that the course pursued by Peru has been creditable to the liberality of her Government . Before it was known by her that her title would be acknowledged at Washington , her minister of foreign affairs had authorized our charge d affaires at Lima to announce to the American vessels which had gone to the Lobos for guano that the Peruvian Government was willing to freight them on its own account . This intention has been carried into effect by the Peruvian minister here by an arrangement which is believed to be advantageous to the parties in interest . Our settlements on the shores of the Pacific have already given a great extension , and in some respects a new direction , to our commerce in that ocean . A direct and rapidly increasing intercourse has sprung up with eastern Asia . The waters of the Northern Pacific , even into the Arctic Sea , have of late years been frequented by our whalemen . The application of steam to the general purposes of navigation is becoming daily more common , and makes it desirable to obtain fuel and other necessary supplies at convenient points on the route between Asia and our Pacific shores . Our unfortunate countrymen who from time to time suffer shipwreck on the coasts of the eastern seas are entitled to protection . Besides these specific objects , the general prosperity of our States on the Pacific requires that an attempt should be made to open the opposite regions of Asia to a mutually beneficial intercourse . It is obvious that this attempt could be made by no power to so great advantage as by the United States , whose constitutional system excludes every idea of distant colonial dependencies . I have accordingly been led to order an appropriate naval force to Japan , under the command of a discreet and intelligent officer of the highest rank known to our service . He is instructed to endeavor to obtain from the Government of that country some relaxation of the inhospitable and antisocial system which it has pursued for about two centuries . He has been directed particularly to remonstrate in the strongest language against the cruel treatment to which our shipwrecked mariners have often been subjected and to insist that they shall be treated with humanity . He is instructed , however , at the same time , to give that Government the amplest assurances that the objects of the United States are such , and such only , as I have indicated , and that the expedition is friendly and peaceful . Notwithstanding the jealousy with which the Governments of eastern Asia regard all overtures from foreigners , I am not without hopes of a beneficial result of the expedition . Should it be crowned with success , the advantages will not be confined to the United States , but , as in the case of China , will be equally enjoyed by all the other maritime powers . I have much satisfaction in stating that in all the steps preparatory to this expedition the Government of the United States has been materially aided by the good offices of the King of the Netherlands , the only European power having any commercial relations with Japan . In passing from this survey of our foreign relations , I invite the attention of Congress to the condition of that Department of the Government to which this branch of the public business is intrusted . Our intercourse with foreign powers has of late years greatly increased , both in consequence of our own growth and the introduction of many new states into the family of nations . In this way the Department of State has become overburdened . It has by the recent establishment of the Department of the Interior been relieved of some portion of the domestic business . If the residue of the business of that kind such as the distribution of Congressional documents , the keeping , publishing , and distribution of the laws of the United States , the execution of the copyright law , the subject of reprieves and pardons , and some other subjects relating to interior administration should be transferred from the Department of State , it would unquestionably be for the benefit of the public service . I would also suggest that the building appropriated to the State Department is not fireproof that there is reason to think there are defects in its construction , and that the archives of the Government in charge of the Department , with the precious collections of the manuscript papers of Washington , Jefferson , Hamilton , Madison , and Monroe , are exposed to destruction by fire . A similar remark may be made of the buildings appropriated to the War and Navy Departments . The condition of the Treasury is exhibited in the annual report from that Department . The cash receipts into the Treasury for the fiscal year ending the 30th June last , exclusive of trust funds , were 49 , 728 , 386 . 89 , and the expenditures for the same period , likewise exclusive of trust funds , were 46 , 007 , 896 . 20 , of which 9 , 455 , 815 . 83 was on account of the principal and interest of the public debt , including the last installment of the indemnity to Mexico under the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo , leaving a balance of 14 , 632 , 136 . 37 in the Treasury on the 1st day of July last . Since this latter period further purchases of the principal of the public debt have been made to the extent of 2 , 456 , 547 . 49 , and the surplus in the Treasury will continue to be applied to that object whenever the stock can be procured within the limits as to price authorized by law . The value of foreign merchandise imported during the last fiscal year was 207 , 240 , 101 , and the value of domestic productions exported was 149 , 861 , 911 , besides 17 , 204 , 026 of foreign merchandise exported , making the aggregate of the entire exports 167 , 065 , 937 . Exclusive of the above , there was exported 42 , 507 , 285 in specie , and imported from foreign ports 5 , 262 , 643 . In my first annual message to Congress I called your attention to what seemed to me some defects in the present tariff , and recommended such modifications as in my judgment were best adapted to remedy its evils and promote the prosperity of the country . Nothing has since occurred to change my views on this important question . Without repeating the arguments contained in my former message in favor of discriminating protective duties , I deem it my duty to call your attention to one or two other considerations affecting this subject . The first is the effect of large importations of foreign goods upon our currency . Most of the gold of California , as fast as it is coined , finds its way directly to Europe in payment for goods purchased . In the second place , as our manufacturing establishments are broken down by competition with foreigners , the capital invested in them is lost , thousands of honest and industrious citizens are thrown out of employment , and the farmer , to that extent , is deprived of a home market for the sale of his surplus produce . In the third place , the destruction of our manufactures leaves the foreigner without competition in our market , and he consequently raises the price of the article sent here for sale , as is now seen in the increased cost of iron imported from England . The prosperity and wealth of every nation must depend upon its productive industry . The farmer is stimulated to exertion by finding a ready market for his surplus products , and benefited by being able to exchange them without loss of time or expense of transportation for the manufactures which his comfort or convenience requires . This is always done to the best advantage where a portion of the community in which he lives is engaged in other pursuits . But most manufactures require an amount of capital and a practical skill which can not be commanded unless they be protected for a time from ruinous competition from abroad . Hence the necessity of laying those duties upon imported goods which the Constitution authorizes for revenue in such a manner as to protect and encourage the labor of our own citizens . Duties , however , should not be fixed at a rate so high as to exclude the foreign article , but should be so graduated as to enable the domestic manufacturer fairly to compete with the foreigner in our own markets , and by this competition to reduce the price of the manufactured article to the consumer to the lowest rate at which it can be produced . This policy would place the mechanic by the side of the farmer , create a mutual interchange of their respective commodities , and thus stimulate the industry of the whole country and render us independent of foreign nations for the supplies required by the habits or necessities of the people . Another question , wholly independent of protection , presents itself , and that is , whether the duties levied should be upon the value of the article at the place of shipment , or , where it is practicable , a specific duty , graduated according to quantity , as ascertained by weight or measure . All our duties are at present ad valorem . A certain percentage is levied on the price of the goods at the port of shipment in a foreign country . Most commercial nations have found it indispensable , for the purpose of preventing fraud and perjury , to make the duties specific whenever the article is of such a uniform value in weight or measure as to justify such a duty . Legislation should never encourage dishonesty or crime . It is impossible that the revenue officers at the port where the goods are entered and the duties paid should know with certainty what they cost in the foreign country . Yet the law requires that they should levy the duty according to such cost . They are therefore compelled to resort to very unsatisfactory evidence to ascertain what that cost was . They take the invoice of the importer , attested by his oath , as the best evidence of which the nature of the case admits . But everyone must see that the invoice may be fabricated and the oath by which it is supported false , by reason of which the dishonest importer pays a part only of the duties which are paid by the honest one , and thus indirectly receives from the Treasury of the United States a reward for his fraud and perjury . The reports of the Secretary of the Treasury heretofore made on this subject show conclusively that these frauds have been practiced to a great extent . The tendency is to destroy that high moral character for which our merchants have long been distinguished , to defraud the Government of its revenue , to break down the honest importer by a dishonest competition , and , finally , to transfer the business of importation to foreign and irresponsible agents , to the great detriment of our own citizens . I therefore again most earnestly recommend the adoption of specific duties wherever it is practicable , or a home valuation , to prevent these frauds . I would also again call your attention to the fact that the present tariff in some cases imposes a higher duty upon the raw material imported than upon the article manufactured from it , the consequence of which is that the duty operates to the encouragement of the foreigner and the discouragement of our own citizens . For full and detailed information in regard to the general condition of our Indian affairs , I respectfully refer you to the report of the Secretary of the Interior and the accompanying documents . The Senate not having thought proper to ratify the treaties which have been negotiated with the tribes of Indians in California and Oregon , our relations with them have been left in a very unsatisfactory condition . In other parts of our territory particular districts of country have been set apart for the exclusive occupation of the Indians , and their right to the lands within those limits has been acknowledged and respected . But in California and Oregon there has been no recognition by the Government of the exclusive right of the Indians to any part of the country . They are therefore mere tenants at sufferance , and liable to be driven from place to place at the pleasure of the whites . The treaties which have been rejected proposed to remedy this evil by allotting to the different tribes districts of country suitable to their habits of life and sufficient for their support . This provision , more than any other , it is believed , led to their rejection and as no substitute for it has been adopted by Congress , it has not been deemed advisable to attempt to enter into new treaties of a permanent character , although no effort has been spared by temporary arrangements to preserve friendly relations with them . If it be the desire of Congress to remove them from the country altogether , or to assign to them particular districts more remote from the settlements of the whites , it will be proper to set apart by law the territory which they are to occupy and to provide the means necessary for removing them to it . Justice alike to our own citizens and to the Indians requires the prompt action of Congress on this subject . The amendments proposed by the Senate to the treaties which were negotiated with the Sioux Indians of Minnesota have been submitted to the tribes who were parties to them , and have received their assent . A large tract of valuable territory has thus been opened for settlement and cultivation , and all danger of collision with these powerful and warlike bands has been happily removed . The removal of the remnant of the tribe of Seminole Indians from Florida has long been a cherished object of the Government , and it is one to which my attention has been steadily directed . Admonished by past experience of the difficulty and cost of the attempt to remove them by military force , resort has been had to conciliatory measures . By the invitation of the Commissioner of Indian Affairs , several of the principal chiefs recently visited Washington , and whilst here acknowledged in writing the obligation of their tribe to remove with the least possible delay . Late advices from the special agent of the Government represent that they adhere to their promise , and that a council of their people has been called to make their preliminary arrangements . A general emigration may therefore be confidently expected at an early day . The report from the General Land Office shows increased activity in its operations . The survey of the northern boundary of Iowa has been completed with unexampled dispatch . Within the last year 9 , 522 , 953 acres of public land have been surveyed and 8 , 032 , 463 acres brought into market . Acres In the last fiscal year there were sold 1 , 553 , 071 Located with bounty land warrants 3 , 201 , 314 Located with other certificates 115 , 682 Making a total of 4 , 870 , 067 In addition there were Reported under swamp land grants 5 , 219 , 188 For internal improvements , railroads , etc 3 , 025 , 920 Making an aggregate of 13 , 115 , 175 Being an increase of the amount sold and located under land warrants of 569 , 220 acres over the previous year . The whole amount thus sold , located under land warrants , reported under swamp land grants , and selected for internal improvements exceeds that of the previous year by 3 , 342 , 372 acres and the sales would without doubt have been much larger but for the extensive reservations for railroads in Missouri , Mississippi , and Alabama . Acres For the quarter ending 30th September , 1852 , there were sold 243 , 255 Located with bounty land warrants 1 , 387 , 116 Located with other certificates 15 , 649 Reported under swamp land grants 2 , 485 , 233 Making an aggregate for the quarter of 4 , 131 , 253 Much the larger portion of the labor of arranging and classifying the returns of the last census has been finished , and it will now devolve upon Congress to make the necessary provision for the publication of the results in such form as shall be deemed best . The apportionment of representation on the basis of the new census has been made by the Secretary of the Interior in conformity with the provisions of law relating to that subject , and the recent elections have been made in accordance with it . I commend to your favorable regard the suggestion contained in the report of the Secretary of the Interior that provision be made by law for the publication and distribution , periodically , of an analytical digest of all the patents which have been or may hereafter be granted for useful inventions and discoveries , with such descriptions and illustrations as may be necessary to present an intelligible view of their nature and operation . The cost of such publication could easily be defrayed out of the patent fund , and I am persuaded that it could be applied to no object more acceptable to inventors and beneficial to the public at large . An appropriation of 100 , 000 having been made at the last session for the purchase of a suitable site and for the erection , furnishing , and fitting up of an asylum for the insane of the District of Columbia and of the Army and Navy of the United States , the proper measures have been adopted to carry this beneficent purpose into effect . By the latest advices from the Mexican boundary commission it appears that the survey of the river Gila from its continence with the Colorado to its supposed intersection with the western line of New Mexico has been completed . The survey of the Rio Grande has also been finished from the point agreed on by the commissioners as the point where it strikes the southern boundary of New Mexico to a point 135 miles below Eagle Pass , which is about two thirds of the distance along the course of the river to its mouth . The appropriation which was made at the last session of Congress for the continuation of the survey is subject to the following proviso Provided , That no part of this appropriation shall be used or expended until it shall be made satisfactorily to appear to the President of the United States that the southern boundary of New Mexico is not established by the commissioner and surveyor of the United States farther north of the town called Paso than the same is laid down in Disturnell s map , which is added to the treaty . My attention was drawn to this subject by a report from the Department of the Interior , which reviewed all the facts of the case and submitted for my decision the question whether under existing circumstances any part of the appropriation could be lawfully used or expended for the further prosecution of the work . After a careful consideration of the subject I came to the conclusion that it could not , and so informed the head of that Department . Orders were immediately issued by him to the commissioner and surveyor to make no further requisitions on the Department , as they could not be paid , and to discontinue all operations on the southern line of New Mexico . But as the Department had no exact information as to the amount of provisions and money which remained unexpended in the hands of the commissioner and surveyor , it was left discretionary with them to continue the survey down the Rio Grande as far as the means at their disposal would enable them or at once to disband the commission . A special messenger has since arrived from the officer in charge of the survey on the river with information that the funds subject to his control were exhausted and that the officers and others employed in the service were destitute alike of the means of prosecuting the work and of returning to their homes . The object of the proviso was doubtless to arrest the survey of the southern and western lines of New Mexico , in regard to which different opinions have been expressed for it is hardly to be supposed that there could be any objection to that part of the line which extends along the channel of the Rio Grande . But the terms of the law are so broad as to forbid the use of any part of the money for the prosecution of the work , or even for the payment to the officers and agents of the arrearages of pay which are justly due to them . I earnestly invite your prompt attention to this subject , and recommend a modification of the terms of the proviso , so as to enable the Department to use as much of the appropriation as will be necessary to discharge the existing obligations of the Government and to complete the survey of the Rio Grande to its mouth . It will also be proper to make further provision by law for the fulfillment of our treaty with Mexico for running and marking the residue of the boundary line between the two countries . Permit me to invite your particular attention to the interests of the District of Columbia , which are confided by the Constitution to your peculiar care . Among the measures which seem to me of the greatest importance to its prosperity are the introduction of a copious supply of water into the city of Washington and the construction of suitable bridges across the Potomac to replace those which were destroyed by high water in the early part of the present year . At the last session of Congress an appropriation was made to defray the cost of the surveys necessary for determining the best means of affording an unfailing supply of good and wholesome water . Some progress has been made in the survey , and as soon as it is completed the result will be laid before you . Further appropriations will also be necessary for grading and paving the streets and avenues and inclosing and embellishing the public grounds within the city of Washington . I commend all these objects , together with the charitable institutions of the District , to your favorable regard . Every effort has been made to protect our frontier and that of the adjoining Mexican States from the incursions of the Indian tribes . Of about 11 , 000 men of which the Army is composed , nearly 8 , 000 are employed in the defense of the newly acquired territory including Texas and of emigrants proceeding thereto . I am gratified to say that these efforts have been unusually successful . With the exception of some partial outbreaks in California and Oregon and occasional depredations on a portion of the Rio Grande , owing , it is believed , to the disturbed state of that border region , the inroads of the Indians have been effectually restrained . Experience has shown , however , that whenever the two races are brought into contact collisions will inevitably occur . To prevent these collisions the United States have generally set apart portions of their territory for the exclusive occupation of the Indian tribes . A difficulty occurs , however , in the application of this policy to Texas . By the terms of the compact by which that State was admitted into the Union she retained the ownership of all the vacant lands within her limits . The government of that State , it is understood , has assigned no portion of her territory to the Indians , but as fast as her settlements advance lays it off into counties and proceeds to survey and sell it . This policy manifestly tends not only to alarm and irritate the Indians , but to compel them to resort to plunder for subsistence . It also deprives this Government of that influence and control over them without which no durable peace can ever exist between them and the whites . I trust , therefore , that a due regard for her own interests , apart from considerations of humanity and justice , will induce that State to assign a small portion of her vast domain for the provisional occupancy of the small remnants of tribes within her borders , subject , of course , to her ownership and eventual jurisdiction . If she should fail to do this , the fulfillment of our treaty stipulations with Mexico and our duty to the Indians themselves will , it is feared , become a subject of serious embarrassment to the Government . It is hoped , however , that a timely and just provision by Texas may avert this evil . No appropriations for fortifications were made at the two last sessions of Congress . The cause of this omission is probably to be found in a growing belief that the system of fortifications adopted in 1816 , and heretofore acted on , requires revision . The subject certainly deserves full and careful investigation , but it should not be delayed longer than can be avoided . In the meantime there are certain works which have been commenced , some of them nearly completed , designed to protect our principal seaports from Boston to New Orleans and a few other important points . In regard to the necessity for these works , it is believed that little difference of opinion exists among military men . I therefore recommend that the appropriations necessary to prosecute them be made . I invite your attention to the remarks on this subject and on others connected with his Department contained in the accompanying report of the Secretary of War . Measures have been taken to carry into effect the law of the last session making provision for the improvement of certain rivers and harbors , and it is believed that the arrangements made for that purpose will combine efficiency with economy . Owing chiefly to the advanced season when the act was passed , little has yet been done in regard to many of the works beyond making the necessary preparations . With respect to a few of the improvements , the sums already appropriated will suffice to complete them but most of them will require additional appropriations . I trust that these appropriations will be made , and that this wise and beneficent policy , so auspiciously resumed , will be continued . Great care should be taken , however , to commence no work which is not of sufficient importance to the commerce of the country to be viewed as national in its character . But works which have been commenced should not be discontinued until completed , as otherwise the sums expended will in most cases be lost . The report from the Navy Department will inform you of the prosperous condition of the branch of the public service committed to its charge . It presents to your consideration many topics and suggestions of which I ask your approval . It exhibits an unusual degree of activity in the operations of the Department during the past year . The preparations for the Japan expedition , to which I have already alluded the arrangements made for the exploration and survey of the China Seas , the Northern Pacific , and Behrings Straits the incipient measures taken toward a reconnoissance of the continent of Africa eastward of Liberia the preparation for an early examination of the tributaries of the river La Plata , which a recent decree of the provisional chief of the Argentine Confederation has opened to navigation all these enterprises and the means by which they are proposed to be accomplished have commanded my full approbation , and I have no doubt will be productive of most useful results . Two officers of the Navy were heretofore instructed to explore the whole extent of the Amazon River from the confines of Peru to its mouth . The return of one of them has placed in the possession of the Government an interesting and valuable account of the character and resources of a country abounding in the materials of commerce , and which if opened to the industry of the world will prove an inexhaustible fund of wealth . The report of this exploration will be communicated to you as soon as it is completed . Among other subjects offered to your notice by the Secretary of the Navy , I select for special commendation , in view of its connection with the interests of the Navy , the plan submitted by him for the establishment of a permanent corps of seamen and the suggestions he has presented for the reorganization of the Naval Academy . In reference to the first of these , I take occasion to say that I think it will greatly improve the efficiency of the service , and that I regard it as still more entitled to favor for the salutary influence it must exert upon the naval discipline , now greatly disturbed by the increasing spirit of insubordination resulting from our present system . The plan proposed for the organization of the seamen furnishes a judicious substitute for the law of September , 1850 , abolishing corporal punishment , and satisfactorily sustains the policy of that act under conditions well adapted to maintain the authority of command and the order and security of our ships . It is believed that any change which proposes permanently to dispense with this mode of punishment should be preceded by a system of enlistment which shall supply the Navy with seamen of the most meritorious class , whose good deportment and pride of character may preclude all occasion for a resort to penalties of a harsh or degrading nature . The safety of a ship and her crew is often dependent upon immediate obedience to a command , and the authority to enforce it must be equally ready . The arrest of a refractory seaman in such moments not only deprives the ship of indispensable aid , but imposes a necessity for double service on others , whose fidelity to their duties may be relied upon in such an emergency . The exposure to this increased and arduous labor since the passage of the act of 1850 has already had , to a most observable and injurious extent , the effect of preventing the enlistment of the best seamen in the Navy . The plan now suggested is designed to promote a condition of service in which this objection will no longer exist . The details of this plan may be established in great part , if not altogether , by the Executive under the authority of existing laws , but I have thought it proper , in accordance with the suggestion of the Secretary of the Navy , to submit it to your approval . The establishment of a corps of apprentices for the Navy , or boys to be enlisted until they become of age , and to be employed under such regulations as the Navy Department may devise , as proposed in the report , I cordially approve and commend to your consideration and I also concur in the suggestion that this system for the early training of seamen may be most usefully ingrafted upon the service of our merchant marine . The other proposition of the report to which I have referred the reorganization of the Naval Academy I recommend to your attention as a project worthy of your encouragement and support . The valuable services already rendered by this institution entitle it to the continuance of your fostering care . Your attention is respectfully called to the report of the Postmaster General for the detailed operation of his Department during the last fiscal year , from which it will be seen that the receipts from postages for that time were less by 1 , 431 , 696 than for the preceding fiscal year , being a decrease of about 23 per cent . This diminution is attributable to the reduction in the rates of postage made by the act of March 3 , 1851 , which reduction took effect at the commencement of the last fiscal year . Although in its operation during the last year the act referred to has not fulfilled the predictions of its friends by increasing the correspondence of the country in proportion to the reduction of postage , I should , nevertheless , question the policy of returning to higher rates . Experience warrants the expectation that as the community becomes accustomed to cheap postage correspondence will increase . It is believed that from this cause and from the rapid growth of the country in population and business the receipts of the Department must ultimately exceed its expenses , and that the country may safely rely upon the continuance of the present cheap rate of postage . In former messages I have , among other things , respectfully recommended to the consideration of Congress the propriety and necessity of further legislation for the protection and punishment of foreign consuls residing in the United States to revive , with certain modifications , the act of 10th March , 1838 , to restrain unlawful military expeditions against the inhabitants of conterminous states or territories for the preservation and protection from mutilation or theft of the papers , records , and archives of the nation for authorizing the surplus revenue to be applied to the payment of the public debt in advance of the time when it will become due for the establishment of land offices for the sale of the public lands in California and the Territory of Oregon for the construction of a road from the Mississippi Valley to the Pacific Ocean for the establishment of a bureau of agriculture for the promotion of that interest , perhaps the most important in the country for the prevention of frauds upon the Government in applications for pensions and bounty lands for the establishment of a uniform fee bill , prescribing a specific compensation for every service required of clerks , district attorneys , and marshals for authorizing an additional regiment of mounted men for the defense of our frontiers against the Indians and for fulfilling our treaty stipulations with Mexico to defend her citizens against the Indians with equal diligence and energy as our own for determining the relative rank between the naval and civil officers in our public ships and between the officers of the Army and Navy in the various grades of each for reorganizing the naval establishment by fixing the number of officers in each grade , and providing for a retired list upon reduced pay of those unfit for active duty for prescribing and regulating punishments in the Navy for the appointment of a commission to revise the public statutes of the United States by arranging them in order , supplying deficiencies , correcting incongruities , simplifying their language , and reporting them to Congress for its final action and for the establishment of a commission to adjudicate and settle private claims against the United States . I am not aware , however , that any of these subjects have been finally acted upon by Congress . Without repeating the reasons for legislation on these subjects which have been assigned in former messages , I respectfully recommend them again to your favorable consideration . I think it due to the several Executive Departments of this Government to bear testimony to the efficiency and integrity with which they are conducted . With all the careful superintendence which it is possible for the heads of those Departments to exercise , still the due administration and guardianship of the public money must very much depend on the vigilance , intelligence , and fidelity of the subordinate officers and clerks , and especially on those intrusted with the settlement and adjustment of claims and accounts . I am gratified to believe that they have generally performed their duties faithfully and well . They are appointed to guard the approaches to the public Treasury , and they occupy positions that expose them to all the temptations and seductions which the cupidity of peculators and fraudulent claimants can prompt them to employ . It will be but a wise precaution to protect the Government against that source of mischief and corruption , as far as it can be done , by the enactment of all proper legal penalties . The laws in this respect are supposed to be defective , and I therefore deem it my duty to call your attention to the subject and to recommend that provision be made by law for the punishment not only of those who shall accept bribes , but also of those who shall either promise , give , or offer to give to any of those officers or clerks a bribe or reward touching or relating to any matter of their official action or duty . It has been the uniform policy of this Government , from its foundation to the present day , to abstain from all interference in the domestic affairs of other nations . The consequence has been that while the nations of Europe have been engaged in desolating wars our country has pursued its peaceful course to unexampled prosperity and happiness . The wars in which we have been compelled to engage in defense of the rights and honor of the country have been , fortunately , of short duration . During the terrific contest of nation against nation which succeeded the French Revolution we were enabled by the wisdom and firmness of President Washington to maintain our neutrality . While other nations were drawn into this wide sweeping whirlpool , we sat quiet and unmoved upon our own shores . While the flower of their numerous armies was wasted by disease or perished by hundreds of thousands upon the battlefield , the youth of this favored land were permitted to enjoy the blessings of peace beneath the paternal roof . While the States of Europe incurred enormous debts , under the burden of which their subjects still groan , and which must absorb no small part of the product of the honest industry of those countries for generations to come , the United States have once been enabled to exhibit the proud spectacle of a nation free from public debt , and if permitted to pursue our prosperous way for a few years longer in peace we may do the same again . But it is now said by some that this policy must be changed . Europe is no longer separated from us by a voyage of months , but steam navigation has brought her within a few days sail of our shores . We see more of her movements and take a deeper interest in her controversies . Although no one proposes that we should join the fraternity of potentates who have for ages lavished the blood and treasure of their subjects in maintaining the balance of power , yet it is said that we ought to interfere between contending sovereigns and their subjects for the purpose of overthrowing the monarchies of Europe and establishing in their place republican institutions . It is alleged that we have heretofore pursued a different course from a sense of our weakness , but that now our conscious strength dictates a change of policy , and that it is consequently our duty to mingle in these contests and aid those who are struggling for liberty . This is a most seductive but dangerous appeal to the generous sympathies of freemen . Enjoying , as we do , the blessings of a free Government , there is no man who has an American heart that would not rejoice to see these blessings extended to all other nations . We can not witness the struggle between the oppressed and his oppressor anywhere without the deepest sympathy for the former and the most anxious desire for his triumph . Nevertheless , is it prudent or is it wise to involve ourselves in these foreign wars Is it indeed true that we have heretofore refrained from doing so merely from the degrading motive of a conscious weakness For the honor of the patriots who have gone before us , I can not admit it . Men of the Revolution , who drew the sword against the oppressions of the mother country and pledged to Heaven their lives , their fortunes , and their sacred honor to maintain their freedom , could never have been actuated by so unworthy a motive . They knew no weakness or fear where right or duty pointed the way , and it is a libel upon their fair fame for us , while we enjoy the blessings for which they so nobly fought and bled , to insinuate it . The truth is that the course which they pursued was dictated by a stern sense of international justice , by a statesmanlike prudence and a far seeing wisdom , looking not merely to the present necessities but to the permanent safety and interest of the country . They knew that the world is governed less by sympathy than by reason and force that it was not possible for this nation to become a propagandist of free principles without arraying against it the combined powers of Europe , and that the result was more likely to be the overthrow of republican liberty here than its establishment there . History has been written in vain for those who can doubt this . France had no sooner established a republican form of government than she manifested a desire to force its blessings on all the world . Her own historian informs us that , hearing of some petty acts of tyranny in a neighboring principality , the National Convention declared that she would afford succor and fraternity to all nations who wished to recover their liberty , and she gave it in charge to the executive power to give orders to the generals of the French armies to aid all citizens who might have been or should be oppressed in the cause of liberty . Here was the false step which led to her subsequent misfortunes . She soon found herself involved in war with all the rest of Europe . In less than ten years her Government was changed from a republic to an empire , and finally , after shedding rivers of blood , foreign powers restored her exiled dynasty and exhausted Europe sought peace and repose in the unquestioned ascendency of monarchical principles . Let us learn wisdom from her example . Let us remember that revolutions do not always establish freedom . Our own free institutions were not the offspring of our Revolution . They existed before . They were planted in the free charters of self government under which the English colonies grew up , and our Revolution only freed us from the dominion of a foreign power whose government was at variance with those institutions . But European nations have had no such training for self government , and every effort to establish it by bloody revolutions has been , and must without that preparation continue to be , a failure . Liberty unregulated by law degenerates into anarchy , which soon becomes the most horrid of all despotisms . Our policy is wisely to govern ourselves , and thereby to set such an example of national justice , prosperity , and true glory as shall teach to all nations the blessings of self government and the unparalleled enterprise and success of a free people . We live in an age of progress , and ours is emphatically a country of progress . Within the last half century the number of States in this Union has nearly doubled , the population has almost quadrupled , and our boundaries have been extended from the Mississippi to the Pacific . Our territory is checkered over with railroads and furrowed with canals . The inventive talent of our country is excited to the highest pitch , and the numerous applications for patents for valuable improvements distinguish this age and this people from all others . The genius of one American has enabled our commerce to move against wind and tide and that of another has annihilated distance in the transmission of intelligence . The whole country is full of enterprise . Our common schools are diffusing intelligence among the people and our industry is fast accumulating the comforts and luxuries of life . This is in part owing to our peculiar position , to our fertile soil and comparatively sparse population but much of it is also owing to the popular institutions under which we live , to the freedom which every man feels to engage in any useful pursuit according to his taste or inclination , and to the entire confidence that his person and property will be protected by the laws . But whatever may be the cause of this unparalleled growth in population , intelligence , and wealth , one tiring is clear that the Government must keep pace with the progress of the people . It must participate in their spirit of enterprise , and while it exacts obedience to the laws and restrains all unauthorized invasions of the rights of neighboring states , it should foster and protect home industry and lend its powerful strength to the improvement of such means of intercommunication as are necessary to promote our internal commerce and strengthen the ties which bind us together as a people . It is not strange , however much it may be regretted , that such an exuberance of enterprise should cause some individuals to mistake change for progress and the invasion of the rights of others for national prowess and glory . The former are constantly agitating for some change in the organic law , or urging new and untried theories of human rights . The latter are ever ready to engage in any wild crusade against a neighboring people , regardless of the justice of the enterprise and without looking at the fatal consequences to ourselves and to the cause of popular government . Such expeditions , however , are often stimulated by mercenary individuals , who expect to share the plunder or profit of the enterprise without exposing themselves to danger , and are led on by some irresponsible foreigner , who abuses the hospitality of our own Government by seducing the young and ignorant to join in his scheme of personal ambition or revenge under the false and delusive pretense of extending the area of freedom . These reprehensible aggressions but retard the true progress of our nation and tarnish its fair fame . They should therefore receive the indignant frowns of every good citizen who sincerely loves his country and takes a pride in its prosperity and honor . Our Constitution , though not perfect , is doubtless the best that ever was formed . Therefore let every proposition to change it be well weighed and , if found beneficial , cautiously adopted . Every patriot will rejoice to see its authority so exerted as to advance the prosperity and honor of the nation , whilst he will watch with jealousy any attempt to mutilate this charter of our liberties or pervert its powers to acts of aggression or injustice . Thus shall conservatism and progress blend their harmonious action in preserving the form and spirit of the Constitution and at the same time carry forward the great improvements of the country with a rapidity and energy which freemen only can display . In closing this my last annual communication , permit me , fellow citizens , to congratulate you on the prosperous condition of our beloved country . Abroad its relations with all foreign powers are friendly , its rights are respected , and its high place in the family of nations cheerfully recognized . At home we enjoy an amount of happiness , public and private , which has probably never fallen to the lot of any other people . Besides affording to our own citizens a degree of prosperity of which on so large a scale I know of no other instance , our country is annually affording a refuge and a home to multitudes , altogether without example , from the Old World . We owe these blessings , under Heaven , to the happy Constitution and Government which were bequeathed to us by our fathers , and which it is our sacred duty to transmit in all their integrity to our children . We must all consider it a great distinction and privilege to have been chosen by the people to bear a part in the administration of such a Government . Called by an unexpected dispensation to its highest trust at a season of embarrassment and alarm , I entered upon its arduous duties with extreme diffidence . I claim only to have discharged them to the best of an humble ability , with a single eye to the public good , and it is with devout gratitude in retiring from office that I leave the country in a state of peace and prosperity .<speech_sep>To the Senate and House of Representatives I have the pleasure of announcing to Congress the agreement on the part of Texas to the propositions offered to that State by the act of Congress approved on the 9th day of September last , entitled An act proposing to the State of Texas the establishment of her northern and western boundaries , the relinquishment by the said State of all territory claimed by her exterior to said boundaries and of all her claims upon the United States , and to establish a Territorial government for New Mexico . By the terms of that act it was required that the agreement of Texas to the propositions contained in it should be given on or before the 1st day of December , 1850 . An authenticated transcript of a law passed by the legislature of Texas on the 25th day of November , agreeing to and accepting the propositions contained in the act of Congress , has been received . This law , after reciting the provisions of the act of Congress , proceeds to enact and declare as follows , viz Therefore , first . Be it enacted by the legislature of the State of Texas , that the State of Texas hereby agrees to and accepts said propositions and it is hereby declared that the said State shall be bound by the terms thereof according to their true import and meaning . Second . That the governor of this State be , and is hereby , requested to cause a copy of this act , authenticated under the seal of the State , to be furnished to the President of the United States by mail as early as practicable , and also a copy thereof , certified in like manner , to be transmitted to each of the Senators and Representatives of Texas in Congress . And that this act take effect from and after its passage . KEENAN , Speaker of the House of Representatives . JOHN GREER , President of the Senate . BELL . Approved , November 25 , 1850 . From the common sources of public information it would appear that a very remarkable degree of unanimity prevailed , not only in the legislature , but among the people of Texas , in respect to the agreement of the State to that which had been proposed by Congress . I can not refrain from congratulating Congress and the country on the success of this great and leading measure of conciliation and peace . The difficulties felt and the dangers apprehended from the vast acquisitions of territory under the late treaty with Mexico seem now happily overcome by the wisdom of Congress . Within that territory there already exists one State , respectable for the amount of her population , distinguished for singular activity and enterprise , and remarkable in many respects from her condition and history . This new State has come into the Union with manifestations not to be mistaken of her attachment to that Constitution and that Government which now embrace her and her interests within their protecting and beneficent control . Over the residue of the acquired territories regular Territorial governments are now established in the manner which has been most usual in the history of this Government . Various other acts of Congress may undoubtedly be requisite for the benefit as well as for the proper government of these so distant parts of the country . But the same legislative wisdom which has triumphed over the principal difficulties and accomplished the main end may safely be relied on for whatever measures may yet be found necessary to perfect its work , so that the acquisition of these vast regions to the United States may rather strengthen than weaken the Constitution , which is over us all , and the Union , which affords such ample daily proofs of its inestimable value .<speech_sep>Fellow Citizens of the Senate and of the House of Representatives Being suddenly called in the midst of the last session of Congress by a painful dispensation of Divine Providence to the responsible station which I now hold , I contented myself with such communications to the Legislature as the exigency of the moment seemed to require . The country was shrouded in mourning for the loss of its venerable Chief Magistrate and all hearts were penetrated with grief . Neither the time nor the occasion appeared to require or to justify on my part any general expression of political opinions or any announcement of the principles which would govern me in the discharge of the duties to the performance of which I had been so unexpectedly called . I trust , therefore , that it may not be deemed inappropriate if I avail myself of this opportunity of the reassembling of Congress to make known my sentiments in a general manner in regard to the policy which ought to be pursued by the Government both in its intercourse with foreign nations and its management and administration of internal affairs . Nations , like individuals in a state of nature , are equal and independent , possessing certain rights and owing certain duties to each other , arising from their necessary and unavoidable relations which rights and duties there is no common human authority to protect and enforce . Still , they are rights and duties , binding in morals , in conscience , and in honor , although there is no tribunal to which an injured party can appeal but the disinterested judgment of mankind , and ultimately the arbitrament of the sword . Among the acknowledged rights of nations is that which each possesses of establishing that form of government which it may deem most conducive to the happiness and prosperity of its own citizens , of changing that form as circumstances may require , and of managing its internal affairs according to its own will . The people of the United States claim this right for themselves , and they readily concede it to others . Hence it becomes an imperative duty not to interfere in the government or internal policy of other nations and although we may sympathize with the unfortunate or the oppressed everywhere in their struggles for freedom , our principles forbid us from taking any part in such foreign contests . We make no wars to promote or to prevent successions to thrones , to maintain any theory of a balance of power , or to suppress the actual government which any country chooses to establish for itself . We instigate no revolutions , nor suffer any hostile military expeditions to be fitted out in the United States to invade the territory or provinces of a friendly nation . The great law of morality ought to have a national as well as a personal and individual application . We should act toward other nations as we wish them to act toward us , and justice and conscience should form the rule of conduct between governments , instead of mere power , self interest , or the desire of aggrandizement . To maintain a strict neutrality in foreign wars , to cultivate friendly relations , to reciprocate every noble and generous act , and to perform punctually and scrupulously every treaty obligation these are the duties which we owe to other states , and by the performance of which we best entitle ourselves to like treatment from them or , if that , in any case , be refused , we can enforce our own rights with justice and a clear conscience . In our domestic policy the Constitution will be my guide , and in questions of doubt I shall look for its interpretation to the judicial decisions of that tribunal which was established to expound it and to the usage of the Government , sanctioned by the acquiescence of the country . I regard all its provisions as equally binding . In all its parts it is the will of the people expressed in the most solemn form , and the constituted authorities are but agents to carry that will into effect . Every power which it has granted is to be exercised for the public good but no pretense of utility , no honest conviction , even , of what might be expedient , can justify the assumption of any power not granted . The powers conferred upon the Government and their distribution to the several departments are as clearly expressed in that sacred instrument as the imperfection of human language will allow , and I deem it my first duty not to question its wisdom , add to its provisions , evade its requirements , or nullify its commands . Upon you , fellow citizens , as the representatives of the States and the people , is wisely devolved the legislative power . I shall comply with my duty in laying before you from time to time any information calculated to enable you to discharge your high and responsible trust for the benefit of our common constituents . My opinions will be frankly expressed upon the leading subjects of legislation and if which I do not anticipate any act should pass the two Houses of Congress which should appear to me unconstitutional , or an encroachment on the just powers of other departments , or with provisions hastily adopted and likely to produce consequences injurious and unforeseen , I should not shrink from the duty of returning it to you , with my reasons , for your further consideration . Beyond the due performance of these constitutional obligations , both my respect for the Legislature and my sense of propriety will restrain me from any attempt to control or influence your proceedings . With you is the power , the honor , and the responsibility of the legislation of the country . The Government of the United States is a limited Government . It is confined to the exercise of powers expressly granted and such others as may be necessary for carrying those powers into effect and it is at all times an especial duty to guard against any infringement on the just rights of the States . Over the objects and subjects intrusted to Congress its legislative authority is supreme . But here that authority ceases , and every citizen who truly loves the Constitution and desires the continuance of its existence and its blessings will resolutely and firmly resist any interference in those domestic affairs which the Constitution has dearly and unequivocally left to the exclusive authority of the States . And every such citizen will also deprecate useless irritation among the several members of the Union and all reproach and crimination tending to alienate one portion of the country from another . The beauty of our system of government consists , and its safety and durability must consist , in avoiding mutual collisions and encroachments and in the regular separate action of all , while each is revolving in its own distinct orbit . The Constitution has made it the duty of the President to take care that the laws be faithfully executed . In a government like ours , in which all laws are passed by a majority of the representatives of the people , and these representatives are chosen for such short periods that any injurious or obnoxious law can very soon be repealed , it would appear unlikely that any great numbers should be found ready to resist the execution of the laws . But it must be borne in mind that the country is extensive that there may be local interests or prejudices rendering a law odious in one part which is not so in another , and that the thoughtless and inconsiderate , misled by their passions or their imaginations , may be induced madly to resist such laws as they disapprove . Such persons should recollect that without law there can be no real practical liberty that when law is trampled under foot tyranny rules , whether it appears in the form of a military despotism or of popular violence . The law is the only sure protection of the weak and the only efficient restraint upon the strong . When impartially and faithfully administered , none is beneath its protection and none above its control . You , gentlemen , and the country may be assured that to the utmost of my ability and to the extent of the power vested in me I shall at all times and in all places take care that the laws be faithfully executed . In the discharge of this duty , solemnly imposed upon me by the Constitution and by my oath of office , I shall shrink from no responsibility , and shall endeavor to meet events as they may arise with firmness , as well as with prudence and discretion . The appointing power is one of the most delicate with which the Executive is invested . I regard it as a sacred trust , to be exercised with the sole view of advancing the prosperity and happiness of the people . It shall be my effort to elevate the standard of official employment by selecting for places of importance individuals fitted for the posts to which they are assigned by their known integrity , talents , and virtues . In so extensive a country , with so great a population , and where few persons appointed to office can be known to the appointing power , mistakes will sometimes unavoidably happen and unfortunate appointments be made notwithstanding the greatest care . In such cases the power of removal may be properly exercised and neglect of duty or malfeasance in office will be no more tolerated in individuals appointed by myself than in those appointed by others . I am happy in being able to say that no unfavorable change in our foreign relations has taken place since the message at the opening of the last session of Congress . We are at peace with all nations and we enjoy in an eminent degree the blessings of that peace in a prosperous and growing commerce and in all the forms of amicable national intercourse . The unexampled growth of the country , the present amount of its population , and its ample means of self protection assure for it the respect of all nations , while it is trusted that its character for justice and a regard to the rights of other States will cause that respect to be readily and cheerfully paid . A convention was negotiated between the United States and Great Britain in April last for facilitating and protecting the construction of a ship canal between the Atlantic and Pacific oceans and for other purposes . The instrument has since been ratified by the contracting parties , the exchange of ratifications has been effected , and proclamation thereof has been duly made . In addition to the stipulations contained in this convention , two other objects remain to be accomplished between the contracting powers First . The designation and establishment of a free port at each end of the canal . Second . An agreement fixing the distance from the shore within which belligerent maritime operations shall not be carried on . On these points there is little doubt that the two Governments will come to an understanding . The company of citizens of the United States who have acquired from the State of Nicaragua the privilege of constructing a ship canal between the two oceans through the territory of that State have made progress in their preliminary arrangements . The treaty between the United States and Great Britain of the 19th of April last , above referred to , being now in operation , it is to be hoped that the guaranties which it offers will be sufficient to secure the completion of the work with all practicable expedition . It is obvious that this result would be indefinitely postponed if any other than peaceful measures for the purpose of harmonizing conflicting claims to territory in that quarter should be adopted . It will consequently be my endeavor to cause any further negotiations on the part of this Government which may be requisite for this purpose to be so conducted as to bring them to a speedy and successful close . Some unavoidable delay has occurred , arising from distance and the difficulty of intercourse between this Government and that of Nicaragua , but as intelligence has just been received of the appointment of an envoy extraordinary and minister plenipotentiary of that Government to reside at Washington , whose arrival may soon be expected , it is hoped that no further impediments will be experienced in the prompt transaction of business between the two Governments . Citizens of the United States have undertaken the connection of the two oceans by means of a railroad across the Isthmus of Tehuantepec , under grants of the Mexican Government to a citizen of that Republic . It is understood that a thorough survey of the course of the communication is in preparation , and there is every reason to expect that it will be prosecuted with characteristic energy , especially when that Government shall have consented to such stipulations with the Government of the United States as may be necessary to impart a feeling of security to those who may embark their property in the enterprise . Negotiations are pending for the accomplishment of that object , and a hope is confidently entertained that when the Government of Mexico shall become duly sensible of the advantages which that country can not fail to derive from the work , and learn that the Government of the United States desires that the right of sovereignty of Mexico in the Isthmus shall remain unimpaired , the stipulations referred to will be agreed to with alacrity . By the last advices from Mexico it would appear , however , that that Government entertains strong objections to some of the stipulations which the parties concerned in the project of the railroad deem necessary for their protection and security . Further consideration , it is to be hoped , or some modification of terms , may yet reconcile the differences existing between the two Governments in this respect . Fresh instructions have recently been given to the minister of the United States in Mexico , who is prosecuting the subject with promptitude and ability . Although the negotiations with Portugal for the payment of claims of citizens of the United States against that Government have not yet resulted in a formal treaty , yet a proposition , made by the Government of Portugal for the final adjustment and payment of those claims , has recently been accepted on the part of the United States . It gives me pleasure to say that Clay , to whom the negotiation on the part of the United States had been intrusted , discharged the duties of his appointment with ability and discretion , acting always within the instructions of his Government . It is expected that a regular convention will be immediately negotiated for carrying the agreement between the two Governments into effect . The commissioner appointed under the act of Congress for carrying into effect the convention with Brazil of the 27th of January , 1849 , has entered upon the performance of the duties imposed upon him by that act . It is hoped that those duties may be completed within the time which it prescribes . The documents , however , which the Imperial Government , by the third article of the convention , stipulates to furnish to the Government of the United States have not yet been received . As it is presumed that those documents will be essential for the correct disposition of the claims , it may become necessary for Congress to extend the period limited for the duration of the commission . The sum stipulated by the fourth article of the convention to be paid to this Government has been received . The collection in the ports of the United States of discriminating duties upon the vessels of Chili and their cargoes has been suspended , pursuant to the provisions of the act of Congress of the 24th of May , 1828 . It is to be hoped that this measure will impart a fresh impulse to the commerce between the two countries , which of late , and especially since our acquisition of California , has , to the mutual advantage of the parties , been much augmented . Peruvian guano has become so desirable an article to the agricultural interest of the United States that it is the duty of the Government to employ all the means properly in its power for the purpose of causing that article to be imported into the country at a reasonable price . Nothing will be omitted on my part toward accomplishing this desirable end . I am persuaded that in removing any restraints on this traffic the Peruvian Government will promote its own best interests , while it will afford a proof of a friendly disposition toward this country , which will be duly appreciated . The treaty between the United States and His Majesty the King of the Hawaiian Islands , which has recently been made public , will , it is believed , have a beneficial effect upon the relations between the two countries . The relations between those parts of the island of Domingo which were formerly colonies of Spain and France , respectively , are still in an unsettled condition . The proximity of that island to the United States and the delicate questions involved in the existing controversy there render it desirable that it should be permanently and speedily adjusted . The interests of humanity and of general commerce also demand this and as intimations of the same sentiment have been received from other governments , it is hoped that some plan may soon be devised to effect the object in a manner likely to give general satisfaction . The Government of the United States will not fail , by the exercise of all proper friendly offices , to do all in its power to put an end to the destructive war which has raged between the different parts of the island and to secure to them both the benefits of peace and commerce . I refer you to the report of the Secretary of the Treasury for a detailed statement of the finances . The total receipts into the Treasury for the year ending 30th of June last were 47 , 421 , 748 . 90 . The total expenditures during the same period were 43 , 002 , 168 . 90 . The public debt has been reduced since the last annual report from the Treasury Department 495 , 276 . 79 . By the nineteenth section of the act of 28th January , 1847 , the proceeds of the sales of the public lands were pledged for the interest and principal of the public debt . The great amount of those lands subsequently granted by Congress for military bounties will , it is believed , very nearly supply the public demand for several years to come , and but little reliance can , therefore , be placed on that hitherto fruitful source of revenue . Aside from the permanent annual expenditures , which have necessarily largely increased , a portion of the public debt , amounting to 8 , 075 , 986 . 59 , must be provided for within the next two fiscal years . It is most desirable that these accruing demands should be met without resorting to new loans . All experience has demonstrated the wisdom and policy of raising a large portion of revenue for the support of Government from duties on goods imported . The power to lay these duties is unquestionable , and its chief object , of course , is to replenish the Treasury . But if in doing this an incidental advantage may be gained by encouraging the industry of our own citizens , it is our duty to avail ourselves of that advantage . A duty laid upon an article which can not be produced in this country , such as tea or coffee , adds to the cost of the article , and is chiefly or wholly paid by the consumer . But a duty laid upon an article which may be produced here stimulates the skill and industry of our own country to produce the same article , which is brought into the market in competition with the foreign article , and the importer is thus compelled to reduce his price to that at which the domestic article can be sold , thereby throwing a part of the duty upon the producer of the foreign article . The continuance of this process creates the skill and invites the capital which finally enable us to produce the article much cheaper than it could have been procured from abroad , thereby benefiting both the producer and the consumer at home . The consequence of this is that the artisan and the agriculturist are brought together , each affords a ready market for the produce of the other , the whole country becomes prosperous , and the ability to produce every necessary of life renders us independent in war as well as in peace . A high tariff can never be permanent . It will cause dissatisfaction , and will be changed . It excludes competition , and thereby invites the investment of capital in manufactures to such excess that when changed it brings distress , bankruptcy , and ruin upon all who have been misled by its faithless protection . What the manufacturer wants is uniformity and permanency , that he may feel a confidence that he is not to be ruined by sudden exchanges . But to make a tariff uniform and permanent it is not only necessary that the laws should not be altered , but that the duty should not fluctuate . To effect this all duties should be specific wherever the nature of the article is such as to admit of it . Ad valorem duties fluctuate with the price and offer strong temptations to fraud and perjury . Specific duties , on the contrary , are equal and uniform in all ports and at all times , and offer a strong inducement to the importer to bring the best article , as he pays no more duty upon that than upon one of inferior quality . I therefore strongly recommend a modification of the present tariff , which has prostrated some of our most important and necessary manufactures , and that specific duties be imposed sufficient to raise the requisite revenue , making such discriminations in favor of the industrial pursuits of our own country as to encourage home production without excluding foreign competition . It is also important that an unfortunate provision in the present tariff , which imposes a much higher duty upon the raw material that enters into our manufactures than upon the manufactured article , should be remedied . The papers accompanying the report of the Secretary of the Treasury will disclose frauds attempted upon the revenue , in variety and amount so great as to justify the conclusion that it is impossible under any system of ad valorem duties levied upon the foreign cost or value of the article to secure an honest observance and an effectual administration of the laws . The fraudulent devices to evade the law which have been detected by the vigilance of the appraisers leave no room to doubt that similar impositions not discovered , to a large amount , have been successfully practiced since the enactment of the law now in force . This state of things has already had a prejudicial influence upon those engaged in foreign commerce . It has a tendency to drive the honest trader from the business of importing and to throw that important branch of employment into the hands of unscrupulous and dishonest men , who are alike regardless of law and the obligations of an oath . By these means the plain intentions of Congress , as expressed in the law , are daily defeated . Every motive of policy and duty , therefore , impels me to ask the earnest attention of Congress to this subject . If Congress should deem it unwise to attempt any important changes in the system of levying duties at this session , it will become indispensable to the protection of the revenue that such remedies as in the judgment of Congress may mitigate the evils complained of should be at once applied . As before stated , specific duties would , in my opinion , afford the most perfect remedy for this evil but if you should not concur in this view , then , as a partial remedy , I beg leave respectfully to recommend that instead of taking the invoice of the article abroad as a means of determining its value here , the correctness of which invoice it is in many cases impossible to verify , the law be so changed as to require a home valuation or appraisal , to be regulated in such manner as to give , as far as practicable , uniformity in the several ports . There being no mint in California , I am informed that the laborers in the mines are compelled to dispose of their gold dust at a large discount . This appears to me to be a heavy and unjust tax upon the labor of those employed in extracting this precious metal , and I doubt not you will be disposed at the earliest period possible to relieve them from it by the establishment of a mint . In the meantime , as an assayer s office is established there , I would respectfully submit for your consideration the propriety of authorizing gold bullion which has been assayed and stamped to be received in payment of Government dues . I can not conceive that the Treasury would suffer any loss by such a provision , which will at once raise bullion to its par value , and thereby save if I am rightly informed many millions of dollars to the laborers which are now paid in brokerage to convert this precious metal into available funds . This discount upon their hard earnings is a heavy tax , and every effort should be made by the Government to relieve them from so great a burden . More than three fourths of our population are engaged in the cultivation of the soil . The commercial , manufacturing , and navigating interests are all to a great extent dependent on the agricultural . It is therefore the most important interest of the nation , and has a just claim to the fostering care and protection of the Government so far as they can be extended consistently with the provisions of the Constitution . As this can not be done by the ordinary modes of legislation , I respectfully recommend the establishment of an agricultural bureau , to be charged with the duty of giving to this leading branch of American industry the encouragement which it so well deserves . In view of the immense mineral resources of our country , provision should also be made for the employment of a competent mineralogist and chemist , who should be required , under the direction of the head of the bureau , to collect specimens of the various minerals of our country and to ascertain by careful analysis their respective elements and properties and their adaptation to useful purposes . He should also be required to examine and report upon the qualities of different soils and the manures best calculated to improve their productiveness . By publishing the results of such experiments , with suitable explanations , and by the collection and distribution of rare seeds and plants , with instructions as to the best system of cultivation , much may be done to promote this great national interest . In compliance with the act of Congress passed on the 23d of May , 1850 , providing , among other things , for taking the Seventh Census , a superintendent was appointed and all other measures adopted which were deemed necessary to insure the prompt and faithful performance of that duty . The appropriation already made will , it is believed , be sufficient to defray the whole expense of the work , but further legislation may be necessary in regard to the compensation of some of the marshals of the Territories . It will also be proper to make provision by law at an early day for the publication of such abstracts of the returns as the public interests may require . The unprecedented growth of our territories on the Pacific in wealth and population and the consequent increase of their social and commercial relations with the Atlantic States seem to render it the duty of the Government to use all its constitutional power to improve the means of intercourse with them . The importance of opening a line of communication , the best and most expeditious of which the nature of the country will admit , between the Valley of the Mississippi and the Pacific was brought to your notice by my predecessor in his annual message and as the reasons which he presented in favor of the measure still exist in full force , I beg leave to call your attention to them and to repeat the recommendations then made by him . The uncertainty which exists in regard to the validity of land titles in California is a subject which demands your early consideration . Large bodies of land in that State are claimed under grants said to have been made by authority of the Spanish and Mexican Governments . Many of these have not been perfected , others have been revoked , and some are believed to be fraudulent . But until they shall have been judicially investigated they will continue to retard the settlement and improvement of the country . I therefore respectfully recommend that provision be made by law for the appointment of commissioners to examine all such claims with a view to their final adjustment . I also beg leave to call your attention to the propriety of extending at an early day our system of land laws , with such modifications as may be necessary , over the State of California and the Territories of Utah and New Mexico . The mineral lands of California will , of course , form an exception to any general system which may be adopted . Various methods of disposing of them have been suggested . I was at first inclined to favor the system of leasing , as it seemed to promise the largest revenue to the Government and to afford the best security against monopolies but further reflection and our experience in leasing the lead mines and selling lands upon credit have brought my mind to the conclusion that there would be great difficulty in collecting the rents , and that the relation of debtor and creditor between the citizens and the Government would be attended with many mischievous consequences . I therefore recommend that instead of retaining the mineral lands under the permanent control of the Government they be divided into small parcels and sold , under such restrictions as to quantity and time as will insure the best price and guard most effectually against combinations of capitalists to obtain monopolies . The annexation of Texas and the acquisition of California and New Mexico have given increased importance to our Indian relations . The various tribes brought under our jurisdiction by these enlargements of our boundaries are estimated to embrace a population of 124 , 000 . Texas and New Mexico are surrounded by powerful tribes of Indians , who are a source of constant terror and annoyance to the inhabitants . Separating into small predatory bands , and always mounted , they overrun the country , devastating farms , destroying crops , driving off whole herds of cattle , and occasionally murdering the inhabitants or carrying them into captivity . The great roads leading into the country are infested with them , whereby traveling is rendered extremely dangerous and immigration is almost entirely arrested . The Mexican frontier , which by the eleventh article of the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo we are bound to protect against the Indians within our border , is exposed to these incursions equally with our own . The military force stationed in that country , although forming a large proportion of the Army , is represented as entirely inadequate to our own protection and the fulfillment of our treaty stipulations with Mexico . The principal deficiency is in cavalry , and I recommend that Congress should , at as early a period as practicable , provide for the raising of one or more regiments of mounted men . For further suggestions on this subject and others connected with our domestic interests and the defense of our frontier , I refer you to the reports of the Secretary of the Interior and of the Secretary of War . I commend also to your favorable consideration the suggestion contained in the last mentioned report and in the letter of the General in Chief relative to the establishment of an asylum for the relief of disabled and destitute soldiers . This subject appeals so strongly to your sympathies that it would be superfluous in me to say anything more than barely to express my cordial approbation of the proposed object . The Navy continues to give protection to our commerce and other national interests in the different quarters of the globe , and , with the exception of a single steamer on the Northern lakes , the vessels in commission are distributed in six different squadrons . The report of the head of that Department will exhibit the services of these squadrons and of the several vessels employed in each during the past year . It is a source of gratification that , while they have been constantly prepared for any hostile emergency , they have everywhere met with the respect and courtesy due as well to the dignity as to the peaceful dispositions and just purposes of the nation . The two brigantines accepted by the Government from a generous citizen of New York and placed under the command of an officer of the Navy to proceed to the Arctic Seas in quest of the British commander Sir John Franklin and his companions , in compliance with the act of Congress approved in May last , had when last heard from penetrated into a high northern latitude but the success of this noble and humane enterprise is yet uncertain . I invite your attention to the view of our present naval establishment and resources presented in the report of the Secretary of the Navy , and the suggestions therein made for its improvement , together with the naval policy recommended for the security of our Pacific Coast and the protection and extension of our commerce with eastern Asia . Our facilities for a larger participation in the trade of the East , by means of our recent settlements on the shores of the Pacific , are too obvious to be overlooked or disregarded . The questions in relation to rank in the Army and Navy and relative rank between officers of the two branches of the service , presented to the Executive by certain resolutions of the House of Representatives at the last session of Congress , have been submitted to a board of officers in each branch of the service , and their report may be expected at an early day . I also earnestly recommend the enactment of a law authorizing officers of the Army and Navy to be retired from the service when incompetent for its vigorous and active duties , taking care to make suitable provision for those who have faithfully served their country and awarding distinctions by retaining in appropriate commands those who have been particularly conspicuous for gallantry and good conduct . While the obligation of the country to maintain and honor those who , to the exclusion of other pursuits , have devoted themselves to its arduous service is acknowledged , this obligation should not be permitted to interfere with the efficiency of the service itself . I am gratified in being able to state that the estimates of expenditure for the Navy in the ensuing year are less by more than 1 , 000 , 000 than those of the present , excepting the appropriation which may become necessary for the construction of a dock on the coast of the Pacific , propositions for which are now being considered and on which a special report may be expected early in your present session . There is an evident justness in the suggestion of the same report that appropriations for the naval service proper should be separated from those for fixed and permanent objects , such as building docks and navy yards and the fixtures attached , and from the extraordinary objects under the care of the Department which , however important , are not essentially naval . A revision of the code for the government of the Navy seems to require the immediate consideration of Congress . Its system of crimes and punishments had undergone no change for half a century until the last session , though its defects have been often and ably pointed out and the abolition of a particular species of corporal punishment , which then took place , without providing any substitute , has left the service in a state of defectiveness which calls for prompt correction . I therefore recommend that the whole subject be revised without delay and such a system established for the enforcement of discipline as shall be at once humane and effectual . The accompanying report of the Postmaster General presents a satisfactory view of the operations and condition of that Department . At the close of the last fiscal year the length of the inland mail routes in the United States not embracing the service in Oregon and California was 178 , 672 miles , the annual transportation thereon 46 , 541 , 423 miles , and the annual cost of such transportation 2 , 724 , 426 . The increase of the annual transportation over that of the preceding year was 3 , 997 , 354 miles and the increase in cost was 342 , 440 . The number of post offices in the United States on the 1st day of July last was 18 , 417 , being an increase of 1 , 670 during the preceding year . The gross revenues of the Department for the fiscal year ending June 30 , 1850 , amounted to 5 , 552 , 971 . 48 , including the annual appropriation of 200 , 000 for the franked matter of the Departments and excluding the foreign postages collected for and payable to the British Government . The expenditures for the same period were 5 , 212 , 953 . 43 , leaving a balance of revenue over expenditures of 340 , 018 . 05 . I am happy to find that the fiscal condition of the Department is such as to justify the Postmaster General in recommending the reduction of our inland letter postage to 3 cents the single letter when prepaid and 5 cents when not prepaid . He also recommends that the prepaid rate shall be reduced to 2 cents whenever the revenues of the Department , after the reduction , shall exceed its expenditures by more than 5 per cent for two consecutive years that the postage upon California and other letters sent by our ocean steamers shall be much reduced , and that the rates of postage on newspapers , pamphlets , periodicals , and other printed matter shall be modified and some reduction thereon made . It can not be doubted that the proposed reductions will for the present diminish the revenues of the Department . It is believed that the deficiency , after the surplus already accumulated shall be exhausted , may be almost wholly met either by abolishing the existing privileges of sending free matter through the mails or by paying out of the Treasury to the Post Office Department a sum equivalent to the postage of which it is deprived by such privileges . The last is supposed to be the preferable mode , and will , if not entirely , so nearly supply that deficiency as to make any further appropriation that may be found necessary so inconsiderable as to form no obstacle to the proposed reductions . I entertain no doubt of the authority of Congress to make appropriations for leading objects in that class of public works comprising what are usually called works of internal improvement . This authority I suppose to be derived chiefly from the power of regulating commerce with foreign nations and among the States and the power of laying and collecting imposts . Where commerce is to be carried on and imposts collected there must be ports and harbors as well as wharves and custom houses . If ships laden with valuable cargoes approach the shore or sail along the coast , light houses are necessary at suitable points for the protection of life and property . Other facilities and securities for commerce and navigation are hardly less important and those clauses of the Constitution , therefore , to which I have referred have received from the origin of the Government a liberal and beneficial construction . Not only have light houses , buoys , and beacons been established and floating lights maintained , but harbors have been cleared and improved , piers constructed , and even breakwaters for the safety of shipping and sea walls to protect harbors from being filled up and rendered useless by the action of the ocean , have been erected at very great expense . And this construction of the Constitution appears the more reasonable from the consideration that if these works , of such evident importance and utility , are not to be accomplished by Congress they can not be accomplished at all . By the adoption of the Constitution the several States voluntarily parted with the power of collecting duties of imposts in their own ports , and it is not to be expected that they should raise money by internal taxation , direct or indirect , for the benefit of that commerce the revenues derived from which do not , either in whole or in part , go into their own treasuries . Nor do I perceive any difference between the power of Congress to make appropriations for objects of this kind on the ocean and the power to make appropriations for similar objects on lakes and rivers , wherever they are large enough to bear on their waters an extensive traffic . The magnificent Mississippi and its tributaries and the vast lakes of the North and Northwest appear to me to fall within the exercise of the power as justly and as clearly as the ocean and the Gulf of Mexico . It is a mistake to regard expenditures judiciously made for these objects as expenditures for local purposes . The position or sight of the work is necessarily local , but its utility is general . A ship canal around the Falls of Mary of less than a mile in length , though local in its construction , would yet be national in its purpose and its benefits , as it would remove the only obstruction to a navigation of more than 1 , 000 miles , affecting several States , as well as our commercial relations with Canada . So , too , the breakwater at the mouth of the Delaware is erected , not for the exclusive benefit of the States bordering on the bay and river of that name , but for that of the whole coastwise navigation of the United States and , to a considerable extent , also of foreign commerce . If a ship be lost on the bar at the entrance of a Southern port for want of sufficient depth of water , it is very likely to be a Northern ship and if a steamboat be sunk in any part of the Mississippi on account of its channel not having been properly cleared of obstructions , it may be a boat belonging to either of eight or ten States . I may add , as somewhat remarkable , that among all the thirty one States there is none that is not to a greater or less extent bounded on the ocean , or the Gulf of Mexico , or one of the Great Lakes , or some navigable river . In fulfilling our constitutional duties , fellow citizens , on this subject , as in carrying into effect all other powers conferred by the Constitution , we should consider ourselves as deliberating and acting for one and the same country , and bear constantly in mind that our regard and our duty are due not to a particular part only , but to the whole . I therefore recommend that appropriations be made for completing such works as have been already begun and for commencing such others as may seem to the wisdom of Congress to be of public and general importance . The difficulties and delays incident to the settlement of private claims by Congress amount in many cases to a denial of justice . There is reason to apprehend that many unfortunate creditors of the Government have thereby been unavoidably ruined . Congress has so much business of a public character that it is impossible it should give much attention to mere private claims , and their accumulation is now so great that many claimants must despair of ever being able to obtain a hearing . It may well be doubted whether Congress , from the nature of its organization , is properly constituted to decide upon such cases . It is impossible that each member should examine the merits of every claim on which he is compelled to vote , and it is preposterous to ask a judge to decide a case which he has never heard . Such decisions may , and frequently must , do injustice either to the claimant or the Government , and I perceive no better remedy for this growing evil than the establishment of some tribunal to adjudicate upon such claims . I beg leave , therefore , most respectfully to recommend that provision be made by law for the appointment of a commission to settle all private claims against the United States and as an ex parte hearing must in all contested cases be very unsatisfactory , I also recommend the appointment of a solicitor , whose duty it shall be to represent the Government before such commission and protect it against all illegal , fraudulent , or unjust claims which may be presented for their adjudication . This District , which has neither voice nor vote in your deliberations , looks to you for protection and aid , and I commend all its wants to your favorable consideration , with a full confidence that you will meet them not only with justice , but with liberality . It should be borne in mind that in this city , laid out by Washington and consecrated by his name , is located the Capitol of our nation , the emblem of our Union and the symbol of our greatness . Here also are situated all the public buildings necessary for the use of the Government , and all these are exempt from taxation . It should be the pride of Americans to render this place attractive to the people of the whole Republic and convenient and safe for the transaction of the public business and the preservation of the public records . The Government should therefore bear a liberal proportion of the burdens of all necessary and useful improvements . And as nothing could contribute more to the health , comfort , and safety of the city and the security of the public buildings and records than an abundant supply of pure water , I respectfully recommend that you make such provisions for obtaining the same as in your wisdom you may deem proper . The act , passed at your last session , making certain propositions to Texas for settling the disputed boundary between that State and the Territory of New Mexico was , immediately on its passage , transmitted by express to the governor of Texas , to be laid by him before the general assembly for its agreement thereto . Its receipt was duly acknowledged , but no official information has yet been received of the action of the general assembly thereon . It may , however , be very soon expected , as , by the terms of the propositions submitted they were to have been acted upon on or before the first day of the present month . It was hardly to have been expected that the series of measures passed at your last session with the view of healing the sectional differences which had sprung from the slavery and territorial questions should at once have realized their beneficent purpose . All mutual concession in the nature of a compromise must necessarily be unwelcome to men of extreme opinions . And though without such concessions our Constitution could not have been formed , and can not be permanently sustained , yet we have seen them made the subject of bitter controversy in both sections of the Republic . It required many months of discussion and deliberation to secure the concurrence of a majority of Congress in their favor . It would be strange if they had been received with immediate approbation by people and States prejudiced and heated by the exciting controversies of their representatives . I believe those measures to have been required by the circumstances and condition of the country . I believe they were necessary to allay asperities and animosities that were rapidly alienating one section of the country from another and destroying those fraternal sentiments which are the strongest supports of the Constitution . They were adopted in the spirit of conciliation and for the purpose of conciliation . I believe that a great majority of our fellow citizens sympathize in that spirit and that purpose , and in the main approve and are prepared in all respects to sustain these enactments . I can not doubt that the American people , bound together by kindred blood and common traditions , still cherish a paramount regard for the Union of their fathers , and that they are ready to rebuke any attempt to violate its integrity , to disturb the compromises on which it is based , or to resist the laws which have been enacted under its authority . The series of measures to which I have alluded are regarded by me as a settlement in principle and substance a final settlement of the dangerous and exciting subjects which they embraced . Most of these subjects , indeed , are beyond your reach , as the legislation which disposed of them was in its character final and irrevocable . It may be presumed from the opposition which they all encountered that none of those measures was free from imperfections , but in their mutual dependence and connection they formed a system of compromise the most conciliatory and best for the entire country that could be obtained from conflicting sectional interests and opinions . For this reason I recommend your adherence to the adjustment established by those measures until time and experience shall demonstrate the necessity of further legislation to guard against evasion or abuse . By that adjustment we have been rescued from the wide and boundless agitation that surrounded us , and have a firm , distinct , and legal ground to rest upon . And the occasion , I trust , will justify me in exhorting my countrymen to rally upon and maintain that ground as the best , if not the only , means of restoring peace and quiet to the country and maintaining inviolate the integrity of the Union . And now , fellow citizens , I can not bring this communication to a close without invoking you to join me in humble and devout thanks to the Great Ruler of Nations for the multiplied blessings which He has graciously bestowed upon us . His hand , so often visible in our preservation , has stayed the pestilence , saved us from foreign wars and domestic disturbances , and scattered plenty throughout the land . Our liberties , religions and civil , have been maintained , the fountains of knowledge have all been kept open , and means of happiness widely spread and generally enjoyed greater than have fallen to the lot of any other nation . And while deeply penetrated with gratitude for the past , let us hope that His all wise providence will so guide our counsels as that they shall result in giving satisfaction to our constituents , securing the peace of the country , and adding new strength to the united Government under which we live .<speech_sep>