The period for a new election of a citizen to administer the Executive Government of the United States being not far distant , and the time actually arrived when your thoughts must be employed in designating the person who is to be clothed with that important trust , it appears to me proper , especially as it may conduce to a more distinct expression of the public voice , that I should now apprise you of the resolution I have formed to decline being considered among the number of those out of whom a choice is to be made . I beg you at the same time to do me the justice to be assured that this resolution has not been taken without a strict regard to all the considerations appertaining to the relation which binds a dutiful citizen to his country and that in withdrawing the tender of service , which silence in my Situation might imply , I am influenced by no diminution of zeal for your future interest , no deficiency of grateful respect for your past kindness , but am supported by a full conviction that the step is compatible with both . The acceptance of and continuance hitherto in the office to which your suffrages have twice called me have been a uniform sacrifice of inclination to the opinion of duty and to a deference for what appeared to be your desire . I constantly hoped that it would have been much earlier in my power , consistently with motives which I was not at liberty to disregard , to return to that retirement from which I had been reluctantly drawn . The strength of my inclination to do this previous to the last election had even led to the preparation of an address to declare it to you but mature reflection on the then perplexed and critical posture of our affairs with foreign nations and the unanimous advice of persons entitled to my confidence impelled me to abandon the idea . I rejoice that the state of your concerns , external as well as internal , no longer renders the pursuit of inclination incompatible with the sentiment of duty or propriety , and am persuaded , whatever partiality may be retained for my services , that in the present circumstances of our country you will not disapprove my determination to retire . The impressions with which I first undertook the arduous trust were explained on the proper occasion . In the discharge of this trust I will only say that I have , with good intentions , contributed toward the organization and administration of the Government the best exertions of which a very fallible judgment was capable , Not unconscious in the outset of the inferiority of my qualifications , experience in my own eyes , perhaps still more in the eyes of others , has strengthened the motives to diffidence of myself and every day the increasing weight of years admonishes me more and more that the shade of retirement is as necessary to me as it will be welcome . Satisfied that if any circumstances have given peculiar value to my services they were temporary , I have the consolation to believe that , while choice and prudence invite me to quit the political scene , patriotism does not forbid it . In looking forward to the moment which is intended to terminate the career of my political life my feelings do not permit me to suspend the deep acknowledgment of that debt of gratitude which I owe to my beloved country for the many honors it has conferred upon me still more for the steadfast confidence with which it has supported me , and for the opportunities I have thence enjoyed of manifesting my inviolable attachment by services faithful and persevering , though in usefulness unequal to my zeal . If benefits have resulted to our country from these services , let it always be remembered to your praise and as an instructive example in our annals that under circumstances in which the passions , agitated in every direction , were liable to mislead amidst appearances sometimes dubious vicissitudes of fortune often discouraging in situations in which not unfrequently want of success has countenanced the spirit of criticism , the constancy of your support was the essential prop of the efforts and a guaranty of the plans by which they were effected . Profoundly penetrated with this idea , I shall carry it with me to my grave as a strong incitement to unceasing vows that Heaven may continue to you the choicest tokens of its beneficence that your union and brotherly affection may be perpetual that the free Constitution which is the work of your hands may be sacredly maintained that its administration in every department may be stamped with wisdom and virtue that , in fine , the happiness of the people of these States , under the auspices of liberty , may be made complete by so careful a preservation and so prudent a use of this blessing as will acquire to them the glory of recommending it to the applause , the affection , and adoption of every nation which is yet a stranger to it . Here , perhaps , I ought to stop . But a solicitude for your welfare which can not end but with my life , and the apprehension of danger natural to that solicitude , urge me on an occasion like the present to offer to your solemn contemplation and to recommend to your frequent review some sentiments which are the result of much reflection , of no inconsiderable observation , and which appear to me all important to the permanency of your felicity as a people . These will be offered to you with the more freedom as you can only see in them the disinterested warnings of a parting friend , who can possibly have no personal motive to bias his counsel . Nor can I forget as an encouragement to it your indulgent reception of my sentiments on a former and not dissimilar occasion . Interwoven as is the love of liberty with every ligament of your hearts , no recommendation of mine is necessary to fortify or confirm the attachment . The unity of government which constitutes you one people is also now dear to you . It is justly so , for it is a main pillar in the edifice of your real independence , the support of your tranquillity at home , your peace abroad , of your safety , of your prosperity , of that very liberty which you so highly prize . But as it is easy to foresee that from different causes and from different quarters much pains will be taken , many artifices employed , to weaken in your minds the conviction of this truth , as this is the point in your political fortress against which the batteries of internal and external enemies will be most constantly and actively though often covertly and insidiously directed , it is of infinite moment that you should properly estimate the immense value of your national union to your collective and individual happiness that you should cherish a cordial , habitual , and immovable attachment to it accustoming yourselves to think and speak of it as of the palladium of your political safety and prosperity watching for its preservation with jealous anxiety discountenancing whatever may suggest even a suspicion that it can in any event be abandoned , and indignantly frowning upon the first dawning of every attempt to alienate any portion of our country from the rest or to enfeeble the sacred ties which now link together the various parts . For this you have every inducement of sympathy and interest . Citizens by birth or choice of a common country , that country has a right to concentrate your affections . The name of American , which belongs to you in your national capacity , must always exalt the just pride of patriotism more than any appellation derived from local discriminations . With slight shades of difference , you have the same religion , manners , habits , and political principles . You have in a common cause fought and triumphed together . The independence and liberty you possess are the work of joint councils and joint efforts , of common dangers , sufferings , and successes . But these considerations , however powerfully they address themselves to your sensibility , are greatly outweighed by those which apply more immediately to your interest . Here every portion of our country finds the most commanding motives for carefully guarding and preserving the union of the whole . The North , in an unrestrained intercourse with the South , protected by the equal laws of a common government , finds in the productions of the latter great additional resources of maritime and commercial enterprise and precious materials of manufacturing industry . The South , in the same intercourse , benefiting by the same agency of the North , sees its agriculture grow and its commerce expand . Turning partly into its own channels the seamen of the North , it finds its particular navigation invigorated and while it contributes in different ways to nourish and increase the general mass of the national navigation , it looks forward to the protection of a maritime strength to which itself is unequally adapted . The East , in a like intercourse with the West , already finds , and in the progressive improvement of interior communications by land and water will more and more find , a valuable vent for the commodities which it brings from abroad or manufactures at home . The West derives from the East supplies requisite to its growth and comfort , and what is perhaps of still greater consequence , it must of necessity owe the secure enjoyment of indispensable outlets for its own productions to the weight , influence , and the future maritime strength of the Atlantic side of the Union , directed by an indissoluble community of interest as one nation . Any other tenure by which the West can hold this essential advantage , whether derived from its own separate strength or from an apostate and unnatural connection with any foreign power , must be intrinsically precarious . While , then , every part of our country thus feels an immediate and particular interest in union , all the parts combined can not fail to find in the united mass of means and efforts greater strength , greater resource , proportionably greater security from external danger , a less frequent interruption of their peace by foreign nations , and what is of inestimable value , they must derive from union an exemption from those broils and wars between themselves which so frequently afflict neighboring countries not tied together by the same governments , which their own rivalships alone would be sufficient to produce , but which opposite foreign alliances , attachments , and intrigues would stimulate and imbitter . Hence , likewise , they will avoid the necessity of those overgrown military establishments which , under any form of government , are inauspicious to liberty , and which are to be regarded as particularly hostile to republican liberty . In this sense it is that your union ought to be considered as a main prop of your liberty , and that the love of the one ought to endear to you the preservation of the other . These considerations speak a persuasive language to every reflecting and virtuous mind , and exhibit the continuance of the union as a primary object of patriotic desire . Is there a doubt whether a common government can embrace so large a sphere Let experience solve it . To listen to mere speculation in such a case were criminal . We are authorized to hope that a proper organization of the whole , with the auxiliary agency of governments for the respective subdivisions , will afford a happy issue to the experiment . It is well worth a fair and full experiment . With such powerful and obvious motives to union affecting all parts of our country , while experience shall not have demonstrated its impracticability , there will always be reason to distrust the patriotism of those who in any quarter may endeavor to weaken its bands . In contemplating the causes which may disturb our union it occurs as matter of serious concern that any ground should have been furnished for characterizing parties by geographical discriminations Northern and Southern , Atlantic and Western whence designing men may endeavor to excite a belief that there is a real difference of local interests and views . One of the expedients of party to acquire influence within particular districts is to misrepresent the opinions and aims of other districts . You can not shield yourselves too much against the jealousies and heartburnings which spring from these misrepresentations they tend to render alien to each other those who ought to be bound together by fraternal affection . The inhabitants of our Western country have lately had a useful lesson on this head . They have seen in the negotiation by the Executive and in the unanimous ratification by the Senate of the treaty with Spain , and in the universal satisfaction at that event throughout the United States , a decisive proof how unfounded were the suspicions propagated among them of a policy in the General Government and in the Atlantic States unfriendly to their interests in regard to the Mississippi . They have been witnesses to the formation of two treaties that with Great Britain and that with Spain which secure to them everything they could desire in respect to our foreign relations toward confirming their prosperity . Will it not be their wisdom to rely for the preservation of these advantages on the union by which they were procured Will they not henceforth be deaf to those advisers , if such there are , who would sever them from their brethren and connect them with aliens To the efficacy and permanency of your union a government for the whole is indispensable . No alliances , however strict , between the parts can be an adequate substitute . They must inevitably experience the infractions and interruptions which all alliances in all times have experienced . Sensible of this momentous truth , you have improved upon your first essay by the adoption of a Constitution of Government better calculated than your former for an intimate union and for the efficacious management of your common concerns . This Government , the offspring of our own choice , uninfluenced and unawed , adopted upon full investigation and mature deliberation , completely free in its principles , in the distribution of its powers , uniting security with energy , and containing within itself a provision for its own amendment , has a just claim to your confidence and your support . Respect for its authority , compliance with its laws , acquiescence in its measures , are duties enjoined by the fundamental maxims of true liberty . The basis of our political systems is the right of the people to make and to alter their constitutions of government . But the constitution which at any time exists till changed by an explicit and authentic act of the whole people is sacredly obligatory upon all . The very idea of the power and the right of the people to establish government presupposes the duty of every individual to obey the established government . All obstructions to the execution of the laws , all combinations and associations , under whatever plausible character , with the real design to direct , control , counteract , or awe the regular deliberation and action of the constituted authorities , are destructive of this fundamental principle and of fatal tendency . They serve to organize faction to give it an artificial and extraordinary force to put in the place of the delegated will of the nation the will of a party , often a small but artful and enterprising minority of the community , and , according to the alternate triumphs of different parties , to snake the public administration the mirror of the ill concerted and incongruous projects of faction rather than the organ of consistent and wholesome plans , digested by common counsels and modified by mutual interests . However combinations or associations of the above description may now and then answer popular ends , they are likely in the course of time and things to become potent engines by which cunning , ambitious , and unprincipled men will be enabled to subvert the power of the people , and to usurp for themselves the reins of government , destroying . afterwards the very engines which have lifted them to unjust dominion . Toward the preservation of your Government and the permanency of your present happy state , it is requisite not only that you steadily discountenance irregular oppositions to its acknowledged authority , but also that you resist with care the spirit of innovation upon its principles , however specious the pretexts . One method of assault may be to effect in the forms of the Constitution alterations which will impair the energy of the system , and thus to undermine what can not be directly overthrown . In all the changes to which you may be invited remember that time and habit are at least as necessary to fix the true character of governments as of other human institutions that experience is the surest standard by which to test the real tendency of the existing constitution of a country that facility in changes upon the credit of mere hypothesis and opinion exposes to perpetual change , from the endless variety of hypothesis and opinion and remember especially that for the efficient management of your common interests in a country so extensive as ours a government of as much vigor as is consistent with the perfect security of liberty is indispensable . Liberty itself will find in such a government , with powers properly distributed and adjusted , its surest guardian . It is , indeed , little else than a name where the government is too feeble to withstand the enterprises of faction , to confine each member of the society within the limits prescribed by the laws , and to maintain all in the secure and tranquil enjoyment of the rights of person and property . I have already intimated to you the danger of parties in the State , with particular reference to the founding of them on geographical discriminations . Let me now take a more comprehensive view , and warn you in the most solemn manner against the baneful effects of the spirit of party generally . This spirit , unfortunately , is inseparable from our nature , having its root in the strongest passions of the human mind . It exists under different shapes in all governments , more or less stifled , controlled , or repressed but in those of the popular form it is seen in its greatest rankness and is truly their worst enemy . The alternate domination of one faction over another , sharpened by the spirit of revenge natural to party dissension , which in different ages and countries has perpetrated the most horrid enormities , is itself a frightful despotism . But this leads at length to a more formal and permanent despotism . The disorders and miseries which result gradually incline the minds of men to seek security and repose in the absolute power of an individual , and sooner or later the chief of some prevailing faction , more able or more fortunate than his competitors , turns this disposition to the purposes of his own elevation on the ruins of public liberty . Without looking forward to an extremity of this kind which nevertheless ought not to be entirely out of sight , the common and continual mischiefs of the spirit of party are sufficient to make it the interest and duty of a wise people to discourage and restrain it . It serves always to distract the public councils and enfeeble the public administration . It agitates the community with ill rounded jealousies and false alarms kindles the animosity of one part against another foments occasionally riot and insurrection . It opens the door to foreign influence and corruption , which find a facilitated access to the government itself through the channels of party passion . Thus the policy and the will of one country are subjected to the policy and will of another . There is an opinion that parties in free countries are useful checks upon the administration of the government , and serve to keep alive the spirit of liberty . This within certain limits is probably true and in governments of a monarchical cast patriotism may look with indulgence , if not with favor , upon the spirit of party . But in those of the popular character , in governments purely elective , it is a spirit not to be encouraged . From their natural tendency it is certain there will always be enough of that spirit for every salutary purpose and there being constant danger of excess , the effort ought to be by force of public opinion to mitigate and assuage it . A fire not to be quenched , it demands a uniform vigilance to prevent its bursting into a flame , lest , instead of warming , it should consume . It is important , likewise , that the habits of thinking in a free country should inspire caution in those intrusted with its administration to confine themselves within their respective constitutional spheres , avoiding in the exercise of the powers of one department to encroach upon another . The spirit of encroachment tends to consolidate the powers of all the departments in one , and thus to create , whatever the form of government , a real despotism . A just estimate of that love of power and proneness to abuse it which predominates in the human heart is sufficient to satisfy us of the truth of this position . The necessity of reciprocal checks in the exercise of political power , by dividing and distributing it into different depositories , and constituting each the guardian of the public weal against invasions by the others , has been evinced by experiments ancient and modern , some of them in our country and under our own eyes . To preserve them must be as necessary as to institute them . If in the opinion of the people the distribution or modification of the constitutional powers be in any particular wrong , let it be corrected by an amendment in the way which the Constitution designates . But let there be no change by usurpation for though this in one instance may be the instrument of good , it is the customary weapon by which free governments are destroyed . The precedent must always greatly overbalance in permanent evil any partial or transient benefit which the use can at any time yield . Of all the dispositions and habits which lead to political prosperity , religion and morality are indispensable supports . In vain would that man claim the tribute of patriotism who should labor to subvert these great pillars of human happiness these firmest props of the duties of men and citizens . The mere politician , equally with the pious man , ought to respect and to cherish them . A volume could not trace all their connections with private and public felicity . Let it simply be asked , Where is the security for property , for reputation , for life , if the sense of religious obligation desert the oaths which are the instruments of investigation in courts of justice And let us with caution indulge the supposition that morality can be maintained without religion . Whatever may be conceded to the influence of refined education on minds of peculiar structure , reason and experience both forbid us to expect that national morality can prevail in exclusion of religious principle . It is substantially true that virtue or morality is a necessary spring of popular government . The rule indeed extends with more or less force to every species of free government . Who that is a sincere friend to it can look with indifference upon attempts to shake the foundation of the fabric Promote , then , as an object of primary importance , institutions for the general diffusion of knowledge . In proportion as the structure of a government gives force to public opinion , it is essential that public opinion should be enlightened . As a very important source of strength and security , cherish public credit . One method of preserving it is to use it as sparingly as possible , avoiding occasions of expense by cultivating peace , but remembering also that timely disbursements to prepare for danger frequently prevent much greater disbursements to repel it avoiding likewise the accumulation of debt , not only by shunning occasions of expense , but by vigorous exertions in time of peace to discharge the debts which unavoidable wars have occasioned , not ungenerously throwing upon posterity the burthen which we ourselves ought to bear . The execution of these maxims belongs to your representatives but it is necessary that public opinion should cooperate . To facilitate to them the performance of their duty it is essential that you should practically bear in mind that toward the payment of debts there must be revenue that to have revenue there must be taxes that no taxes can be devised which are not more or less inconvenient and unpleasant that thee intrinsic embarrassment inseparable from the selection of the proper objects which is always a choice of difficulties , ought to be a decisive motive for a candid construction of the conduct of the Government in making it , and for a spirit of acquiescence in the measures for obtaining revenue which the public exigencies may at any time dictate . Observe good faith and justice toward all nations . Cultivate peace and harmony with all . Religion and morality enjoin this conduct . And can it be that good policy does not equally enjoin it It will be worthy of a free , enlightened , and at no distant period a great nation to give to mankind the magnanimous and too novel example of a people always guided by an exalted justice and benevolence . Who can doubt that in the course of time and things the fruits of such a plan would richly repay any temporary advantages which might be lost by a steady adherence to it Can it be that Providence has not connected the permanent felicity of a nation with its virtue The experiment , at least , is recommended by every sentiment which ennobles human nature . Alas is it rendered impossible by its vices In the execution of such a plan nothing is more essential than that permanent , inveterate antipathies against particular nations and passionate attachments for others should be excluded , and that in place of them just and amicable feelings toward all should be cultivated . The nation which indulges toward another an habitual hatred or an habitual fondness is in some degree a slave . It is a slave to its animosity or to its affection , either of which is sufficient to lead it astray from its duty and its interest . Antipathy in one nation against another disposes each more readily to offer insult and injury , to lay hold of slight causes of umbrage , and to be haughty and intractable when accidental or trifling occasions of dispute occur . Hence frequent collisions , obstinate , envenomed , and bloody contests . The nation prompted by ill will and resentment sometimes impels to war the government contrary to the best calculations of policy . The government sometimes participates in the national propensity , and adopts through passion what reason would reject . At other times it makes the animosity of the nation subservient to projects of hostility , instigated by pride , ambition , and other sinister and pernicious motives . The peace often , sometimes perhaps the liberty , of nations has been the victim . So , likewise , a passionate attachment of one nation for another produces a variety of evils . Sympathy for the favorite nation , facilitating the illusion of an imaginary common interest in cases where no real common interest exists , and infusing into one the enmities of the other , betrays the former into a participation in the quarrels and wars of the latter without adequate inducement or justification . It leads also to concessions to the favorite nation of privileges denied to others , which is apt doubly to injure the nation making the concessions by unnecessarily parting with what ought to have been retained , and by exciting jealousy , ill will , and a disposition to retaliate in the parties from whom equal privileges are withheld and it gives to ambitions , corrupted , or deluded citizens who devote themselves to the favorite nation facility to betray or sacrifice the interests of their own country without odium , sometimes even with popularity , gilding with the appearances of a virtuous sense of obligation , a commendable deference for public opinion , or a laudable zeal for public good the base or foolish compliances of ambition , corruption , or infatuation . As avenues to foreign influence in innumerable ways , such attachments are particularly alarming to the truly enlightened and independent patriot . How many opportunities do they afford to tamper with domestic factions , to practice the arts of seduction , to mislead public opinion , to influence or awe the public councils Such an attachment of a small or weak toward a great and powerful nation dooms the former to be the satellite of the latter . Against the insidious wiles of foreign influence I conjure you to believe me , fellow citizens the jealousy of a free people ought to be constantly awake , since history and experience prove that foreign influence is one of the most baneful foes of republican government . But that jealousy , to be useful , must be impartial , else it becomes the instrument of the very influence to be avoided , instead of a defense against it . Excessive partiality for one foreign nation and excessive dislike of another cause those whom they actuate to see danger only on one side , and serve to veil and even second the arts of influence on the other . Real patriots who may resist the intrigues of the favorite are liable to become suspected and odious , while its tools and dupes usurp the applause and confidence of the people to surrender their interests . The great rule of conduct for us in regard to foreign nations is , in extending our commercial relations to have with them as little political connection as possible . So far as we have already formed engagements let them be fulfilled with perfect good faith . Here let us stop . Europe has a set of primary interests which to us have none or a very remote relation . Hence she must be engaged in frequent controversies , the causes of which are essentially foreign to our concerns . Hence , therefore , it must be unwise in us to implicate ourselves by artificial ties in the ordinary vicissitudes of her politics or the ordinary combinations and collisions of her friendships or enmities . Our detached and distant situation invites and enables us to pursue a different course . If we remain one people , under an efficient government , the period is not far off when we may defy material injury from external annoyance when we may take such an attitude as will cause the neutrality we may at any time resolve upon to be scrupulously respected when belligerent nations , under the impossibility of making acquisitions upon us , will not lightly hazard the giving us provocation when we may choose peace or war , as our interest , guided by justice , shall counsel . Why forego the advantages of so peculiar a situation Why quit our own to stand upon foreign ground Why , by interweaving our destiny with that of any part of Europe , entangle our peace and prosperity in the toils of European ambition , rivalship , interest , humor , or caprice It is our true policy to steer clear of permanent alliances with any portion of the foreign world , so far , I mean , as we are now at liberty to do it for let me not be understood as capable of patronizing infidelity to existing engagements . I hold the maxim no less applicable to public than to private affairs that honesty is always . the best policy . I repeat , therefore , let those engagements be unwise to extend them . Taking care always to keep ourselves by suitable establishments on a respectable defensive posture , we may safely trust to temporary alliances for extraordinary emergencies . Harmony , liberal intercourse with all nations are recommended by policy , humanity , and interest . But even our commercial policy should hold an equal and impartial hand , neither seeking nor granting exclusive favors or preferences consulting the natural course of things diffusing and diversifying by gentle means the streams of commerce , but forcing nothing establishing with powers so disposed , in order to give trade a stable course , to define the rights of our merchants , and to enable the Government to support them , conventional rules of intercourse , the best that present circumstances and mutual opinion will permit , but temporary and liable to be from time to time abandoned or varied as experience and circumstances shall dictate constantly keeping in view that it is folly in one nation to look for disinterested favors from another that it must pay with a portion of its independence for whatever it may accept under that character that by such acceptance it may place itself in the condition of having given equivalents for nominal favors , and yet of being reproached with ingratitude for not giving more . There can be no greater error than to expect or calculate upon real favors from nation to nation . It is an illusion which experience must cure , which a just pride ought to discard . In offering to you , my countrymen , these counsels of an old and affectionate friend I dare not hope they will make the strong and lasting impression I could wish that they will control the usual current of the passions or prevent our nation from running the course which has hitherto marked the destiny of nations . But if I may even flatter myself that they may be productive of some partial benefit , some occasional good that they may now and then recur to moderate the fury of party spirit , to warn against the mischiefs of foreign intrigue , to guard against the impostures of pretended patriotism this hope will be a full recompense for the solicitude for your welfare by which they have been dictated . How far in the discharge of my official duties I have been guided by the principles which have been delineated the public records and other evidences of my conduct must witness to you and to the world . To myself , the assurance of my own conscience is that I have at least believed myself to be guided by them . In relation to the still subsisting war in Europe my proclamation of the 22d of April , 1793 , is the index to my plan . Sanctioned by your approving voice and by that of your representatives in both Houses of Congress , the spirit of that measure has continually governed me , uninfluenced by any attempts to deter or divert me from it . After deliberate examination , with the aid of the best lights I could obtain , I was well satisfied that our country , under all the circumstances of the case , had a right to take , and was bound in duty and interest to take , a neutral position . Having taken it , I determined as far as should depend upon me to maintain it with moderation , perseverance , and firmness . The considerations which respect the right to hold this conduct it is not necessary on this occasion to detail . I will only observe that , according to my understanding of the matter , that right , so far from being denied by any of the belligerent powers , has been virtually admitted by all . The duty of holding a neutral conduct may be inferred , without anything more , from the obligation which justice and humanity impose on every nation , in cases in which it is free to act , to maintain inviolate the relations of peace and amity toward other nations . The inducements of interest for observing that conduct will best be referred to your own reflections and experience . With me a predominant motive has been to endeavor to gain time to our country to settle and mature its yet recent institutions , and to progress without interruption to that degree of strength and consistency which is necessary to give it , humanly speaking , the command of its own fortunes . Though in reviewing the incidents of my Administration I am unconscious of intentional error , I am nevertheless too sensible of my defects not to think it probable that I may have committed many errors . Whatever they may be , I fervently beseech the Almighty to avert or mitigate the evils to which they may tend . I shall also carry with me the hope that my country will never cease to view them with indulgence , and that , after forty five years of my life dedicated to its service with an upright zeal , the faults of incompetent abilities will be consigned to oblivion , as myself must soon be to the mansions of rest . Relying on its kindness in this as in other things , and actuated by that fervent love toward it which is so natural to a man who views in it the native soil of himself and his progenitors for several generations , I anticipate with pleasing expectation that retreat in which I promise myself to realize without alloy the sweet enjoyment of partaking in the midst of my fellow citizens the benign influence of good laws under a free government the ever favorite object of my heart , and the happy reward , as I trust , of our mutual cares , labors , and dangers .<speech_sep>Whereas combinations to defeat the execution of the laws laying duties upon spirits distilled within the United States and upon stills have from the time of the commencement of those laws existed in some of the western parts of Pennsylvania and Whereas the said combinations , proceeding in a manner subversive equally of the just authority of government and of the rights of individuals , have hitherto effected their dangerous and criminal purpose by the influence of certain irregular meetings whose proceedings have tended to encourage and uphold the spirit of opposition by misrepresentations of the laws calculated to render them odious by endeavors to deter those who might be so disposed from accepting offices under them through fear of public resentment and of injury to person and property , and to compel those who had accepted such offices by actual violence to surrender or forbear the execution of them by circulating vindictive menaces against all those who should otherwise , directly or indirectly , aid in the execution of the said laws , or who , yielding to the dictates of conscience and to a sense of obligation , should themselves comply therewith by actually injuring and destroying the property of persons who were understood to have so complied by inflicting cruel and humiliating punishments upon private citizens for no other cause than that of appearing to be the friends of the laws by intercepting the public officers on the highways , abusing , assaulting , and otherwise ill treating them by going to their houses in the night , gaining admittance by force , taking away their papers , and committing other outrages , employing for these unwarrantable purposes the agency of armed banditti disguised in such manner as for the most part to escape discovery and Whereas the endeavors of the Legislature to obviate objections to the said laws by lowering the duties and by other alterations conducive to the convenience of those whom they immediately affect though they have given satisfaction in other quarters , and the endeavors of the executive officers to conciliate a compliance with the laws by explanations , by forbearance , and even by particular accommodations rounded on the suggestion of local considerations , have been disappointed of their effect by the machinations of persons whose industry to excite resistance has increased with every appearance of a disposition among the people to relax in their opposition and to acquiesce in the laws , insomuch that many persons in the said western parts of Pennsylvania have at length been hardy enough to perpetrate acts which I am advised amount to treason , being overt acts of levying war against the United States , the said persons having on the 16th and 17th July last past proceeded in arms on the second day amounting to several hundreds to the house of John Neville , inspector of the revenue for the fourth survey of the district of Pennsylvania having repeatedly attacked the said house with the persons therein , wounding some of them having seized David Lenox , marshal of the district of Pennsylvania , who previous thereto had been fired upon while in the execution of his duty by a party of armed men , detaining him for some time prisoner , till for the preservation of his life and the obtaining of his liberty he found it necessary to enter into stipulations to forbear the execution of certain official duties touching processes issuing out of a court of the United States and having finally obliged the said inspector of the said revenue and the said marshal from considerations of personal safety to fly from that part of the country , in order , by a circuitous route , to proceed to the seat of Government , avowing as the motives of these outrageous proceedings an intention to prevent by force of arms the execution of the said laws , to oblige the said inspector of the revenue to renounce his said office , to withstand by open violence the lawful authority of the Government of the United States , and to compel thereby an alteration in the measures of the Legislature and a repeal of the laws aforesaid and Whereas by a law of the United States entitled An act to provide calling forth the militia to execute the laws of the Union , suppress insurrections , and repel invasions , it is enacted that whenever the laws of the United States shall be opposed or the execution thereof obstructed in any State by combinations too powerful to be suppressed by the ordinary course of judicial proceedings or by the powers vested in the marshals by that act , the same being notified by an associate justice or the district judge , it shall be lawful for the President of the United States to call forth the militia of such State to suppress such combinations and to cause the laws to be duly executed . And if the militia of a State where such combinations may happen shall refuse or be insufficient to suppress the same , it shall be lawful for the President , if the Legislature of the United States shall not be in session , to call forth and employ such numbers of the militia of any other State or States most convenient thereto as may be necessary and the use of the militia so to be called forth may be continued , if necessary , until the expiration of thirty days after the commencement of the ensuing session Provided always , That whenever it may be necessary in the judgment of the President to use the military force hereby directed to be called forth , the President shall forthwith , and previous thereto , by proclamation , command such insurgents to disperse and retire peaceably to their respective abodes within a limited time and Whereas James Wilson , an associate justice , on the 4th instant , by writing under his hand , did from evidence which had been laid before him notify to me that in the counties of Washington and Allegany , in Pennsylvania , laws of the United States are opposed and the execution thereof obstructed by combinations too powerful to be suppressed by the ordinary course of judicial proceedings or by the powers vested in the marshal of that district and Whereas it is in my judgment necessary under the circumstances of the case to take measures for calling forth the militia in order to suppress the combinations aforesaid , and to cause the laws to be duly executed and I have accordingly determined so to do , feeling the deepest regret for the occasion , but withal the most solemn conviction that the essential interests of the Union demand it , that the very existence of Government and the fundamental principles of social order are materially involved in the issue , and that the patriotism and firmness of all good citizens are seriously called upon , as occasions may require , to aid in the effectual suppression of so fatal a spirit Wherefore , and in pursuance of the proviso above recited , George Washington , President of the United States , do hereby command all persons being insurgents as aforesaid , and all others whom it may concern , on or before the 1st day of September next to disperse and retire peaceably to their respective abodes . And I do moreover warn all persons whomsoever against aiding , abetting , or comforting the perpetrators of the aforesaid treasonable acts , and do require all officers and other citizens , according to their respective duties and the laws of the land , to exert their utmost endeavors to prevent and suppress such dangerous proceedings . In testimony whereof I have caused the seal of the United States of America to be affixed to these presents , and signed the same with my hand . Done at the city of Philadelphia , the 7th day of August , 1794 , and of the Independence of the United States of America the nineteenth . GWASHINGTON . By the President EDRANDOLPF<speech_sep>Beloved Cherokees , Many years have passed since the White people first came to America . In that long space of time many good men have considered how the condition of the Indian natives of the country might be improved and many attempts have been made to effect it . But , as we see at this day , all these attempts have been nearly fruitless . I also have thought much on this subject , and anxiously wished that the various Indian tribes , as well as their neighbours , the White people , might enjoy in abundance all the good things which make life comfortable and happy . I have considered how this could be done and have discovered but one path that could lead them to that desirable situation . In this path I wish all the Indian nations to walk . From the information received concerning you , my beloved Cherokees , I am inclined to hope that you are prepared to take this path and disposed to pursue it . It may seem a little difficult to enter but if you make the attempt , you will find every obstacle easy to be removed . Dinsmoor , my beloved agent to your nation , being here , I send you this talk by him . He will have it interpreted to you , and particularly explain my meaning . Beloved Cherokees , You now find that the game with which your woods once abounded , are growing scarce and you know when you cannot meet a deer or other game to kill , that you must remain hungry you know also when you can get no skins by hunting , that the traders will give you neither powder nor cloathing and you know that without other implements for tilling the ground than the hoe , you will continue to raise only scanty crops of corn . Hence you are sometimes exposed to suffer much from hunger and cold and as the game are lessening in numbers more and more , these sufferings will increase . And how are you to provide against them Listen to my words and you will know . My beloved Cherokees , Some among you already experience the advantage of keeping cattle and hogs let all keep them and increase their numbers , and you will ever have a plenty of meet . To these add sheep , and they will give you cloathing as well as food . Your lands are good and of great extent . By proper management you can raise live stock not only for your own wants , but to sell to the White people . By using the plow you can vastly increase your crops of corn . You can also grow wheat , which makes the best bread as well as other useful grain . To these you will easily add flax and cotton , which you may dispose of to the White people , or have it made up by your own women into cloathing for yourselves . Your wives and daughters can soon learn to spin and weave and to make this certain , I have directed Dinsmoor , to procure all the necessary apparatus for spinning and weaving , and to hire a woman to teach the use of them . He will also procure some plows and other implements of husbandry , with which to begin the improved cultivation of the ground which I recommend , and employ a fit person to shew you how they are to be used . I have further directed him to procure some cattle and sheep for the most prudent and industrious men , who shall be willing to exert themselves in tilling the ground and raising those useful animals . He is often to talk with you on these subjects , and give you all necessary information to promote your success . I must therefore desire you to listen to him and to follow his advice . I appointed him to dwell among you as the Agent of the United States , because I judged him to be a faithful man , ready to obey my instructions and to do you good . But the cares of the United States are not confined to your single nation . They extend to all the Indians dwelling on their borders . For which reason other agents are appointed and for the four southern nations there will be a general or principal agent who will visit all of them , for the purpose of maintaining peace and friendship among them and with the United States to superintend all their affairs and to assist the particular agents with each nation in doing the business assigned them . To such general or principal agent I must desire your careful attention . He will be one of our greatly beloved men . His whole time will be employed in contriving how to do you good , and you will therefore act wisely to follow his advice . The first general or principal agent will be Colonel Benjamin Hawkins , a man already known and respected by you . I have chosen him for this office because he is esteemed for a good man has a knowledge of Indian customs , and a particular love and friendship for all the Southern tribes . Beloved Cherokees , What I have recommended to you I am myself going to do . After a few moons are passed I shall leave the great town and retire to my farm . There I shall attend to the means of increasing my cattle , sheep and other useful animals to the growing of corn , wheat , and other grain , and to the employing of women in spinning and weaving all which I have recommended to you , that you may be as comfortable and happy as plenty of food , clothing and other good things can make you . Beloved Cherokees , When I have retired to my farm I shall hear of you and it will give me great pleasure to know that you have taken my advice , and are walking in the path which I have described . But before I retire , I shall speak to my beloved man , the Secretary of War , to get prepared some medals , to be given to such Cherokees as by following my advice shall best deserve them . For this purpose Dinsmoor is from time to time to visit every town in your nation . He will give instructions to those who desire to learn what I have recommended . He will see what improvements are made who are most industrious in raising cattle in growing corn , wheat , cotton and flax and in spinning and weaving and on those who excel these rewards are to be bestowed . Beloved Cherokees , The advice I here give you is important as it regards your nation but still more important as the event of the experiment made with you may determine the lot of many nations . If it succeeds , the beloved men of the United States will be encouraged to give the same assistance to all the Indian tribes within their boundaries . But if it should fail , they may think it vain to make any further attempts to better the condition of any Indian tribe for the richness of the soil and mildness of the air render your country highly favorable for the practice of what I have recommended . Beloved Cherokees , The wise men of the United States meet together once a year , to consider what will be for the good of all their people . The wise men of each separate state also meet together once or twice every year , to consult and do what is good for the people of their respective states . I have thought that a meeting of your wise men once or twice a year would be alike useful to you . Every town might send one or two of its wisest counsellors to talk together on the affairs of your nation , and to recommend to your people whatever they should think would be serviceable . The beloved agent of the United States would meet with them . He would give them information of those things which are found good by the white people , and which your situation will enable you to adopt . He would explain to them the laws made by the great council of the United States , for the preservation of peace for the protection of your lands for the security of your persons for your improvement in the arts of living , and for promoting your general welfare . If it should be agreeable to you that your wise men should hold such meetings , you will speak your mind to my beloved man , Dinsmoor , to be communicated to the President of the United States , who will give such directions as shall be proper . Beloved Cherokees , That this talk may be known to all your nation , and not forgotten , I have caused it to be printed , and directed one , signed by my own hand , to be lodged in each of your towns . The Interpreters will , on proper occasions , read and interpret the same to all your people . Beloved Cherokees , Having been informed that some of your chiefs wished to see me in Philadelphia , I have sent them word that I would receive a few of the most esteemed . I now repeat that I shall be glad to see a small number of your wisest chiefs but I shall not expect them till November . I shall take occasion to agree with them on the running of the boundary line between your lands and ours , agreeably to the treaty of Holston . I shall expect them to inform me what chiefs are to attend the running of this line , and I shall tell them whom I appoint to run it and the time and place of beginning may then be fixed . I now send my best wishes to the Cherokees , and pray the Great spirit to preserve them .<speech_sep>Fellow Citizens I am again called upon by the voice of my Country to execute the functions of its Chief Magistrate . When the occasion proper for it shall arrive , I shall endeavour to express the high sense I entertain of this distinguished honor , and of the confidence which has been reposed in me by the people of United America . Previous to the execution of any official act of the President , the Constitution requires an Oath of Office . This Oath I am now about to take , and in your presence , 56 that if it shall be found during my administration of the Government I have in any instance violated willingly , or knowingly , the injunction thereof , I may besides incurring Constitutional punishmt be subject to the upbraidings of all who are now witnesses of the present solemn Ceremony .<speech_sep>Whereas , from a hope that the combinations against the Constitution and laws of the United States , in certain of the Western counties of Pennsylvania , would yield to time and reflection , I thought it sufficient , in the first instance , rather to take measures for calling forth the militia than immediately to embody them but the moment is now come , when the overtures of forgiveness , with no other condition than a submission to law , have been only partially accepted when every form of conciliation not inconsistent with the being of Government has been adopted , without effect when the well disposed in those counties are unable by their influence and example to reclaim the wicked from their fury , and are compelled to associate in their own defence when the proffered lenity has been perversely misinterpreted into an apprehension that the citizens will march with reluctance when the opportunity of examining the serious consequences of a treasonable opposition has been employed in propagating principles of anarchy , endeavoring through emissaries to alienate the friends of order from its support , and inviting enemies to perpetrate similar acts of insurrection when it is manifest , that violence would continue to be exercised upon every attempt to enforce the laws when , therefore , Government is set at defiance , the contest being whether a small proportion of the United States shall dictate to the whole Union , and , at the expense of those who desire peace , indulge a desperate ambition Now , therefore , George Washington , President of the United States , in obedience to that high and irresistible duty , consigned to me by the Constitution , to take care that the laws be faithfully executed deploring that the American name should be sullied by the outrages of citizens on their own Government commiserating such as remain obstinate from delusion but resolved , in perfect reliance on that gracious Providence which so signally displays its goodness towards this country , to reduce the refractory to a due subordination to the laws do hereby declare and make known , that , with a satisfaction which can be equalled only by the merits of the militia summoned into service from the States of New Jersey , Pennsylvania , Maryland , and Virginia , I have received intelligence of their patriotic alacrity , in obeying the call of the present , though painful , yet commanding necessity that a force , which , according to every reasonable expectation , is adequate to the exigency , is already in motion to the scene of disaffection that those who have confided or shall confide in the protection of Government , shall meet full succor under the standard and from the arms of the United States that those who having offended against the laws have since entitled themselves to indemnity , will be treated with the most liberal good faith , if they shall not have forfeited their claim by any subsequent conduct , and that instructions are given accordingly . And I do , moreover , exhort all individuals , officers , and bodies of men , to contemplate with abhorrence the measures leading directly or indirectly to those crimes , which produce this resort to military coercion to check , in their respective spheres , the efforts of misguided or designing men to substitute their misrepresentation in the place of truth , and their discontents in the place of stable government and to call to mind , that as the people of the United States have been permitted , under the Divine favor , in perfect freedom , after solemn deliberation , in an enlightened age , to elect their own Government , so will their gratitude for this inestimable blessing be best distinguished by firm exertions to maintain the Constitution and the laws . And , lastly , I again warn all persons , whomsoever and whersoever , not to abet , aid , or comfort the insurgents aforesaid , as they will answer the contrary at their peril and I do also require all officers and other citizens , according to their several duties , as far as may be in their power , to bring under the cognizance of the law all offenders in the premises .<speech_sep>Fellow Citizens of the Senate and the House of Representatives Among the vicissitudes incident to life , no event could have filled me with greater anxieties than that of which the notification was transmitted by your order , and received on the fourteenth day of the present month . On the one hand , I was summoned by my Country , whose voice I can never hear but with veneration and love , from a retreat which I had chosen with the fondest predilection , and , in my flattering hopes , with an immutable decision , as the asylum of my declining years a retreat which was rendered every day more necessary as well as more dear to me , by the addition of habit to inclination , and of frequent interruptions in my health to the gradual waste committed on it by time . On the other hand , the magnitude and difficulty of the trust to which the voice of my Country called me , being sufficient to awaken in the wisest and most experienced of her citizens , a distrustful scrutiny into his qualification , could not but overwhelm with dispondence , one , who , inheriting inferior endowments from nature and unpractised in the duties of civil administration , ought to be peculiarly conscious of his own deficencies . In this conflict of emotions , all I dare aver , is , that it has been my faithful study to collect my duty from a just appreciation of every circumstance , by which it might be affected . All I dare hope , is , that , if in executing this task I have been too much swayed by a grateful remembrance of former instances , or by an affectionate sensibility to this transcendent proof , of the confidence of my fellow citizens and have thence too little consulted my incapacity as well as disinclination for the weighty and untried cares before me my error will be palliated by the motives which misled me , and its consequences be judged by my Country , with some share of the partiality in which they originated . Such being the impressions under which I have , in obedience to the public summons , repaired to the present station it would be peculiarly improper to omit in this first official Act , my fervent supplications to that Almighty Being who rules over the Universe , who presides in the Councils of Nations , and whose providential aids can supply every human defect , that his benediction may consecrate to the liberties and happiness of the People of the United States , a Government instituted by themselves for these essential purposes and may enable every instrument employed in its administration to execute with success , the functions allotted to his charge . In tendering this homage to the Great Author of every public and private good , I assure myself that it expresses your sentiments not less than my own nor those of my fellow citizens at large , less than either . No People can be bound to acknowledge and adore the invisible hand , which conducts the Affairs of men more than the People of the United States . Every step , by which they have advanced to the character of an independent nation , seems to have been distinguished by some token of providential agency . And in the important revolution just accomplished in the system of their United Government , the tranquil deliberations and voluntary consent of so many distinct communities , from which the event has resulted , cannot be compared with the means by which most Governments have been established , without some return of pious gratitude along with an humble anticipation of the future blessings which the past seem to presage . These reflections , arising out of the present crisis , have forced themselves too strongly on my mind to be suppressed . You will join with me I trust in thinking , that there are none under the influence of which , the proceedings of a new and free Government can more auspiciously commence . By the article establishing the Executive Department , it is made the duty of the President to recommend to your consideration , such measures as he shall judge necessary and expedient . The circumstances under which I now meet you , will acquit me from entering into that subject , farther than to refer to the Great Constitutional Charter under which you are assembled and which , in defining your powers , designates the objects to which your attention is to be given . It will be more consistent with those circumstances , and far more congenial with the feelings which actuate me , to substitute , in place of a recommendation of particular measures , the tribute that is due to the talents , the rectitude , and the patriotism which adorn the characters selected to devise and adopt them . In these honorable qualifications , I behold the surest pledges , that as on one side , no local prejudices , or attachments no seperate views , nor party animosities , will misdirect the comprehensive and equal eye which ought to watch over this great assemblage of communities and interests so , on another , that the foundations of our National policy will be laid in the pure and immutable principles of private morality and the pre eminence of a free Government , be exemplified by all the attributes which can win the affections of its Citizens , and command the respect of the world . I dwell on this prospect with every satisfaction which an ardent love for my Country can inspire since there is no truth more thoroughly established , than that there exists in the oeconomy and course of nature , an indissoluble union between virtue and happiness , between duty and advantage , between the genuine maxims of an honest and magnanimous policy , and the solid rewards of public prosperity and felicity Since we ought to be no less persuaded that the propitious smiles of Heaven , can never be expected on a nation that disregards the eternal rules of order and right , which Heaven itself has ordained And since the preservation of the sacred fire of liberty , and the destiny of the Republican model of Government , are justly considered as deeply , perhaps as finally staked , on the experiment entrusted to the hands of the American people . Besides the ordinary objects submitted to your care , it will remain with your judgment to decide , how far an exercise of the occasional power delegated by the Fifth article of the Constitution is rendered expedient at the present juncture by the nature of objections which have been urged against the System , or by the degree of inquietude which has given birth to them . Instead of undertaking particular recommendations on this subject , in which I could be guided by no lights derived from official opportunities , I shall again give way to my entire confidence in your discernment and pursuit of the public good For I assure myself that whilst you carefully avoid every alteration which might endanger the benefits of an United and effective Government , or which ought to await the future lessons of experience a reverence for the characteristic rights of freemen , and a regard for the public harmony , will sufficiently influence your deliberations on the question how far the former can be more impregnably fortified , or the latter be safely and advantageously promoted . To the preceeding observations I have one to add , which will be most properly addressed to the House of Representatives . It concerns myself , and will therefore be as brief as possible . When I was first honoured with a call into the Service of my Country , then on the eve of an arduous struggle for its liberties , the light in which I contemplated my duty required that I should renounce every pecuniary compensation . From this resolution I have in no instance departed . And being still under the impressions which produced it , I must decline as inapplicable to myself , any share in the personal emoluments , which may be indispensably included in a permanent provision for the Executive Department and must accordingly pray that the pecuniary estimates for the Station in which I am placed , may , during my continuance in it , be limited to such actual expenditures as the public good may be thought to require . Having thus imparted to you my sentiments , as they have been awakened by the occasion which brings us together , I shall take my present leave but not without resorting once more to the benign parent of the human race , in humble supplication that since he has been pleased to favour the American people , with opportunities for deliberating in perfect tranquility , and dispositions for deciding with unparellelled unanimity on a form of Government , for the security of their Union , and the advancement of their happiness so his divine blessing may be equally conspicuous in the enlarged views , the temperate consultations , and the wise measures on which the success of this Government must depend .<speech_sep>Whereas it is the duty of all Nations to acknowledge the providence of Almighty God , to obey his will , to be grateful for his benefits , and humbly to implore his protection and favor , and Whereas both Houses of Congress have by their joint Committee requested me to recommend to the People of the United States a day of public thanks giving and prayer to be observed by acknowledging with grateful hearts the many signal favors of Almighty God , especially by affording them an opportunity peaceably to establish a form of government for their safety and happiness . Now therefore I do recommend and assign Thursday the 26th day of November next to be devoted by the People of these States to the service of that great and glorious Being , who is the beneficent Author of all the good that was , that is , or that will be . That we may then all unite in rendering unto him our sincere and humble thanks , for his kind care and protection of the People of this country previous to their becoming a Nation , for the signal and manifold mercies , and the favorable interpositions of his providence , which we experienced in the course and conclusion of the late war , for the great degree of tranquillity , union , and plenty , which we have since enjoyed , for the peaceable and rational manner in which we have been enabled to establish constitutions of government for our safety and happiness , and particularly the national One now lately instituted , for the civil and religious liberty with which we are blessed , and the means we have of acquiring and diffusing useful knowledge and in general for all the great and various favors which he hath been pleased to confer upon us . And also that we may then unite in most humbly offering our prayers and supplications to the great Lord and Ruler of Nations and beseech him to pardon our national and other transgressions , to enable us all , whether in public or private stations , to perform our several and relative duties properly and punctually , to render our national government a blessing to all the People , by constantly being a government of wise , just and constitutional laws , discreetly and faithfully executed and obeyed , to protect and guide all Sovereigns and Nations especially such as have shown kindness unto us and to bless them with good government , peace , and concord . To promote the knowledge and practice of true religion and virtue , and the encrease of science among them and Us , and generally to grant unto all Mankind such a degree of temporal prosperity as he alone knows to be best .<speech_sep>Whereas the commissioners appointed by the President of the United States to confer with the citizens in the western counties of Pennsylvania during the late insurrection which prevailed therein , by their act and agreement bearing date the 2d day of September last , in pursuance of the powers in them vested , did promise and engage that if assurances of submission to the laws of the United States should be bona fide given by the citizens resident in the fourth survey of Pennsylvania , in the manner and within the time in the said act and agreement specified , a general pardon should be granted on the 10th day of July then next ensuing of all treasons and other indictable offenses against the United States committed within the said survey before the 22d day of August last , excluding therefrom , nevertheless , every person who should refuse or neglect to subscribe such assurance and engagement in manner aforesaid , or who should after such subscription violate the same , or will fully obstruct or attempt to obstruct the execution of the acts for raising a revenue on distilled spirits and stills , or be aiding or abetting therein and Whereas I have since thought proper to extend the said pardon to all persons guilty of the said treasons , misprisions of treasons , or otherwise concerned in the late insurrection within the survey aforesaid who have not since been indicted or convicted thereof , or of any other offense against the United States Therefore be it known that George Washington , President of the said United States , have granted , and by these presents do grant , a full , free , and entire pardon to all persons excepting as is hereinafter excepted of all treasons , misprisions of treason , and other indictable offenses against the United States committed within the fourth survey of Pennsylvania before the said 22d day of August last past , excepting and excluding therefrom , nevertheless , every person who refused or neglected to give and subscribe the said assurances in the manner aforesaid or having subscribed hath violated the same and now standeth indicted or convicted of any treason , misprision of treason , or other offense against the said United States , hereby remitting and releasing unto all persons , except as before excepted , all penalties incurred , or supposed to be incurred , for or on account of the premises .<speech_sep>