Fellow Citizens I shall not attempt to describe the grateful emotions which the new and very distinguished proof of the confidence of my fellow citizens , evinced by my reelection to this high trust , has excited in my bosom . The approbation which it announces of my conduct in the preceding term affords me a consolation which I shall profoundly feel through life . The general accord with which it has been expressed adds to the great and never ceasing obligations which it imposes . To merit the continuance of this good opinion , and to carry it with me into my retirement as the solace of advancing years , will be the object of my most zealous and unceasing efforts . Having no pretensions to the high and commanding claims of my predecessors , whose names are so much more conspicuously identified with our Revolution , and who contributed so preeminently to promote its success , I consider myself rather as the instrument than the cause of the union which has prevailed in the late election . In surmounting , in favor of my humble pretensions , the difficulties which so often produce division in like occurrences , it is obvious that other powerful causes , indicating the great strength and stability of our Union , have essentially contributed to draw you together . That these powerful causes exist , and that they are permanent , is my fixed opinion that they may produce a like accord in all questions touching , however remotely , the liberty , prosperity , and happiness of our country will always be the object of my most fervent prayers to the Supreme Author of All Good . In a government which is founded by the people , who possess exclusively the sovereignty , it seems proper that the person who may be placed by their suffrages in this high trust should declare on commencing its duties the principles on which he intends to conduct the Administration . If the person thus elected has served the preceding term , an opportunity is afforded him to review its principal occurrences and to give such further explanation respecting them as in his judgment may be useful to his constituents . The events of one year have influence on those of another , and , in like manner , of a preceding on the succeeding Administration . The movements of a great nation are connected in all their parts . If errors have been committed they ought to be corrected if the policy is sound it ought to be supported . It is by a thorough knowledge of the whole subject that our fellow citizens are enabled to judge correctly of the past and to give a proper direction to the future . Just before the commencement of the last term the United States had concluded a war with a very powerful nation on conditions equal and honorable to both parties . The events of that war are too recent and too deeply impressed on the memory of all to require a development from me . Our commerce had been in a great measure driven from the sea , our Atlantic and inland frontiers were invaded in almost every part the waste of life along our coast and on some parts of our inland frontiers , to the defense of which our gallant and patriotic citizens were called , was immense , in addition to which not less than 120 , 000 , 000 were added at its end to the public debt . As soon as the war had terminated , the nation , admonished by its events , resolved to place itself in a situation which should be better calculated to prevent the recurrence of a like evil , and , in case it should recur , to mitigate its calamities . With this view , after reducing our land force to the basis of a peace establishment , which has been further modified since , provision was made for the construction of fortifications at proper points through the whole extent of our coast and such an augmentation of our naval force as should be well adapted to both purposes . The laws making this provision were passed in 1815 and 1816 , and it has been since the constant effort of the Executive to carry them into effect . The advantage of these fortifications and of an augmented naval force in the extent contemplated , in a point of economy , has been fully illustrated by a report of the Board of Engineers and Naval Commissioners lately communicated to Congress , by which it appears that in an invasion by 20 , 000 men , with a correspondent naval force , in a campaign of six months only , the whole expense of the construction of the works would be defrayed by the difference in the sum necessary to maintain the force which would be adequate to our defense with the aid of those works and that which would be incurred without them . The reason of this difference is obvious . If fortifications are judiciously placed on our great inlets , as distant from our cities as circumstances will permit , they will form the only points of attack , and the enemy will be detained there by a small regular force a sufficient time to enable our militia to collect and repair to that on which the attack is made . A force adequate to the enemy , collected at that single point , with suitable preparation for such others as might be menaced , is all that would be requisite . But if there were no fortifications , then the enemy might go where he pleased , and , changing his position and sailing from place to place , our force must be called out and spread in vast numbers along the whole coast and on both sides of every bay and river as high up in each as it might be navigable for ships of war . By these fortifications , supported by our Navy , to which they would afford like support , we should present to other powers an armed front from Croix to the Sabine , which would protect in the event of war our whole coast and interior from invasion and even in the wars of other powers , in which we were neutral , they would be found eminently useful , as , by keeping their public ships at a distance from our cities , peace and order in them would be preserved and the Government be protected from insult . It need scarcely be remarked that these measures have not been resorted to in a spirit of hostility to other powers . Such a disposition does not exist toward any power . Peace and good will have been , and will hereafter be , cultivated with all , and by the most faithful regard to justice . They have been dictated by a love of peace , of economy , and an earnest desire to save the lives of our fellow citizens from that destruction and our country from that devastation which are inseparable from war when it finds us unprepared for it . It is believed , and experience has shown , that such a preparation is the best expedient that can be resorted to prevent war . I add with much pleasure that considerable progress has already been made in these measures of defense , and that they will be completed in a few years , considering the great extent and importance of the object , if the plan be zealously and steadily persevered in . The conduct of the Government in what relates to foreign powers is always an object of the highest importance to the nation . Its agriculture , commerce , manufactures , fisheries , revenue , in short , its peace , may all be affected by it . Attention is therefore due to this subject . At the period adverted to the powers of Europe , after having been engaged in long and destructive wars with each other , had concluded a peace , which happily still exists . Our peace with the power with whom we had been engaged had also been concluded . The war between Spain and the colonies in South America , which had commenced many years before , was then the only conflict that remained unsettled . This being a contest between different parts of the same community , in which other powers had not interfered , was not affected by their accommodations . This contest was considered at an early stage by my predecessor a civil war in which the parties were entitled to equal rights in our ports . This decision , the first made by any power , being formed on great consideration of the comparative strength and resources of the parties , the length of time , and successful opposition made by the colonies , and of all other circumstances on which it ought to depend , was in strict accord with the law of nations . Congress has invariably acted on this principle , having made no change in our relations with either party . Our attitude has therefore been that of neutrality between them , which has been maintained by the Government with the strictest impartiality . No aid has been afforded to either , nor has any privilege been enjoyed by the one which has not been equally open to the other party , and every exertion has been made in its power to enforce the execution of the laws prohibiting illegal equipments with equal rigor against both . By this equality between the parties their public vessels have been received in our ports on the same footing they have enjoyed an equal right to purchase and export arms , munitions of war , and every other supply , the exportation of all articles whatever being permitted under laws which were passed long before the commencement of the contest our citizens have traded equally with both , and their commerce with each has been alike protected by the Government . Respecting the attitude which it may be proper for the United States to maintain hereafter between the parties , I have no hesitation in stating it as my opinion that the neutrality heretofore observed should still be adhered to . From the change in the Government of Spain and the negotiation now depending , invited by the Cortes and accepted by the colonies , it may be presumed , that their differences will be settled on the terms proposed by the colonies . Should the war be continued , the United States , regarding its occurrences , will always have it in their power to adopt such measures respecting it as their honor and interest may require . Shortly after the general peace a band of adventurers took advantage of this conflict and of the facility which it afforded to establish a system of buccaneering in the neighboring seas , to the great annoyance of the commerce of the United States , and , as was represented , of that of other powers . Of this spirit and of its injurious bearing on the United States strong proofs were afforded by the establishment at Amelia Island , and the purposes to which it was made instrumental by this band in 1817 , and by the occurrences which took place in other parts of Florida in 1818 , the details of which in both instances are too well known to require to be now recited . I am satisfied had a less decisive course been adopted that the worst consequences would have resulted from it . We have seen that these checks , decisive as they were , were not sufficient to crush that piratical spirit . Many culprits brought within our limits have been condemned to suffer death , the punishment due to that atrocious crime . The decisions of upright and enlightened tribunals fall equally on all whose crimes subject them , by a fair interpretation of the law , to its censure . It belongs to the Executive not to suffer the executions under these decisions to transcend the great purpose for which punishment is necessary . The full benefit of example being secured , policy as well as humanity equally forbids that they should be carried further . I have acted on this principle , pardoning those who appear to have been led astray by ignorance of the criminality of the acts they had committed , and suffering the law to take effect on those only in whose favor no extenuating circumstances could be urged . Great confidence is entertained that the late treaty with Spain , which has been ratified by both the parties , and the ratifications whereof have been exchanged , has placed the relations of the two countries on a basis of permanent friendship . The provision made by it for such of our citizens as have claims on Spain of the character described will , it is presumed , be very satisfactory to them , and the boundary which is established between the territories of the parties westward of the Mississippi , heretofore in dispute , has , it is thought , been settled on conditions just and advantageous to both . But to the acquisition of Florida too much importance can not be attached . It secures to the United States a territory important in itself , and whose importance is much increased by its bearing on many of the highest interests of the Union . It opens to several of the neighboring States a free passage to the ocean , through the Province ceded , by several rivers , having their sources high up within their limits . It secures us against all future annoyance from powerful Indian tribes . It gives us several excellent harbors in the Gulf of Mexico for ships of war of the largest size . It covers by its position in the Gulf the Mississippi and other great waters within our extended limits , and thereby enables the United States to afford complete protection to the vast and very valuable productions of our whole Western country , which find a market through those streams . By a treaty with the British Government , bearing date on the 20th of October , 1818 , the convention regulating the commerce between the United States and Great Britain , concluded on the 3d of July , 1815 , which was about expiring , was revived and continued for the term of ten years from the time of its expiration . By that treaty , also , the differences which had arisen under the treaty of Ghent respecting the right claimed by the United States for their citizens to take and cure fish on the coast of His Britannic Majesty s dominions in America , with other differences on important interests , were adjusted to the satisfaction of both parties . No agreement has yet been entered into respecting the commerce between the United States and the British dominions in the West Indies and on this continent . The restraints imposed on that commerce by Great Britain , and reciprocated by the United States on a principle of defense , continue still in force . The negotiation with France for the regulation of the commercial relations between the two countries , which in the course of the last summer had been commenced at Paris , has since been transferred to this city , and will be pursued on the part of the United States in the spirit of conciliation , and with an earnest desire that it may terminate in an arrangement satisfactory to both parties . Our relations with the Barbary Powers are preserved in the same state and by the same means that were employed when I came into this office . As early as 1801 it was found necessary to send a squadron into the Mediterranean for the protection of our commerce , and no period has intervened , a short term excepted , when it was thought advisable to withdraw it . The great interests which the United States have in the Pacific , in commerce and in the fisheries , have also made it necessary to maintain a naval force there . In disposing of this force in both instances the most effectual measures in our power have been taken , without interfering with its other duties , for the suppression of the slave trade and of piracy in the neighboring seas . The situation of the United States in regard to their resources , the extent of their revenue , and the facility with which it is raised affords a most gratifying spectacle . The payment of nearly 67 , 000 , 000 of the public debt , with the great progress made in measures of defense and in other improvements of various kinds since the late war , are conclusive proofs of this extraordinary prosperity , especially when it is recollected that these expenditures have been defrayed without a burthen on the people , the direct tax and excise having been repealed soon after the conclusion of the late war , and the revenue applied to these great objects having been raised in a manner not to be felt . Our great resources therefore remain untouched for any purpose which may affect the vital interests of the nation . For all such purposes they are inexhaustible . They are more especially to be found in the virtue , patriotism , and intelligence of our fellow citizens , and in the devotion with which they would yield up by any just measure of taxation all their property in support of the rights and honor of their country . Under the present depression of prices , affecting all the productions of the country and every branch of industry , proceeding from causes explained on a former occasion , the revenue has considerably diminished , the effect of which has been to compel Congress either to abandon these great measures of defense or to resort to loans or internal taxes to supply the deficiency . On the presumption that this depression and the deficiency in the revenue arising from it would be temporary , loans were authorized for the demands of the last and present year . Anxious to relieve my fellow citizens in 1817 from every burthen which could be dispensed with , and the state of the Treasury permitting it , I recommended the repeal of the internal taxes , knowing that such relief was then peculiarly necessary in consequence of the great exertions made in the late war . I made that recommendation under a pledge that should the public exigencies require a recurrence to them at any time while I remained in this trust , I would with equal promptitude perform the duty which would then be alike incumbent on me . By the experiment now making it will be seen by the next session of Congress whether the revenue shall have been so augmented as to be adequate to all these necessary purposes . Should the deficiency still continue , and especially should it be probable that it would be permanent , the course to be pursued appears to me to be obvious . I am satisfied that under certain circumstances loans may be resorted to with great advantage . I am equally well satisfied , as a general rule , that the demands of the current year , especially in time of peace , should be provided for by the revenue of that year . I have never dreaded , nor have I ever shunned , in any situation in which I have been placed making appeals to the virtue and patriotism of my fellow citizens , well knowing that they could never be made in vain , especially in times of great emergency or for purposes of high national importance . Independently of the exigency of the case , many considerations of great weight urge a policy having in view a provision of revenue to meet to a certain extent the demands of the nation , without relying altogether on the precarious resource of foreign commerce . I am satisfied that internal duties and excises , with corresponding imposts on foreign articles of the same kind , would , without imposing any serious burdens on the people , enhance the price of produce , promote our manufactures , and augment the revenue , at the same time that they made it more secure and permanent . The care of the Indian tribes within our limits has long been an essential part of our system , but , unfortunately , it has not been executed in a manner to accomplish all the objects intended by it . We have treated them as independent nations , without their having any substantial pretensions to that rank . The distinction has flattered their pride , retarded their improvement , and in many instances paved the way to their destruction . The progress of our settlements westward , supported as they are by a dense population , has constantly driven them back , with almost the total sacrifice of the lands which they have been compelled to abandon . They have claims on the magnanimity and , I may add , on the justice of this nation which we must all feel . We should become their real benefactors we should perform the office of their Great Father , the endearing title which they emphatically give to the Chief Magistrate of our Union . Their sovereignty over vast territories should cease , in lieu of which the right of soil should be secured to each individual and his posterity in competent portions and for the territory thus ceded by each tribe some reasonable equivalent should be granted , to be vested in permanent funds for the support of civil government over them and for the education of their children , for their instruction in the arts of husbandry , and to provide sustenance for them until they could provide it for themselves . My earnest hope is that Congress will digest some plan , founded on these principles , with such improvements as their wisdom may suggest , and carry it into effect as soon as it may be practicable . Europe is again unsettled and the prospect of war increasing . Should the flame light up in any quarter , how far it may extend it is impossible to foresee . It is our peculiar felicity to be altogether unconnected with the causes which produce this menacing aspect elsewhere . With every power we are in perfect amity , and it is our interest to remain so if it be practicable on just conditions . I see no reasonable cause to apprehend variance with any power , unless it proceed from a violation of our maritime rights . In these contests , should they occur , and to whatever extent they may be carried , we shall be neutral but as a neutral power we have rights which it is our duty to maintain . For like injuries it will be incumbent on us to seek redress in a spirit of amity , in full confidence that , injuring none , none would knowingly injure us . For more imminent dangers we should be prepared , and it should always be recollected that such preparation adapted to the circumstances and sanctioned by the judgment and wishes of our constituents can not fail to have a good effect in averting dangers of every kind . We should recollect also that the season of peace is best adapted to these preparations . If we turn our attention , fellow citizens , more immediately to the internal concerns of our country , and more especially to those on which its future welfare depends , we have every reason to anticipate the happiest results . It is now rather more than forty four years since we declared our independence , and thirty seven since it was acknowledged . The talents and virtues which were displayed in that great struggle were a sure presage of all that has since followed . A people who were able to surmount in their infant state such great perils would be more competent as they rose into manhood to repel any which they might meet in their progress . Their physical strength would be more adequate to foreign danger , and the practice of self government , aided by the light of experience , could not fail to produce an effect equally salutary on all those questions connected with the internal organization . These favorable anticipations have been realized . In our whole system , national and State , we have shunned all the defects which unceasingly preyed on the vitals and destroyed the ancient Republics . In them there were distinct orders , a nobility and a people , or the people governed in one assembly . Thus , in the one instance there was a perpetual conflict between the orders in society for the ascendency , in which the victory of either terminated in the overthrow of the government and the ruin of the state in the other , in which the people governed in a body , and whose dominions seldom exceeded the dimensions of a county in one of our States , a tumultuous and disorderly movement permitted only a transitory existence . In this great nation there is but one order , that of the people , whose power , by a peculiarly happy improvement of the representative principle , is transferred from them , without impairing in the slightest degree their sovereignty , to bodies of their own creation , and to persons elected by themselves , in the full extent necessary for all the purposes of free , enlightened and efficient government . The whole system is elective , the complete sovereignty being in the people , and every officer in every department deriving his authority from and being responsible to them for his conduct . Our career has corresponded with this great outline . Perfection in our organization could not have been expected in the outset either in the National or State Governments or in tracing the line between their respective powers . But no serious conflict has arisen , nor any contest but such as are managed by argument and by a fair appeal to the good sense of the people , and many of the defects which experience had clearly demonstrated in both Governments have been remedied . By steadily pursuing this course in this spirit there is every reason to believe that our system will soon attain the highest degree of perfection of which human institutions are capable , and that the movement in all its branches will exhibit such a degree of order and harmony as to command the admiration and respect of the civilized world . Our physical attainments have not been less eminent . Twenty five years ago the river Mississippi was shut up and our Western brethren had no outlet for their commerce . What has been the progress since that time The river has not only become the property of the United States from its source to the ocean , with all its tributary streams with the exception of the upper part of the Red River only , but Louisiana , with a fair and liberal boundary on the western side and the Floridas on the eastern , have been ceded to us . The United States now enjoy the complete and uninterrupted sovereignty over the whole territory from Croix to the Sabine . New States , settled from among ourselves in this and in other parts , have been admitted into our Union in equal participation in the national sovereignty with the original States . Our population has augmented in an astonishing degree and extended in every direction . We now , fellow citizens , comprise within our limits the dimensions and faculties of a great power under a Government possessing all the energies of any government ever known to the Old World , with an utter incapacity to oppress the people . Entering with these views the office which I have just solemnly sworn to execute with fidelity and to the utmost of my ability , I derive great satisfaction from a knowledge that I shall be assisted in the several Departments by the very enlightened and upright citizens from whom I have received so much aid in the preceding term . With full confidence in the continuance of that candor and generous indulgence from my fellow citizens at large which I have heretofore experienced , and with a firm reliance on the protection of Almighty God , I shall forthwith commence the duties of the high trust to which you have called me .<speech_sep>I should be destitute of feeling if I was not deeply affected by the strong proof which my fellow citizens have given me of their confidence in calling me to the high office whose functions I am about to assume . As the expression of their good opinion of my conduct in the public service , I derive from it a gratification which those who are conscious of having done all that they could to merit it can alone feel . My sensibility is increased by a just estimate of the importance of the trust and of the nature and extent of its duties , with the proper discharge of which the highest interests of a great and free people are intimately connected . Conscious of my own deficiency , I cannot enter on these duties without great anxiety for the result . From a just responsibility I will never shrink , calculating with confidence that in my best efforts to promote the public welfare my motives will always be duly appreciated and my conduct be viewed with that candor and indulgence which I have experienced in other stations . In commencing the duties of the chief executive office it has been the practice of the distinguished men who have gone before me to explain the principles which would govern them in their respective Administrations . In following their venerated example my attention is naturally drawn to the great causes which have contributed in a principal degree to produce the present happy condition of the United States . They will best explain the nature of our duties and shed much light on the policy which ought to be pursued in future . From the commencement of our Revolution to the present day almost forty years have elapsed , and from the establishment of this Constitution twenty eight . Through this whole term the Government has been what may emphatically be called self government . And what has been the effect To whatever object we turn our attention , whether it relates to our foreign or domestic concerns , we find abundant cause to felicitate ourselves in the excellence of our institutions . During a period fraught with difficulties and marked by very extraordinary events the United States have flourished beyond example . Their citizens individually have been happy and the nation prosperous . Under this Constitution our commerce has been wisely regulated with foreign nations and between the States new States have been admitted into our Union our territory has been enlarged by fair and honorable treaty , and with great advantage to the original States the States , respectively protected by the National Government under a mild , parental system against foreign dangers , and enjoying within their separate spheres , by a wise partition of power , a just proportion of the sovereignty , have improved their police , extended their settlements , and attained a strength and maturity which are the best proofs of wholesome laws well administered . And if we look to the condition of individuals what a proud spectacle does it exhibit On whom has oppression fallen in any quarter of our Union Who has been deprived of any right of person or property Who restrained from offering his vows in the mode which he prefers to the Divine Author of his being It is well known that all these blessings have been enjoyed in their fullest extent and I add with peculiar satisfaction that there has been no example of a capital punishment being inflicted on anyone for the crime of high treason . Some who might admit the competency of our Government to these beneficent duties might doubt it in trials which put to the test its strength and efficiency as a member of the great community of nations . Here too experience has afforded us the most satisfactory proof in its favor . Just as this Constitution was put into action several of the principal States of Europe had become much agitated and some of them seriously convulsed . Destructive wars ensued , which have of late only been terminated . In the course of these conflicts the United States received great injury from several of the parties . It was their interest to stand aloof from the contest , to demand justice from the party committing the injury , and to cultivate by a fair and honorable conduct the friendship of all . War became at length inevitable , and the result has shown that our Government is equal to that , the greatest of trials , under the most unfavorable circumstances . Of the virtue of the people and of the heroic exploits of the Army , the Navy , and the militia I need not speak . Such , then , is the happy Government under which we live a Government adequate to every purpose for which the social compact is formed a Government elective in all its branches , under which every citizen may by his merit obtain the highest trust recognized by the Constitution which contains within it no cause of discord , none to put at variance one portion of the community with another a Government which protects every citizen in the full enjoyment of his rights , and is able to protect the nation against injustice from foreign powers . Other considerations of the highest importance admonish us to cherish our Union and to cling to the Government which supports it . Fortunate as we are in our political institutions , we have not been less so in other circumstances on which our prosperity and happiness essentially depend . Situated within the temperate zone , and extending through many degrees of latitude along the Atlantic , the United States enjoy all the varieties of climate , and every production incident to that portion of the globe . Penetrating internally to the Great Lakes and beyond the sources of the great rivers which communicate through our whole interior , no country was ever happier with respect to its domain . Blessed , too , with a fertile soil , our produce has always been very abundant , leaving , even in years the least favorable , a surplus for the wants of our fellow men in other countries . Such is our peculiar felicity that there is not a part of our Union that is not particularly interested in preserving it . The great agricultural interest of the nation prospers under its protection . Local interests are not less fostered by it . Our fellow citizens of the North engaged in navigation find great encouragement in being made the favored carriers of the vast productions of the other portions of the United States , while the inhabitants of these are amply recompensed , in their turn , by the nursery for seamen and naval force thus formed and reared up for the support of our common rights . Our manufactures find a generous encouragement by the policy which patronizes domestic industry , and the surplus of our produce a steady and profitable market by local wants in less favored parts at home . Such , then , being the highly favored condition of our country , it is the interest of every citizen to maintain it . What are the dangers which menace us If any exist they ought to be ascertained and guarded against . In explaining my sentiments on this subject it may be asked , What raised us to the present happy state How did we accomplish the Revolution How remedy the defects of the first instrument of our Union , by infusing into the National Government sufficient power for national purposes , without impairing the just rights of the States or affecting those of individuals How sustain and pass with glory through the late war The Government has been in the hands of the people . To the people , therefore , and to the faithful and able depositaries of their trust is the credit due . Had the people of the United States been educated in different principles , had they been less intelligent , less independent , or less virtuous , can it be believed that we should have maintained the same steady and consistent career or been blessed with the same success While , then , the constituent body retains its present sound and healthful state everything will be safe . They will choose competent and faithful representatives for every department . It is only when the people become ignorant and corrupt , when they degenerate into a populace , that they are incapable of exercising the sovereignty . Usurpation is then an easy attainment , and an usurper soon found . The people themselves become the willing instruments of their own debasement and ruin . Let us , then , look to the great cause , and endeavor to preserve it in full force . Let us by all wise and constitutional measures promote intelligence among the people as the best means of preserving our liberties . Dangers from abroad are not less deserving of attention . Experiencing the fortune of other nations , the United States may be again involved in war , and it may in that event be the object of the adverse party to overset our Government , to break our Union , and demolish us as a nation . Our distance from Europe and the just , moderate , and pacific policy of our Government may form some security against these dangers , but they ought to be anticipated and guarded against . Many of our citizens are engaged in commerce and navigation , and all of them are in a certain degree dependent on their prosperous state . Many are engaged in the fisheries . These interests are exposed to invasion in the wars between other powers , and we should disregard the faithful admonition of experience if we did not expect it . We must support our rights or lose our character , and with it , perhaps , our liberties . A people who fail to do it can scarcely be said to hold a place among independent nations . National honor is national property of the highest value . The sentiment in the mind of every citizen is national strength . It ought therefore to be cherished . To secure us against these dangers our coast and inland frontiers should be fortified , our Army and Navy , regulated upon just principles as to the force of each , be kept in perfect order , and our militia be placed on the best practicable footing . To put our extensive coast in such a state of defense as to secure our cities and interior from invasion will be attended with expense , but the work when finished will be permanent , and it is fair to presume that a single campaign of invasion by a naval force superior to our own , aided by a few thousand land troops , would expose us to greater expense , without taking into the estimate the loss of property and distress of our citizens , than would be sufficient for this great work . Our land and naval forces should be moderate , but adequate to the necessary purposes the former to garrison and preserve our fortifications and to meet the first invasions of a foreign foe , and , while constituting the elements of a greater force , to preserve the science as well as all the necessary implements of war in a state to be brought into activity in the event of war the latter , retained within the limits proper in a state of peace , might aid in maintaining the neutrality of the United States with dignity in the wars of other powers and in saving the property of their citizens from spoliation . In time of war , with the enlargement of which the great naval resources of the country render it susceptible , and which should be duly fostered in time of peace , it would contribute essentially , both as an auxiliary of defense and as a powerful engine of annoyance , to diminish the calamities of war and to bring the war to a speedy and honorable termination . But it ought always to be held prominently in view that the safety of these States and of everything dear to a free people must depend in an eminent degree on the militia . Invasions may be made too formidable to be resisted by any land and naval force which it would comport either with the principles of our Government or the circumstances of the United States to maintain . In such cases recourse must be had to the great body of the people , and in a manner to produce the best effect . It is of the highest importance , therefore , that they be so organized and trained as to be prepared for any emergency . The arrangement should be such as to put at the command of the Government the ardent patriotism and youthful vigor of the country . If formed on equal and just principles , it can not be oppressive . It is the crisis which makes the pressure , and not the laws which provide a remedy for it . This arrangement should be formed , too , in time of peace , to be the better prepared for war . With such an organization of such a people the United States have nothing to dread from foreign invasion . At its approach an overwhelming force of gallant men might always be put in motion . Other interests of high importance will claim attention , among which the improvement of our country by roads and canals , proceeding always with a constitutional sanction , holds a distinguished place . By thus facilitating the intercourse between the States we shall add much to the convenience and comfort of our fellow citizens , much to the ornament of the country , and , what is of greater importance , we shall shorten distances , and , by making each part more accessible to and dependent on the other , we shall bind the Union more closely together . Nature has done so much for us by intersecting the country with so many great rivers , bays , and lakes , approaching from distant points so near to each other , that the inducement to complete the work seems to be peculiarly strong . A more interesting spectacle was perhaps never seen than is exhibited within the limits of the United States a territory so vast and advantageously situated , containing objects so grand , so useful , so happily connected in all their parts Our manufacturers will likewise require the systematic and fostering care of the Government . Possessing as we do all the raw materials , the fruit of our own soil and industry , we ought not to depend in the degree we have done on supplies from other countries . While we are thus dependent the sudden event of war , unsought and unexpected , can not fail to plunge us into the most serious difficulties . It is important , too , that the capital which nourishes our manufacturers should be domestic , as its influence in that case instead of exhausting , as it may do in foreign hands , would be felt advantageously on agriculture and every other branch of industry . Equally important is it to provide at home a market for our raw materials , as by extending the competition it will enhance the price and protect the cultivator against the casualties incident to foreign markets . With the Indian tribes it is our duty to cultivate friendly relations and to act with kindness and liberality in all our transactions . Equally proper is it to persevere in our efforts to extend to them the advantages of civilization . The great amount of our revenue and the flourishing state of the Treasury are a full proof of the competency of the national resources for any emergency , as they are of the willingness of our fellow citizens to bear the burdens which the public necessities require . The vast amount of vacant lands , the value of which daily augments , forms an additional resource of great extent and duration . These resources , besides accomplishing every other necessary purpose , put it completely in the power of the United States to discharge the national debt at an early period . Peace is the best time for improvement and preparation of every kind it is in peace that our commerce flourishes most , that taxes are most easily paid , and that the revenue is most productive . The Executive is charged officially in the Departments under it with the disbursement of the public money , and is responsible for the faithful application of it to the purposes for which it is raised . The Legislature is the watchful guardian over the public purse . It is its duty to see that the disbursement has been honestly made . To meet the requisite responsibility every facility should be afforded to the Executive to enable it to bring the public agents intrusted with the public money strictly and promptly to account . Nothing should be presumed against them but if , with the requisite facilities , the public money is suffered to lie long and uselessly in their hands , they will not be the only defaulters , nor will the demoralizing effect be confined to them . It will evince a relaxation and want of tone in the Administration which will be felt by the whole community . I shall do all I can to secure economy and fidelity in this important branch of the Administration , and I doubt not that the Legislature will perform its duty with equal zeal . A thorough examination should be regularly made , and I will promote it . It is particularly gratifying to me to enter on the discharge of these duties at a time when the United States are blessed with peace . It is a state most consistent with their prosperity and happiness . It will be my sincere desire to preserve it , so far as depends on the Executive , on just principles with all nations , claiming nothing unreasonable of any and rendering to each what is its due . Equally gratifying is it to witness the increased harmony of opinion which pervades our Union . Discord does not belong to our system . Union is recommended as well by the free and benign principles of our Government , extending its blessings to every individual , as by the other eminent advantages attending it . The American people have encountered together great dangers and sustained severe trials with success . They constitute one great family with a common interest . Experience has enlightened us on some questions of essential importance to the country . The progress has been slow , dictated by a just reflection and a faithful regard to every interest connected with it . To promote this harmony in accord with the principles of our republican Government and in a manner to give them the most complete effect , and to advance in all other respects the best interests of our Union , will be the object of my constant and zealous exertions . Never did a government commence under auspices so favorable , nor ever was success so complete . If we look to the history of other nations , ancient or modern , we find no example of a growth so rapid , so gigantic , of a people so prosperous and happy . In contemplating what we have still to perform , the heart of every citizen must expand with joy when he reflects how near our Government has approached to perfection that in respect to it we have no essential improvement to make that the great object is to preserve it in the essential principles and features which characterize it , and that is to be done by preserving the virtue and enlightening the minds of the people and as a security against foreign dangers to adopt such arrangements as are indispensable to the support of our independence , our rights and liberties . If we persevere in the career in which we have advanced so far and in the path already traced , we can not fail , under the favor of a gracious Providence , to attain the high destiny which seems to await us . In the Administrations of the illustrious men who have preceded me in this high station , with some of whom I have been connected by the closest ties from early life , examples are presented which will always be found highly instructive and useful to their successors . From these I shall endeavor to derive all the advantages which they may afford . Of my immediate predecessor , under whom so important a portion of this great and successful experiment has been made , I shall be pardoned for expressing my earnest wishes that he may long enjoy in his retirement the affections of a grateful country , the best reward of exalted talents and the most faithful and meritorious service . Relying on the aid to be derived from the other departments of the Government , I enter on the trust to which I have been called by the suffrages of my fellow citizens with my fervent prayers to the Almighty that He will be graciously pleased to continue to us that protection which He has already so conspicuously displayed in our favor .<speech_sep>Fellow citizens of the Senate and of the House of Representatives At no period of our political existence had we so much cause to felicitate ourselves at the prosperous and happy condition of our country . The abundant fruits of the earth have filled it with plenty . An extensive and profitable commerce has greatly augmented our revenue . The public credit has attained an extraordinary elevation . Our preparations for defense in case of future wars , from which , by the experience of all nations , we ought not to expect to be exempted , are advancing under a well digested system with all the dispatch which so important a work will admit . Our free government , founded on the interest and affections of the people , has gained and is daily gaining strength . Local jealousies are rapidly yielding to more generous , enlarged , and enlightened views of national policy . For advantages so numerous and highly important it is our duty to unite in grateful acknowledgements to that Omnipotent Being from whom they are derived , and in unceasing prayer that He will endow us with virtue and strength to maintain and hand them down in their utmost purity to our latest posterity . I have the satisfaction to inform you that an arrangement which had been commenced by my predecessor with the British government for the reduction of the naval force by Great Britain and the United States on the lakes has been concluded , by which it is provided that neither party shall keep in service on Lake Champlain more than one vessel , on Lake Ontario more than one , and on Lake Erie and the upper lakes more than two , to be armed each with one cannon only , and that all the other armed vessels of both parties , of which an exact list is interchanged , shall be dismantled . It is also agreed that the force retained shall be restricted in its duty to the internal purposes of each party , and that the arrangement shall remain in force until six months shall have expired after notice given by one of the parties to the other of its desire that it should terminate . By this arrangement useless expense on both sides and , what is of still greater importance , the danger of collision between armed vessels in those inland waters , which was great , is prevented . I have the satisfaction also to state that the commissioners under the fourth article of the Treaty of Ghent , to whom it was referred to decide to which party the several islands in the bay of Passamaquoddy belonged under the treaty of 1783 , have agreed in a report , by which all the islands in the possession of each party before the late war have been decreed to it . The commissioners acting under the other articles of the Treaty of Ghent for the settlement of boundaries have also been engaged in the discharge of their respective duties , but have not yet completed them . The difference which arose between the two governments under that treaty respecting the right of the to take and cure fish on the coast of the British provinces north of our limits , which had been secured by the treaty of 1783 , is still in negotiation . The proposition made by this government to extend to the colonies of GB the principle of the convention of London , by which the commerce between the ports of the United States and British ports in Europe had been placed on a footing of equality , has been declined by the British government . This subject having been thus amicably discussed between the two governments , and it appearing that the British government is unwilling to depart from its present regulations , it remains for Congress to decide whether they will make any other regulations in consequence thereof for the protection and improvement of our navigation . The negotiation with Spain for spoliations on our commerce and the settlement of boundaries remains essentially in the state it held by the communications that were made to Congress by my predecessor . It has been evidently the policy of the Spanish government to keep the negotiation suspended , and in this the United States have acquiesced , from an amicable disposition toward Spain and in the expectation that her government would , from a sense of justice , finally accede to such an arrangement as would be equal between the parties . A disposition has been lately shown by the Spanish government to move in the negotiation , which has been met by this government , and should the conciliatory and friendly policy which has invariably guided our councils be reciprocated , a just and satisfactory arrangement may be expected . It is proper , however , to remark that no proposition has yet been made from which such a result can be presumed . It was anticipated at an early stage that the contest between Spain and the colonies would become highly interesting to the United States . It was natural that our citizens should sympathize in events which affected their neighbors . It seemed probable also that the prosecution of the conflict along our coast and in contiguous countries would occasionally interrupt our commerce and otherwise affect the persons and property of our citizens . These anticipations have been realized . Such injuries have been received from persons acting under authority of both the parties , and for which redress has in most instances been withheld . Through every stage of the conflict the United States have maintained an impartial neutrality , giving aid to neither of the parties in men , money , ships , or munitions of war . They have regarded the contest not in the light of an ordinary insurrection or rebellion , but as a civil war between parties nearly equal , having as to neutral powers equal rights . Our ports have been open to both , and every article the fruit of our soil or of the industry of our citizens which either was permitted to take has been equally free to the other . Should the colonies establish their independence , it is proper now to state that this government neither seeks nor would accept from them any advantage in commerce or otherwise which will not be equally open to all other nations . The colonies will in that event become independent states , free from any obligation to or connection with us which it may not then be their interest to form on the basis of a fair reciprocity . In the summer of the present year an expedition was set on foot against East Florida by persons claiming to act under the authority of some of the colonies , who took possession of Amelia Island , at the mouth of the Marys River , near the boundary of the State of Georgia . As this Province lies eastward of the Mississippi , and is bounded by the United States and the ocean on every side , and has been a subject of negotiation with the government of Spain as an indemnity for losses by spoliation or in exchange for territory of equal value westward of the Mississippi , a fact well known to the world , it excited surprise that any countenance should be given to this measure by any of the colonies . As it would be difficult to reconcile it with the friendly relations existing between the United States and the colonies , a doubt was entertained whether it had been authorized by them , or any of them . This doubt has gained strength by the circumstances which have unfolded themselves in the prosecution of the enterprise , which have marked it as a mere private , unauthorized adventure . Projected and commenced with an incompetent force , reliance seems to have been placed on what might be drawn , in defiance of our laws , from within our limits and of late , as their resources have failed , it has assumed a more marked character of unfriendliness to us , the island being made a channel for the illicit introduction of slaves from Africa into the United States , an asylum for fugitive slaves from the neighboring states , and a port for smuggling of every kind . A similar establishment was made at an earlier period by persons of the same description in the Gulf of Mexico at a place called Galvezton , within the limits of the United States , as we contend , under the cession of Louisiana . This enterprise has been marked in a more signal manner by all the objectionable circumstances which characterized the other , and more particularly by the equipment of privateers which have annoyed our commerce , and by smuggling . These establishments , if ever sanctioned by any authority whatever , which is not believed , have abused their trust and forfeited all claim to consideration . A just regard for the rights and interests of the United States required that they should be suppressed , and orders have been accordingly issued to that effect . The imperious considerations which produced this measure will be explained to the parties whom it may in any degree concern . To obtain correct information on every subject in which the United States are interested to inspire just sentiments in all persons in authority , on either side , of our friendly disposition so far as it may comport with an impartial neutrality , and to secure proper respect to our commerce in every port and from every flag , it has been thought proper to send a ship of war with three distinguished citizens along the southern coast with these purpose . With the existing authorities , with those in the possession of and exercising the sovereignty , must the communication be held from them alone can redress for past injuries committed by persons acting under them be obtained by them alone can the commission of the like in future be prevented . Our relations with the other powers of Europe have experienced no essential change since the last session . In our intercourse with each due attention continues to be paid to the protection of our commerce , and to every other object in which the United States are interested . A strong hope is entertained that , by adhering to the maxims of a just , a candid , and friendly policy , we may long preserve amicable relations with all the powers of Europe on conditions advantageous and honorable to our country . With the Barbary states and the Indian tribes our pacific relations have been preserved . In calling your attention to the internal concerns of our country the view which they exhibit is peculiarly gratifying . The payments which have been made into the Treasury show the very productive state of the public revenue . After satisfying the appropriations made by law for the support of the civil government and of the military and naval establishments , embracing suitable provision for fortifications and for the gradual increase of the Navy , paying the interest of the public debt , and extinguishing more than 18 million of the principal , within the present year , it is estimated that a balance of more than 6 million will remain in the Treasury on the first day of January applicable to the current service of the ensuing year . The payments into the Treasury during the year 1818 on account of imposts and tonnage , resulting principally from duties which have accrued in the present year , may be fairly estimated at 20 million the internal revenues at 2 . 5 million the public lands at 1 . 5 million bank dividends and incidental receipts at 500 , 000 making in the whole 24 . 5 million . The annual permanent expenditure for the support of the civil government and of the Army and Navy , as now established by law , amounts to 11 . 8 million , and for the sinking fund to 10 million , making in the whole 21 . 8 million , leaving an annual excess of revenue beyond the expenditure of 2 . 7 million , exclusive of the balance estimated to be in the Treasury on the first day of January , 1818 . In the present state of the Treasury the whole of the Louisiana debt may be redeemed in the year 1819 , after which , if the public debt continues as it now is , above par , there will be annually about 5 million of the sinking fund unexpended until the year 1825 , when the loan of 1812 and the stock created by funding Treasury notes will be redeemable . It is also estimated that the Mississippi stock will be discharged during the year 1819 from the proceeds of the public lands assigned to that object , after which the receipts from those lands will annually add to the public revenue the sum of 1 . 5 million , making the permanent annual revenue amount to 26 million , and leaving an annual excess of revenue after the year 1819 beyond the permanent authorized expenditure of more than 4 million . By the last returns to the Department of War the militia force of the several states may be estimated at 800 , 000 men infantry , artillery , and cavalry . Great part of this force is armed , and measures are taken to arm the whole . An improvement in the organization and discipline of the militia is one of the great objects which claims the unremitted attention of Congress . The regular force amounts nearly to the number required by law , and is stationed along the Atlantic and inland frontiers . Of the naval force it has been necessary to maintain strong squadrons in the Mediterranean and in the Gulf of Mexico . From several of the Indian tribes inhabiting the country bordering on Lake Erie purchases have been made of lands on conditions very favorable to the United States , and , as it is presumed , not less so to the tribes themselves . By these purchases the Indian title , with moderate reservations , has been extinguished to the whole of the land within the limits of the state of Ohio , and to a part of that in the Michigan Territory and of the state of Indiana . From the Cherokee tribe a tract has been purchased in the state of Georgia and an arrangement made by which , in exchange for lands beyond the Mississippi , a great part , if not the whole , of the land belonging to that tribe eastward of that river in the states of North Carolina , Georgia , and Tennessee , and in the Alabama Territory will soon be acquired . By these acquisitions , and others that may reasonably be expected soon to follow , we shall be enabled to extend our settlements from the inhabited parts of the state of Ohio along Lake Erie into the Michigan Territory , and to connect our settlements by degrees through the state of Indiana and the Illinois Territory to that of Missouri . A similar and equally advantageous effect will soon be produced to the south , through the whole extent of the states and territory which border on the waters emptying into the Mississippi and the Mobile . In this progress , which the rights of nature demand and nothing can prevent , marking a growth rapid and gigantic , it is our duty to make new efforts for the preservation , improvement , and civilization of the native inhabitants . The hunter state can exist only in the vast uncultivated desert . It yields to the more dense and compact form and greater force of civilized population and of right it ought to yield , for the earth was given to mankind to support the greatest number of which it is capable , and no tribe or people have a right to withhold from the wants of others more than is necessary for their own support and comfort . It is gratifying to know that the reservations of land made by the treaties with the tribes on Lake Erie were made with a view to individual ownership among them and to the cultivation of the soil by all , and that an annual stipend has been pledged to supply their other wants . It will merit the consideration of Congress whether other provision not stipulated by treaty ought to be made for these tribes and for the advancement of the liberal and humane policy of the United States toward all the tribes within our limits , and more particularly for their improvement in the arts of civilized life . Among the advantages incident to these purchases , and to those which have preceded , the security which may thereby be afforded to our inland frontiers is peculiarly important . With a strong barrier , consisting of our own people , thus planted on the Lakes , the Mississippi , and the Mobile , with the protection to be derived from the regular force , Indian hostilities , if they do not altogether cease , will henceforth lose their terror . Fortifications in those quarters to any extent will not be necessary , and the expense of attending them may be saved . A people accustomed to the use of firearms only , as the Indian tribes are , will shun even moderate works which are defended by cannon . Great fortifications will therefore be requisite only in future along the coast and at some points in the interior connected with it . On these will the safety of our towns and the commerce of our great rivers , from the Bay of Fundy to the Mississippi , depend . On these , therefore , should the utmost attention , skill , and labor be bestowed . A considerable and rapid augmentation in the value of all the public lands , proceeding from these and other obvious cases , may henceforward be expected . The difficulties attending early emigrations will be dissipated even in the most remote parts . Several new states have been admitted into our Union to the west and south , and territorial governments , happily organized , established over every other portion in which there is vacant land for sale . In terminating Indian hostilities , as must soon be done , in a formidable shape at least , the emigration , which has heretofore been great , will probably increase , and the demand for land and the augmentation in its value be in like proportion . The great increase of our population throughout the union will alone produce an important effect , and in no quarter will it be so sensibly felt as in those in contemplation . The public lands are a public stock , which ought to be disposed of to the best advantage for the nation . The nation should therefore derive the profit proceeding from the continual rise in their value . Every encouragement should be given to the emigrants consistent with a fair competition between them , but that competition should operate in the first sale to the advantage of the nation rather than of individuals . Great capitalists will derive the benefit incident to their superior wealth under any mode of sale which may be adopted , but if , looking forward to the rise in the value of the public lands , they should have the opportunity of amassing at a low price vast bodies in their hands , the profit will accrue to them and not to the public . They would also have the power in that degree to control the emigration and settlement in such a manner as their opinion of their respective interests might dictate . I submit this subject to the consideration of Congress , that such further provision may be made in the sale of the public lands , with a view to the public interest , should any be deemed expedient , as in their judgment may be best adapted to the object . When we consider the vast extent of territory within the United States , the great amount and value of its productions , the connection of its parts , and other circumstances on which their prosperity and happiness depend , we can not fail to entertain a high sense of the advantage to be derived from the facility which may be afforded in the intercourse between them by means of good roads and canals . Never did a country of such vast extent offer equal inducements to improvements of this kind , nor ever were consequences of such magnitude involved in them . As this subject was acted on by Congress at the last session , and there may be a disposition to revive it at the present , I have brought it into view for the purpose of communicating my sentiments on a very important circumstance connected with it with that freedom and candor which a regard for the public interest and a proper respect for Congress require . A difference of opinion has existed from the first formation of our Constitution to the present time among our most enlightened and virtuous citizens respecting the right of Congress to establish such a system of improvement . Taking into view the trust with which I am now honored , it would be improper after what has passed that this discussion should be revived with an uncertainty of my opinion respecting the right . Disregarding early impressions I have bestowed on the subject all the deliberation which its great importance and a just sense of my duty required , and the result is a settled conviction in my mind that Congress do not possess the right . It is not contained in any of the specified powers granted to Congress , nor can I consider it incidental to or a necessary means , viewed on the most liberal scale , for carrying into effect any of the powers which are specifically granted . In communicating this result I can not resist the obligation which I feel to suggest to Congress the propriety of recommending to the states the adoption of an amendment to the Constitution which shall give to Congress the right in question . In cases of doubtful construction , especially of such vital interest , it comports with the nature and origin of our institutions , and will contribute much to preserve them , to apply to our constituents for an explicit grant of the power . We may confidently rely that if it appears to their satisfaction that the power is necessary , it will always be granted . In this case I am happy to observe that experience has afforded the most ample proof of its utility , and that the benign spirit of conciliation and harmony which now manifests itself throughout our Union promises to such a recommendation the most prompt and favorable result . I think proper to suggest also , in case this measure is adopted , that it be recommended to the states to include in the amendment sought a right in Congress to institute likewise seminaries of learning , for the all important purpose of diffusing knowledge among our fellow citizens throughout the United States . Our manufactories will require the continued attention of Congress . The capital employed in them is considerable , and the knowledge acquired in the machinery and fabric of all the most useful manufactures is of great value . Their preservation , which depends on due encouragement , is connected with the high interests of the nation . Although the progress of the public buildings has been as favorable as circumstances have permitted , it is to be regretted that the Capitol is not yet in a state to receive you . There is good cause to presume that the two wings , the only parts as yet commenced , will be prepared for that purpose at the next session . The time seems now to have arrived when this subject may be deemed worthy the attention of Congress on a scale adequate to national purposes . The completion of the middle building will be necessary to the convenient accommodation of Congress , of the committees , and various offices belonging to it . It is evident that the other public buildings are altogether insufficient for the accommodation of the several executive departments , some of whom are much crowded and even subjected to the necessity of obtaining it in private buildings at some distance from the head of the department , and with inconvenience to the management of the public business . Most nations have taken an interest and a pride in the improvement and ornament of their metropolis , and none were more conspicuous in that respect than the ancient republics . The policy which dictated the establishment of a permanent residence for the national government and the spirit in which it was commenced and has been prosecuted show that such improvement was thought worthy the attention of this nation . Its central position , between the northern and southern extremes of our union , and its approach to the west at the head of a great navigable river which interlocks with the Western waters , prove the wisdom of the councils which established it . Nothing appears to be more reasonable and proper than that convenient accommodation should be provided on a well digested plan for the heads of the several departments and for the Attorney General , and it is believed that the public ground in the city applied to these objects will be found amply sufficient . I submit this subject to the consideration of Congress , that such further provision may be made in it as to them may seem proper . It is contemplating the happy situation of the United States , our attention is drawn with peculiar interest to the surviving officers and soldiers of our Revolutionary army , who so eminently contributed by their services to lay its foundation . Most of those very meritorious citizens have paid the debt of nature and gone to repose . It is believed that among the survivors there are some not provided for by existing laws , who are reduced to indigence and even to real distress . These man have a claim on the gratitude of their country , and it will do honor to their country to provide for them . The lapse of a few years more and the opportunity will be forever lost indeed , so long already has been the interval that the number to be benefitted by any provision which may be made will not be great . It appearing in a satisfactory manner that the revenue arising from imposts and tonnage and from the sale of the public lands will be fully adequate to the support of the civil government , of the present military and naval establishments , including the annual augmentation of the latter to the extent provided for , to the payment of the interest of the public debt , and to the extinguishment of it at the times authorized , without the aid of the internal taxes , I consider it my duty to recommend to Congress their repeal . To impose taxes when the public exigencies require them is an obligation of the most sacred character , especially with a free people . The faithful fulfillment of it is among the highest proofs of their value and capacity for self government . To dispense with taxes when it may be done with perfect safety is equally the duty of their representatives . In this instance we have the satisfaction to know that they were imposed when the demand was imperious , and have been sustained with exemplary fidelity . I have to add that however gratifying it may be to me regarding the prosperous and happy condition of our country to recommend the repeal of these taxes at this time , I shall nevertheless be attentive to events , and , should any future emergency occur , be not less prompt to suggest such measures and burdens as may then be requisite and proper .<speech_sep>Fellow Citizens of the Senate and of the House of Representatives The progress of our affairs since the last session has been such as may justly be claimed and expected under a Government deriving all its powers from an enlightened people , and under laws formed by their representatives , on great consideration , for the sole purpose of promoting the welfare and happiness of their constituents . In the execution of those laws and of the powers vested by the Constitution in the Executive , unremitted attention has been paid to the great objects to which they extend . In the concerns which are exclusively internal there is good cause to be satisfied with the result . The laws have had their due operation and effect . In those relating to foreign powers , I am happy to state that peace and amity are preserved with all by a strict observance on both sides of the rights of each . In matters touching our commercial intercourse , where a difference of opinion has existed as to the conditions on which it should be placed , each party has pursued its own policy without giving just cause of offense to the other . In this annual communication , especially when it is addressed to a new Congress , the whole scope of our political concerns naturally comes into view , that errors , if such have been committed , may be corrected that defects which have become manifest may be remedied and , on the other hand , that measures which were adopted on due deliberation , and which experience has shewn are just in themselves and essential to the public welfare , should be persevered in and supported . In performing this necessary and very important duty I shall endeavor to place before you on its merits every subject that is thought to be entitled to your particular attention in as distinct and clear a light as I may be able . By an act of 1815 03 03 , so much of the several acts as imposed higher duties on the tonnage of foreign vessels and on the manufactures and productions of foreign nations when imported into the United States in foreign vessels than when imported in vessels of the United States were repealed so far as respected the manufactures and productions of the nation to which such vessels belonged , on the condition that the repeal should take effect only in favor of any foreign nation when the Executive should be satisfied that such discriminating duties to the disadvantage of the United States had likewise been repealed by such nation . By this act a proposition was made to all nations to place our commerce with each on a basis which it was presumed would be acceptable to all . Every nation was allowed to bring its manufactures and productions into our ports and to take the manufactures and productions of the United States back to their ports in their own vessels on the same conditions that they might be transported in vessels of the United States , and in return it was required that a like accommodation should be granted to the vessels of the United States in the ports of other powers . The articles to be admitted or prohibited on either side formed no part of the proposed arrangement . Each party would retain the right to admit or prohibit such articles from the other as it thought proper , and on its own conditions . When the nature of the commerce between the United States and every other country was taken into view , it was thought that this proposition would be considered fair , and even liberal , by every power . The exports of the United States consist generally of articles of the 1st necessity and of rude materials in demand for foreign manufactories , of great bulk , requiring for their transportation many vessels , the return for which in the manufactures and productions of any foreign country , even when disposed of there to advantage , may be brought in a single vessel . This observation is the more especially applicable to those countries from which manufactures alone are imported , but it applies in great extent to the European dominions of every European power and in a certain extent to all the colonies of those powers . By placing , then , the navigation precisely on the same ground in the transportation of exports and imports between the United States and other countries it was presumed that all was offered which could be desired . It seemed to be the only proposition which could be devised which would retain even the semblance of equality in our favor . Many considerations of great weight gave us a right to expect that this commerce should be extended to the colonies as well as to the European dominions of other powers . With the latter , especially with countries exclusively manufacturing , the advantage was manifestly on their side . An indemnity for that loss was expected from a trade with the colonies , and with the greater reason as it was known that the supplies which the colonies derived from us were of the highest importance to them , their labor being bestowed with so much greater profit in the culture of other articles and because , likewise , the articles of which those supplies consisted , forming so large a proportion of the exports of the United States , were never admitted into any of the ports of Europe except in cases of great emergency to avert a serious calamity . When no article is admitted which is not required to supply the wants of the party admitting it , and admitted then not in favor of any particular country to the disadvantage of others , but on conditions equally applicable to all , it seems just that the articles thus admitted and invited should be carried thither in the vessels of the country affording such supply and that the reciprocity should be found in a corresponding accommodation on the other side . By allowing each party to participate in the transportation of such supplies on the payment of equal tonnage a strong proof was afforded of an accommodating spirit . To abandon to it the transportation of the whole would be a sacrifice which ought not to be expected . The demand in the present instance would be the more unreasonable in consideration of the great inequality existing in the trade with the parent country . Such was the basis of our system as established by the act of 1815 and such its true character . In the year in which this act was passed a treaty was concluded with Great Britain , in strict conformity with its principles , in regard to her European dominions . to her colonies , however , in the West Indies and on this continent it was not extended , the British Government claiming the exclusive supply of those colonies , and from our own ports , and of the productions of the colonies in return in her own vessels . To this claim the United States could not assent , and in consequence each party suspended the intercourse in the vessels of the other by a prohibition which still exists . The same conditions were offered to France , but not accepted . Her Government has demanded other conditions more favorable to her navigation , and which should also give extraordinary encouragement to her manufactures and productions in ports of the United States . To these it was thought improper to accede , and in consequence the restrictive regulations which had been adopted on her part , being countervailed on the part of the United States , the direct commerce between the 2 countries in the vessels of each party has been in great measure suspended . It is much to be regretted that , although a negotiation has been long pending , such is the diversity of views entertained on the various points which have been brought into discussion that there does not appear to be any reasonable prospect of its early conclusion . It is my duty to state , as a cause of very great regret , that very serious differences have occurred in this negotiation respecting the construction of the 8th article of the treaty of 1803 , by which Louisiana was ceded to the United States , and likewise respecting the seizure of the Apollo , in 1820 , for a violation of our revenue laws . The claim of the Government of France has excited not less surprise than concern , because there does not appear to be a just foundation for it in either instance . By the 8th article of the treaty referred to it is stipulated that after the expiration of 12 years , during which time it was provided by the 7th or preceding article that the vessels of France and Spain should be admitted into the ports of the ceded territory without paying higher duties on merchandise or tonnage on the vessels than such as were paid by citizens of the United States , the ships of France should forever afterwards be placed on the footing of the most favored nation . By the obvious construction of this article it is presumed that it was intended that no favor should be granted to any power in those ports to which France should not be forthwith entitled , nor should any accommodation be allowed to another power on conditions to which she would not also be entitled on the same conditions . Under this construction no favor or accommodation could be granted to any power to the prejudice of France . By allowing the equivalent allowed by those powers she would always stand in those ports on the footing of the most favored nation . But if this article should be so construed as that France should enjoy , of right , and without paying the equivalent , all the advantages of such conditions as might be allowed to other powers in return for important concessions made by them , then the whole character of the stipulations would be changed . She would not be placed on the footing of the most favored nation , but on a footing held by no other nation . She would enjoy all advantages allowed to them in consideration of like advantages allowed to us , free from every and any condition whatever . As little cause has the Government of France to complain of the seizure of the Apollo and the removal of other vessels from the waters of the Marys . It will not be denied that every nation has a right to regulate its commercial system as it thinks fit and to enforce the collection of its revenue , provided it be done without an invasion of the rights of other powers . The violation of its revenue laws is an offense which all nations punish , the punishment of which gives no just cause of complaint to the power to which the offenders belong , provided it be extended to all equally . In this case every circumstance which occurred indicated a fixed purpose to violate our revenue laws . Had the party intended to have pursued a fair trade he would have entered the port of some other power , landed his goods at the custom house according to law , and re shipped and sent them in the vessel of such power , or of some other power which might lawfully bring them , free from such duties , to a port of the United States . But the conduct of the party in this case was altogether different . He entered the river Marys , the boundary line between the United States and Florida , and took his position on the Spanish side , on which in the whole extent of the river there was no town , no port or custom house , and scarcely any settlement . His purpose , therefore , was not to sell his goods to the inhabitants of Florida , but to citizens of the United States , in exchange for their productions , which could not be done without a direct and palpable breach of our laws . It is known that a regular systematic plan had been formed by certain persons for the violation of our revenue system , which made it the more necessary to check the proceeding in its commencement . That the unsettled bank of a river so remote from the Spanish garrisons and population could give no protection to any party in such a practice is believed to be in strict accord with the law of nations . It would not have comported with a friendly policy in Spain herself to have established a custom house there , since it could have subserved no other purpose than to elude our revenue law . But the Government of Spain did not adopt that measure . On the contrary , it is understood that the Captain General of Cuba , to whom an application to that effect was made by these adventurers , had not acceded to it . The condition of those Provinces for many years before they were ceded to the United States need not now be dwelt on . Inhabited by different tribes of Indians and an inroad for every kind of adventurer , the jurisdiction of Spain may be said to have been almost exclusively confined to her garrisons . It certainly could not extend to places where she had no authority . The rules , therefore , applicable to settled countries governed by laws could not be deemed so to the deserts of Florida and to the occurrences there . It merits attention also that the territory had been ceded to the United States by a treaty the ratification of which had not been refused , and which has since been performed . Under any circumstances , therefore , Spain became less responsible for such acts committed there , and the United States more at liberty to exercise authority to prevent so great a mischief . The conduct of this Government has in every instance been conciliatory and friendly to France . The construction of our revenue law in its application to the cases which have formed the ground of such serious complaint on her part and the order to the collector of Marys , in accord with it , were given two years before these cases occurred , and in reference to a breach which was attempted by the subjects of another power . The application , therefore , to the cases in question was inevitable . As soon as the treaty by which these Provinces were ceded to the United States was ratified , and all danger of further breach of our revenue laws ceased , an order was given for the release of the vessel which had been seized and for the dismission of the libel which had been instituted against her . The principles of this system of reciprocity , founded on the law of 1815 03 03 , have been since carried into effect with the Kingdoms of the Netherlands , Sweden , Prussia , and with Hamburg , Lubeck , and Oldenburg , with a provision made by subsequent laws in regard to the Netherlands , Prussia , Hamburg , and Bremen that such produce and manufactures as could only be , or most usually were , 1st shipped from the ports of those countries , the same being imported in vessels wholly belonging to their subjects , should be considered and admitted as their own manufactures and productions . The Government of Norway has by an ordinance opened the ports of that part of the dominions of the King of Sweden to the vessels of the United States upon the payment of no other or higher duties than are paid by Norwegian vessels , from whatever place arriving and with whatever articles laden . They have requested the reciprocal allowance for the vessels of Norway in the ports of the United States . As this privilege is not within the scope of the act of 1815 03 03 , and can only be granted by Congress , and as it may involve the commercial relations of the United States with other nations , the subject is submitted to the wisdom of Congress . I have presented thus fully to your view our commercial relations with other powers , that , seeing them in detail with each power , and knowing the basis on which they rest , Congress may in its wisdom decide whether any change ought to be made , and , if any , in what respect . If this basis is unjust or unreasonable , surely it ought to be abandoned but if it be just and reasonable , and any change in it will make concessions subversive of equality and tending in its consequences to sap the foundations of our prosperity , then the reasons are equally strong for adhering to the ground already taken , and supporting it by such further regulations as may appear to be proper , should any additional support be found necessary . The question concerning the construction of the first article of the treaty of Ghent has been , by a joint act of the representatives of the United States and of Great Britain at the Court of Petersburg , submitted to the decision of His Imperial Majesty the Emperor of Russia . The result of that submission has not yet been received . The commissioners under the 5th article of that treaty not having been able to agree upon their decision , their reports to the two Governments , according to the provisions of the treaty , may be expected at an early day . With Spain the treaty of 1819 02 22 , has been partly carried into execution . Possession of E and W FL has been given to the United States , but the officers charged with that service by an order from His Catholic Majesty , delivered by his minister to the Sec of State , and transmitted by a special agent to the Captain General of Cuba , to whom it was directed and in whom the Government of those Provinces was vested , have not only omitted , in contravention of the order of their Sovereign , the performance of the express stipulation to deliver over the archives and documents relating to the property and sovereignty of those Provinces , all of which it was expected would have been delivered either before or when the troops were withdrawn , but defeated since every effort of the United States to obtain them , especially those of the greatest importance . This omission has given rise to several incidents of a painful nature , the character of which will be fully disclosed by the documents which will be hereafter communicated . In every other circumstance of the law of the 3rd of March last , for carrying into effect that treaty , has been duly attended to . For the execution of that part which preserved in force , for the Government of the inhabitants for the term specified , all the civil , military , and judicial powers exercised by the existing Government of those Provinces an adequate of officers , as was presumed , were appointed , and ordered to their respective stations . Both Provinces were formed into 1 Territory , and a governor appointed for it but in consideration of the pre existing division and of the distance and difficulty of communication between Pensacola , the residence of the governor of West Florida , and Augustine , that of the governor of East Florida , at which places the inconsiderable population of each Province was principally collected , two secretaries were appointed , the one to reside at Pensacola and the other at Augustine . Due attention was likewise paid to the execution of the laws of the United States relating to the revenue and the slave trade , which were extended to these Provinces . The whole Territory was divided into three collection districts , that part lying between the river Marys and Cape Florida forming one , that from the Cape to the Apalachicola another , and that from the Apalachicola to the Perdido the third . To these districts the usual number of revenue officers were appointed and to secure the due operation of these laws one judge and a district attorney were appointed to reside at Pensacola , and likewise one judge and a district attorney to reside at Augustine , with a specified boundary between them and one marshal for the whole , with authority to appoint a deputy . In carrying this law into effect , and especially that part relating to the powers of the existing Government of those Provinces , it was thought important , in consideration of the short term for which it was to operate and the radical change which would be made at the approaching session of Congress , to avoid expense , to make no appointment which should not be absolutely necessary to give effect to those powers , to withdraw none of our citizens from their pursuits , whereby to subject the Government to claims which could not be gratified and the parties to losses which it would be painful to witness . It has been seen with much concern that in the performance of these duties a collision arose between the governor of the Territory and the judge appointed for the western district . It was presumed that the law under which this transitory Government was organized , and the commissions which were granted to the officers who were appointed to execute each branch of the system , and to which the commissions were adapted , would have been understood in the same sense by them in which they were understood by the Executive . Much allowance is due to officers employed in each branch of this system , and the more so as there is good cause to believe that each acted under the conviction that he possessed the power which he undertook to exercise . Of the officer holding the principal station , I think it proper to observe that he accepted it with reluctance , in compliance with the invitation given him , and from a high sense of duty to his country , being willing to contribute to the consummation of an event which would insure complete protection to an important part of our Union , which had suffered much from incursion and invasion , and to the defense of which his very gallant and patriotic services had been so signally and usefully devoted . From the intrinsic difficulty of executing laws deriving their origin from different sources , and so essentially different in many important circumstances , the advantage , and indeed the necessity , of establishing as soon as practicable a well organized Government over that Territory on the principles of our system is apparent . This subject is therefore recommended to the early consideration of Congress . In compliance with an injunction of the law of the 3rd of March last , three commissioners have also been appointed and a board organized for carrying into effect the 11th article of the treaty above recited , making provision for the payment of such of our citizens as have well founded claims on Spain of the character specified by that treaty . This board has entered on its duties and made some progress therein . The commissioner and surveyor of His Catholic Majesty , provided for by the 4th article of the treaty , have not yet arrived in the United States , but are soon expected . As soon as they do arrive corresponding appointments will be made and every facility be afforded for the due execution of this service . The Government of His Most Faithful Majesty since the termination of the last session of Congress has been removed from Rio de Janeiro to Lisbon , where a revolution similar to that which had occurred in the neighboring Kingdom of Spain had in like manner been sanctioned by the accepted and pledged faith of the reigning monarch . The diplomatic intercourse between the United States and the Portuguese dominions , interrupted by this important event , has not yet been resumed , but the change of internal administration having already materially affected the commercial intercourse of the United States with the Portuguese dominions , the renewal of the public missions between the two countries appears to be desirable at an early day . It is understood that the colonies in South America have had great success during the present year in the struggle for their independence . The new Government of Colombia has extended its territories and considerably augmented its strength , and at Buenos Ayres , where civil dissensions had for some time before prevailed , greater harmony and better order appear to have been established . Equal success has attended their efforts in the Provinces on the Pacific . It has long been manifest that it would be impossible for Spain to reduce these colonies by force , and equally so that no conditions short of their independence would be satisfactory to them . It may therefore be presumed , and it is earnestly hoped , that the Government of Spain , guided by enlightened and liberal councils , will find it to comport with its interests and due to its magnanimity to terminate this exhausting controversy on that basis . To promote this result by friendly counsel with the Government of Spain will be the object of the Government of the United States . In conducting the fiscal operations of the year it has been found necessary to carry into full effect the act of the last session of Congress authorizing a loan of 5This sum has been raised at an average premium of 5 . 59 per centum upon stock bearing an interest at the rate of 5 per annum , redeemable at the option of the Government after 1835 01 01 . There has been issued under the provisions of this act 4 , 735 , 296 . 30 of 5 stock , and there has been or will be redeemed during the year 3 , 197 , 030 . 71 of Louisiana 6 deferred stock and Mississippi stock . There has therefore been an actual increase of the public debt contracted during the year of 1 , 538 , 266 . 69 . The receipts into the Treasury from the first of January to the 30th of September last have amounted to 16 , 219 , 197 . 70 , which , with the balance of 1 , 198 , 461 . 21 in the Treasury on the former day , make the aggregate sum of 17 , 417 , 658 . 91 . The payments from the Treasury during the same period have amounted to 15 , 655 , 288 . 47 , leaving in the Treasury on the last mentioned day the sum of 1 , 762 , 370 . 44 . It is estimated that the receipts of the 4th quarter of the year will exceed the demands which will be made on the Treasury during the same period , and that the amount in the Treasury on the 30th of September last will be increased on the first day of January next . At the close of the last session it was anticipated that the progressive diminution of the public revenue in 1819 and 1820 , which had been the result of the languid state of our foreign commerce in those years , had in the latter year reached its extreme point of depression . It has , however , been ascertained that that point was reached only at the termination of the first quarter of the present year . From that time until the 30th of September last the duties secured have exceeded those of the corresponding quarters of the last year 1 . 172whilst the amount of debentures issued during the three first quarters of this year is 952 , 000 less than that of the same quarters of the last year . There are just grounds to believe that the improvement which has occurred in the revenue during the last mentioned period will not only be maintained , but that it will progressively increase through the next and several succeeding years , so as to realize the results which were presented upon that subject by the official reports of the Treasury at the commencement of the last session of Congress . Under the influence of the most unfavorable circumstances the revenue for the next and subsequent years to the year 1825 will exceed the demands at present authorized by law . It may fairly be presumed that under the protection given to domestic manufactures by the existing laws we shall become at no distant period a manufacturing country on an extensive scale . Possessing as we do the raw materials in such vast amount , with a capacity to augment them to an indefinite extent raising within the country aliment of every kind to an amount far exceeding the demand for home consumption , even in the most unfavorable years , and to be obtained always at a very moderate price skilled also , as our people are , in the mechanic arts and in every improvement calculated to lessen the demand for and the price of labor , it is manifest that their success in every branch of domestic industry may and will be carried , under the encouragement given by the present duties , to an extent to meet any demand which under a fair competition may be made upon it . A considerable increase of domestic manufactures , by diminishing the importation of foreign , will probably tend to lessen the amount of the public revenue . As , however , a large proportion of the revenue which is derived from duties is raised from other articles than manufactures , the demand for which will increase with our population , it is believed that a fund will still be raised from that source adequate to the greater part of the public expenditures , especially as those expenditures , should we continue to be blessed with peace , will be diminished by the completion of the fortifications , dock yards , and other public works , by the augmentation of the Navy to the point to which it is proposed to carry it , and by the payment of the public debt , including pensions for military services . It can not be doubted that the more complete our internal resources and the less dependent we are on foreign powers for every national as well as domestic purpose the greater and more stable will be the public felicity . By the increase of domestic manufactures will the demand for the rude materials at home be increased , and thus will the dependence of the several parts of our Union on each other and the strength of the Union itself be proportionably augmented . In this process , which is very desirable , and inevitable under the existing duties , the resources which obviously present themselves to supply a deficiency in the revenue , should it occur , are the interests which may derive the principal benefit from the change . If domestic manufactures are raised by duties on foreign , the deficiency in the fund necessary for public purposes should be supplied by duties on the former . At the last session it seemed doubtful whether the revenue derived from the present sources would be adequate to all the great purposes of our Union , including the construction of our fortifications , the augmentation of the Navy , and the protection of our commerce against the dangers to which it is exposed . had the deficiency been such as to subject us to the necessity either to abandon those measures of defense or to resort to the other means for adequate funds , the course presented to the adoption of a virtuous and enlightened people appeared to be a plain one . It must be gratifying to all to know that this necessity does not exist . Nothing , however , in contemplation of such important objects , which can be easily provided for , should be left to hazard . It is thought that the revenue may receive an augmentation from the existing sources , and in a manner to aid our manufactures , without hastening prematurely the result which has been suggested . It is believed that a moderate additional duty on certain articles would have that effect , without being liable to any serious objection . The examination of the whole coast , for the construction of permanent fortifications , from Croix to the Sabine , with the exception of part of the territory lately acquired , will be completed in the present year , as will be the survey of the Mississippi , under the resolution of the House of Representatives , from the mouth of the Ohio to the ocean , and likewise of the Ohio from Louisville to the Mississippi . A progress corresponding with the sums appropriated has also been made in the construction of these fortifications at the ports designated . As they will form a system of defense for the whole maritime frontier , and in consequence for the interior , and are to last for ages , the greatest care has been taken to fix the position of each work and to form it on such a scale as will be adequate to the purpose intended by it . All the inlets and assailable parts of our Union have been minutely examined , and positions taken with a view to the best effect , observing in every instance a just regard for economy . Doubts , however , being entertained as to the propriety of the position and extent of the work at Dauphine Island , further progress in it was suspended soon after the last session of Congress , and an order given to the Board of Engineers and Naval Commissioners to make a further and more minute examination of it in both respects , and to report the result without delay . Due progress has been made in the construction of vessels of war according to the law providing for the gradual augmentation of the Navy , and to the extent of existing appropriations . The vessels authorized by the act of 1820 have all been completed and are now in actual service . None of the larger ships have been or will be launched for the present , the object being to protect all which may not be required for immediate service from decay by suitable buildings erected over them . A squadron has been maintained , as heretofore , in the Mediterranean , by means whereof peace has been preserved with the Barbary Powers . This squadron has been reduced the present year to as small a force as is compatible with the fulfillment of the object intended by it . From past experience and the best information respecting the views of those powers it is distinctly understood that should our squadron be withdrawn they would soon recommence their hostilities and depredations upon our commerce . Their fortifications have lately been rebuilt and their maritime force increased . It has also been found necessary to maintain a naval force on the Pacific for the protection of the very important interests of our citizens engaged in commerce and the fisheries in that sea . Vessels have likewise been employed in cruising along the Atlantic coast , in the Gulf of Mexico , on the coast of Africa , and in the neighboring seas . In the latter many piracies have been committed on our commerce , and so extensive was becoming the range of those unprincipled adventurers that there was cause to apprehend , without a timely and decisive effort to suppress them , the worst consequences would ensue . Fortunately , a considerable check has been given to that spirit by our cruisers , who have succeeded in capturing and destroying several of their vessels . Nevertheless , it is considered an object of high importance to continue these cruises until the practice is entirely suppressed . Like success has attended our efforts to suppress the slave trade . Under the flag of the United States and the sanction of their papers the trade may be considered as entire suppressed , and if any of our citizens are engaged in it under the flags and papers of other powers , it is only from a respect of those powers that these offenders are not seized and brought home to receive the punishment which the laws inflict . If every other power should adopt the same policy and pursue the same vigorous means for carrying it into effect , the trade could no longer exist . Deeply impressed with the blessings which we enjoy , and of which we have such manifold proofs , my mind is irresistibly drawn to that Almighty Being , the great source from whence they proceed and to whom our most grateful acknowledgments are due .<speech_sep>