President and Speaker and members of the United States Congress I come to this House of the people to speak to you and all Americans , certain that we stand at a defining hour . Halfway around the world , we are engaged in a great struggle in the skies and on the seas and sands . We know why we are there We are Americans , part of something larger than ourselves . For two centuries , we have done the hard work of freedom . And tonight , we lead the world in facing down a threat to decency and humanity . What is at stake is more than one small country it is a big idea a new world order , where diverse nations are drawn together in common cause to achieve the universal aspirations of mankind peace and security , freedom , and the rule of law . Such is a world worthy of our struggle and worthy of our children s future . The community of nations has resolutely gathered to condemn and repel lawless aggression . Saddam Hussein s unprovoked invasion his ruthless , systematic rape of a peaceful neighbor violated everything the community of nations holds dear . The world has said this aggression would not stand , and it will not stand . Together , we have resisted the trap of appeasement , cynicism , and isolation that gives temptation to tyrants . The world has answered Saddam s invasion with 12 United Nations resolutions , starting with a demand for Iraq s immediate and unconditional withdrawal , and backed up by forces from 28 countries of six continents . With few exceptions , the world now stands as one . The end of the Cold War has been a victory for all humanity . A year and a half ago , in Germany , I said that our goal was a Europe whole and free . Tonight , Germany is united . Europe has become whole and free , and America s leadership was instrumental in making it possible . Our relationship to the Soviet Union is important , not only to us but to the world . That relationship has helped to shape these and other historic changes . But like many other nations , we have been deeply concerned by the violence in the Baltics , and we have communicated that concern to the Soviet leadership . The principle that has guided us is simple Our objective is to help the Baltic peoples achieve their aspirations , not to punish the Soviet Union . In our recent discussions with the Soviet leadership we have been given representations which , if fulfilled , would result in the withdrawal of some Soviet forces , a reopening of dialog with the Republics , and a move away from violence . We will watch carefully as the situation develops . And we will maintain our contact with the Soviet leadership to encourage continued commitment to democratization and reform . If it is possible , I want to continue to build a lasting basis for S . Soviet cooperation for a more peaceful future for all mankind . The triumph of democratic ideas in Eastern Europe and Latin America and the continuing struggle for freedom elsewhere all around the world all confirm the wisdom of our nation s founders . Tonight , we work to achieve another victory , a victory over tyranny and savage aggression . We in this Union enter the last decade of the 20th century thankful for our blessings , steadfast in our purpose , aware of our difficulties , and responsive to our duties at home and around the world . For two centuries , America has served the world as an inspiring example of freedom and democracy . For generations , America has led the struggle to preserve and extend the blessings of liberty . And today , in a rapidly changing world , American leadership is indispensable . Americans know that leadership brings burdens and sacrifices . But we also know why the hopes of humanity turn to us . We are Americans we have a unique responsibility to do the hard work of freedom . And when we do , freedom works . The conviction and courage we see in the Persian Gulf today is simply the American character in action . The indomitable spirit that is contributing to this victory for world peace and justice is the same spirit that gives us the power and the potential to meet our toughest challenges at home . We are resolute and resourceful . If we can selflessly confront the evil for the sake of good in a land so far away , then surely we can make this land all that it should be . If anyone tells you that America s best days are behind her , they are looking the wrong way . Tonight I come before this House and the American people with an appeal for renewal . This is not merely a call for new government initiatives it is a call for new initiatives in government , in our communities , and from every American to prepare for the next American century . America has always led by example . So , who among us will set the example Which of our citizens will lead us in this next American century Everyone who steps forward today to get one addict off drugs , to convince one troubled teenager not to give up on life , to comfort one AIDS patient , to help one hungry child . We have within our reach the promise of a renewed America . We can find meaning and reward by serving some higher purpose than ourselves , a shining purpose , the illumination of a Thousand Points of Light . And it is expressed by all who know the irresistible force of a child s hand , of a friend who stands by you and stays there , a volunteer s generous gesture , an idea that is simply right . The problems before us may be different , but the key to solving them remains the same . It is the individual the individual who steps forward . And the state of our Union is the union of each of us , one to the other the sum of our friendships , marriages , families , and communities . We all have something to give . So , if you know how to read , find someone who cannot . If you have got a hammer , find a nail . If you are not hungry , not lonely , not in trouble , seek out someone who is . Join the community of conscience . Do the hard work of freedom . And that will define the state of our Union . Since the birth of our nation , We the People has been the source of our strength . What government can do alone is limited , but the potential of the American people knows no limits . We are a nation of rock solid realism and clear eyed idealism . We are Americans . We are the nation that believes in the future . We are the nation that can shape the future . And we have begun to do just that , by strengthening the power and choice of individuals and families . Together , these last two years , we have put dollars for child care directly in the hands of parents instead of bureaucracies unshackled the potential of Americans with disabilities applied the creativity of the marketplace in the service of the environment , for clean air and made home ownership possible for more Americans . The strength of a democracy is not in bureaucracy . It is in the people and their communities . In everything we do , let us unleash the potential of our most precious resource our citizens , our citizens themselves . We must return to families , communities , counties , cities , States , and institutions of every kind the power to chart their own destiny and the freedom and opportunity provided by strong economic growth . And that is what America is all about . I know that tonight , in some regions of our country , people are in genuine economic distress . And I hear them . Earlier this month , Kathy Blackwell , of Massachusetts , wrote me about what can happen when the economy slows down , saying , My heart is aching , and I think that you should know your people out here are hurting badly . I understand , and I am not unrealistic about the future . But there are reasons to be optimistic about our economy . First , we do not have to fight double digit inflation . Second , most industries will not have to make big cuts in production because they do not have big inventories piled up . And third , our exports are running solid and strong . In fact , American businesses are exporting at a record rate . So , let us put these times in perspective . Together , since 1981 , we have created almost 20 million jobs , cut inflation in half , and cut interest rates in half . And yes , the largest peacetime economic expansion in history has been temporarily interrupted . But our economy is still over twice as large as our closest competitor . We will get this recession behind us and return to growth soon . We will get on our way to a new record of expansion and achieve the competitive strength that will carry us into the next American century . We should focus our efforts today on encouraging economic growth , investing in the future , and giving power and opportunity to the individual . We must begin with control of federal spending . That is why I am submitting a budget that holds the growth in spending to less than the rate of inflation . And that is why , amid all the sound and fury of last year s budget debate , we put into law new , enforceable spending caps , so that future spending debates will mean a battle of ideas , not a bidding war . Though controversial , the budget agreement finally put the federal government on a pay as you go plan and cut the growth of debt by nearly 500 billion . And that frees funds for saving and job creating investment . Now , let us do more . My budget again includes tax free family savings accounts penalty free withdrawals from IRAs for first time home buyers and to increase jobs and growth , a reduced tax for long term capital gains . I know there are differences among us about the impact and the effects of a capital gains incentive . So tonight , I am asking the congressional leaders and the Federal Reserve to cooperate with us in a study , led by Chairman Alan Greenspan , to sort out our technical differences so that we can avoid a return to unproductive partisan bickering . But just as our efforts will bring economic growth now and in the future , they must also be matched by long term investments for the next American century . That requires a forward looking plan of action , and that is exactly what we will be sending to the Congress . We have prepared a detailed series of proposals that include a budget that promotes investment in America s future in children , education , infrastructure , space , and high technology legislation to achieve excellence in education , building on the partnership forged with the 50 Governors at the education summit , enabling parents to choose their children s schools and helping to make America number one in math and science a blueprint for a new national highway system , a critical investment in our transportation infrastructure a research and development agenda that includes record levels of federal investment , and a permanent tax credit to strengthen private R and D and to create jobs a comprehensive national energy strategy that calls for energy conservation and efficiency , increased development , and greater use of alternative fuels a banking reform plan to bring America s financial system into the 21st century so that our banks remain safe and secure and can continue to make job creating loans for our factories , our businesses , and home buyers . You know , I do think there has been too much pessimism . Sound banks should be making sound loans now , and interest rates should be lower , now . In addition to these proposals , we must recognize that our economic strength depends on being competitive in world markets . We must continue to expand American exports . A successful Uruguay round of world trade negotiations will create more real jobs and more real growth for all nations . You and I know that if the playing field is level , America s workers and farmers can out work , out produce anyone , anytime , anywhere . And with a Mexican free trade agreement and our Enterprise for the Americas Initiative , we can help our partners strengthen their economies and move toward a free trade zone throughout this entire hemisphere . The budget also includes a plan of action right here at home to put more power and opportunity in the hands of the individual . And that means new incentives to create jobs in our inner cities by encouraging investment through enterprise zones . It also means tenant control and ownership of public housing . Freedom and the power to choose should not be the privilege of wealth . They are the birthright of every American . Civil rights are also crucial to protecting equal opportunity . Every one of us has a responsibility to speak out against racism , bigotry , and hate . We will continue our vigorous enforcement of existing statutes , and I will once again press the Congress to strengthen the laws against employment discrimination without resorting to the use of unfair preferences . We are determined to protect another fundamental civil right freedom from crime and the fear that stalks our cities . The Attorney General will soon convene a crime summit of our nation s law enforcement officials . And to help us support them , we need tough crime control legislation , and we need it now . And as we fight crime , we will fully implement our national strategy for combating drug abuse . Recent data show that we are making progress , but much remains to be done . We will not rest until the day of the dealer is over , forever . Good health care is every American s right and every American s responsibility . And so , we are proposing an aggressive program of new prevention initiatives for infants , for children , for adults , and for the elderly to promote a healthier America and to help keep costs from spiraling . It is time to give people more choice in government by reviving the ideal of the citizen politician who comes not to stay but to serve . And one of the reasons that there is so much support across this country for term limitations is that the American people are increasingly concerned about big money influence in politics . So , we must look beyond the next election to the next generation . And the time has come to put the national interest above the special interest and to totally eliminate political action committees . And that would truly put more competition in elections and more power in the hands of individuals . And where power cannot be put directly in the hands of the individual , it should be moved closer to the people , away from Washington . The federal government too often treats government programs as if they are of Washington , by Washington , and for Washington . Once established , federal programs seem to become immortal . It is time for a more dynamic program life cycle . Some programs should increase . Some should decrease . Some should be terminated . And some should be consolidated and turned over to the states . My budget includes a list of programs for potential turnover totaling more than 20 billion . Working with Congress and the Governors , I propose we select at least 15 billion in such programs and turn them over to the states in a single consolidated grant , fully funded , for flexible management by the states . The value , the value of this turnover approach is straightforward . It allows the federal government to reduce overhead . It allows states to manage more flexibly and more efficiently . It moves power and decisionmaking closer to the people . And it reinforces a theme of this administration appreciation and encouragement of the innovative powers of states as laboratories . This nation was founded by leaders who understood that power belongs in the hands of people . And they planned for the future . And so must we , here and all around the world . As Americans , we know that there are times when we must step forward and accept our responsibility to lead the world away from the dark chaos of dictators , toward the brighter promise of a better day . Almost 50 years ago we began a long struggle against aggressive totalitarianism . Now we face another defining hour for America and the world . There is no one more devoted , more committed to the hard work of freedom than every soldier and sailor , every marine , airman , and coastguardsman , every man and woman now serving in the Persian Gulf . Oh , how they deserve and what a fitting tribute to them . You see what a wonderful , fitting tribute to them . Each of them has volunteered , volunteered to provide for this nation s defense , and now they bravely struggle to earn for America , for the world , and for future generations a just and lasting peace . Our commitment to them must be equal to their commitment to their country . They are truly America s finest . The war in the Gulf is not a war we wanted . We worked hard to avoid war . For more than five months we along with the Arab League , the European Community , the United Nations tried every diplomatic avenue . Secretary General Perez de Cuellar Presidents Gorbachev , Mitterrand , Ozal , Mubarak , and Bendjedid Kings Fahd and Hassan Prime Ministers Major and Andreotti just to name a few all worked for a solution . But time and again , Saddam Hussein flatly rejected the path of diplomacy and peace . The world well knows how this conflict began and when It began on August 2nd , when Saddam invaded and sacked a small , defenseless neighbor . And I am certain of how it will end . So that peace can prevail , we will prevail . Thank you . Tonight I am pleased to report that we are on course . Iraq s capacity to sustain war is being destroyed . Our investment , our training , our planning all are paying off . Time will not be Saddam s salvation . Our purpose in the Persian Gulf remains constant to drive Iraq out of Kuwait , to restore Kuwait is legitimate government , and to ensure the stability and security of this critical region . Let me make clear what I mean by the region s stability and security . We do not seek the destruction of Iraq , its culture , or its people . Rather , we seek an Iraq that uses its great resources not to destroy , not to serve the ambitions of a tyrant , but to build a better life for itself and its neighbors . We seek a Persian Gulf where conflict is no longer the rule , where the strong are neither tempted nor able to intimidate the weak . Most Americans know instinctively why we are in the Gulf . They know we had to stop Saddam now , not later . They know that this brutal dictator will do anything , will use any weapon , will commit any outrage , no matter how many innocents suffer . They know we must make sure that control of the world s oil resources does not fall into his hands , only to finance further aggression . They know that we need to build a new , enduring peace , based not on arms races and confrontation but on shared principles and the rule of law . And we all realize that our responsibility to be the catalyst for peace in the region does not end with the successful conclusion of this war . Democracy brings the undeniable value of thoughtful dissent , and we have heard some dissenting voices here at home some , a handful , reckless most responsible . But the fact that all voices have the right to speak out is one of the reasons we have been united in purpose and principle for 200 years . Our progress in this great struggle is the result of years of vigilance and a steadfast commitment to a strong defense . Now , with remarkable technological advances like the Patriot missile , we can defend against ballistic missile attacks aimed at innocent civilians . Looking forward , I have directed that the SDI program be refocused on providing protection from limited ballistic missile strikes , whatever their source . Let us pursue an SDI program that can deal with any future threat to the United States , to our forces overseas , and to our friends and allies . The quality of American technology , thanks to the American worker , has enabled us to successfully deal with difficult military conditions and help minimize precious loss of life . We have given our men and women the very best . And they deserve it . We all have a special place in our hearts for the families of our men and women serving in the Gulf . They are represented here tonight by Norman Schwarzkopf . We are all very grateful to General Schwarzkopf and to all those serving with him . And I might also recognize one who came with Schwarzkopf Alma Powell , the wife of the distinguished Chairman of the Joint Chiefs . And to the families , let me say our forces in the Gulf will not stay there one day longer than is necessary to complete their mission . The courage and success of the RAF pilots , of the Kuwaiti , Saudi , French , the Canadians , the Italians , the pilots of Qatar and Bahrain all are proof that for the first time since World War Ithe international community is united . The leadership of the United Nations , once only a hoped for ideal , is now confirming its founders vision . I am heartened that we are not being asked to bear alone the financial burdens of this struggle . Last year , our friends and allies provided the bulk of the economic costs of Desert Shield . And now , having received commitments of over 40 billion for the first three months of 1991 , I am confident they will do no less as we move through Desert Storm . But the world has to wonder what the dictator of Iraq is thinking . If he thinks that by targeting innocent civilians in Israel and Saudi Arabia , that he will gain advantage , he is dead wrong . If he thinks that he will advance his cause through tragic and despicable environmental terrorism , he is dead wrong . And if he thinks that by abusing the coalition prisoners of war he will benefit , he is dead wrong . We will succeed in the Gulf . And when we do , the world community will have sent an enduring warning to any dictator or despot , present or future , who contemplates outlaw aggression . The world can , therefore , seize this opportunity to fulfill the long held promise of a new world order , where brutality will go unrewarded and aggression will meet collective resistance . Yes , the United States bears a major share of leadership in this effort . Among the nations of the world , only the United States of America has both the moral standing and the means to back it up . We are the only nation on this Earth that could assemble the forces of peace . This is the burden of leadership and the strength that has made America the beacon of freedom in a searching world . This nation has never found glory in war . Our people have never wanted to abandon the blessings of home and work for distant lands and deadly conflict . If we fight in anger , it is only because we have to fight at all . And all of us yearn for a world where we will never have to fight again . Each of us will measure within ourselves the value of this great struggle . Any cost in lives any cost is beyond our power to measure . But the cost of closing our eyes to aggression is beyond mankind s power to imagine . This we do know Our cause is just our cause is moral our cause is right . Let future generations understand the burden and the blessings of freedom . Let them say we stood where duty required us to stand . Let them know that , together , we affirmed America and the world as a community of conscience . The winds of change are with us now . The forces of freedom are together , united . We move toward the next century more confident than ever that we have the will at home and abroad to do what must be done the hard work of freedom . May God bless the United States of America . Thank you very , very much .<speech_sep>Well , I think one thing that distinguishes is experience . I think we have dramatically changed the world . I will talk about that a little bit later , but the changes are mind boggling for world peace . Kids go to bed at night without the same fear of nuclear war . And change for change s sake is not enough . We saw that message in the late seventies when we heard a lot about change . And what happened That misery index went right through the roof . But my economic program , I think , is the kind of change we want . And the way we are going to get it done is we are going to have a brandnew Congress . A lot of them are thrown out because of all the scandals . I will sit down with them , Democrats and Republicans alike , and work for my Agenda for American Renewal which represents real change . But I had say , if you had to separate out , I think it is experience at this level . I just thought of another , another big difference here between me I do not believe Perot feels this way , but I know Governor Clinton did , because I want to accurately quote him . He thinks , I think he said , that the country is coming apart at the seams . Now , I know that the only way he can win is to make everybody believe the economy is worse than it is . But this country s not coming apart at the seams , for heaven sakes . We are the United States of America . In spite of the economic problems , we are the most respected economy around the world . Many would trade for it . We have been caught up in a global slowdown . We can do much , much better . But we ought not to try to convince the American people that America is a country that is coming apart at the seams . I would hate to be running for President and think that the only way I could win would be to convince everybody how horrible things are . Yes , there are big problems . And yes , people are hurting . But I believe that this Agenda for American Renewal I have is the answer to do it . And I believe we can get it done now , whereas we did not in the past , because you are going to have a whole brandnew bunch of people in the Congress that are going to have to listen to the same American people I am listening to . I think the American people should be the judge of that . I think character is a very important question . I said something the other day where I was accused of being like Joe McCarthy because I questioned put it this way I think it is wrong to demonstrate against your own country or organize demonstrations against your own country in foreign soil . I just think it is wrong . Maybe , they say , well , it was a youthful indiscretion . I was 19 or 20 , flying off an aircraft carrier , and that shaped me to be Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces . And I am sorry , but demonstrating it is not a question of patriotism . It is a question of character and judgment . They get on me , Bill s gotten on me about Read my lips . When I make a mistake , I will admit it . But he has not admitted the mistake . And I just find it impossible to understand how an American can demonstrate against his own country in a foreign land , organizing demonstrations against it , when young men are held prisoner in Hanoi or kids out of the ghetto were drafted . Some say , well , you are a little old fashioned . Maybe I am , but I just do not think that is right . Now , whether it is character or judgment , whatever it is , I have a big difference here on this issue . And so we will just have to see how it plays out . But I could not do that . And I do not think most Americans could do that . And they all say , well , it was a long time ago . Well , let us admit it then , say , I made a terrible mistake . How could you be Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces and have some kid say , when you have to make a tough decision , as I did in Panama or in Kuwait , and then have some kid jump up and say , Well , I am not going to go . The Commander in Chief was organizing demonstrations halfway around the world during another era So there are differences . But that is about the main area where I think we have a difference . I do not know about we will talk about that a little with Ross here in a bit . I have to correct one thing . I did not question the man s patriotism I questioned his judgment and his character . What he did in Moscow , that is fine . Let him explain it . He did . I accept that . What I do not accept is demonstrating and organizing demonstrations in a foreign country when your country s at war . I am sorry , I cannot accept that . This one on taxes spells out the biggest difference between us . I do not believe we need to go back to the Mondale proposals or the Dukakis proposals of tax and spend . Governor Clinton says 200 , 000 , but he also says he wants to raise 150 billion . Taxing people over 200 , 000 will not get you 150 billion . And then when you add in his other spending proposals , regrettably , you end up socking it to the working man . That old adage that they use , We are going to soak the rich , we are going to soak the rich , it always ends up being the poor cab driver or the working man that ends up paying the bill . And so I just have a different approach . I believe the way to get the deficit down is to control the growth of mandatory spending programs and not raise taxes on the American people . We have got a big difference there . Well , Sander , that is a good question . And the answer is For 40 some years , we kept the peace . If you look at the cost of not keeping the peace in Europe , it would be exorbitant . We have reduced the number of troops that are deployed and going to be deployed . I have cut defense spending . And the reason we could do that is because of our fantastic success in winning the cold war . We never would have got there if we had gone for the nuclear freeze crowd never would have got there if we had listened to those that wanted to cut defense spending . I think it is important that the United States stay in Europe and continue to guarantee the peace . We simply cannot pull back . Now , when anybody has a spending program they want to spend money on at home , they say , well , let us cut money out of the Defense Department . I will accept and have accepted the recommendations of two proven leaders , General Colin Powell and Dick , Secretary Dick Cheney . They feel that the levels we are operating at and the reductions that I have proposed are proper . And so I simply do not think we should go back to the isolation days and start blaming foreigners . We are the sole remaining superpower . And we should be that . We have a certain disproportionate responsibility . But I would ask the American people to understand that if we make imprudent cuts , if we go too far , we risk the peace . And I do not want to do that . I have seen what it is like to see the burdens of a war , and I do not want to see us make reckless cuts . Because of our programs , we have been able to significantly cut defense spending . But let us not cut into the muscle . And let us not cut down our insurance policy , which is participation of American forces in NATthe greatest peacekeeping organization ever made . Today , you have got problems in Europe still bubbling along , even though Europe s going democracy s route . But we are there . And I think this insurance policy is necessary . I think it goes with world leadership . And I think the levels we have come up with are just about right . The question was on fairness . I just disagree with Well , I assume she was supportive of the decision on McDonnell Douglas . I assume she was supporting me on the decision to sell those airplanes . I think it is a good decision . I took a little heat for it , but I think it was the correct decision to do . And we have worked it out , and indeed , we are moving forward all around the world in a much more peaceful way . So that one we came away with which in creating jobs for the American people . I would simply say to her , look , take a look at what the President has proposed on job retraining . When you cut back on defense spending , some people are going to be thrown out of work . If you throw another 50 , 000 kids on the street because of cutting recklessly in troop levels , you are going to put a lot more out of work . I would say to them , look at the job retraining programs that we are proposing . Therein is the best answer to her . And another one is , stimulate investment and savings . I mean , we have got big economic problems , but we are not coming apart at the seams . We are ready for a recovery with interest rates down and inflation down , the cruelest tax of all caught up in a global slowdown right now , but that will change if you go with the programs I have talked about and if you help with job retraining and education . I am a firm believer that our America 2000 education problem is the answer . A little longer run it is going to take a while to educate , but it is a good program . So her best hope for short term is job retraining if she was thrown out of work at a defense plant . But tell her it is not all that gloomy . We are the United States . We have faced tough problems before . Look at the misery index when the Democrats had both the White House and the Congress . It was just right through the roof . Now , we can do better . And the way to do better is not to tax and spend but to retrain , get that control of the mandatory spending programs . I am much more optimistic about this country than some . Well , we have got a plan announced for what we can do for small business . I have already put forward things that will get this country working fast , some of which have been echoed here tonight investment tax allowance , capital gains reduction , more on research and development , a tax credit for first time homebuyers . What I am going to do is say to Jim Baker when this campaign is over , All right , let us sit down now . You do in domestic affairs what you have done in foreign affairs . Be the kind of economic coordinator of all the domestic side of the house , and that includes all the economic side , all the training side , and bring this program together . We are going to have a new Congress . And we are going to say to them , You have listened to the voters the way we have . Nobody wants gridlock anymore . And so let us get the program through . And I believe it will work , because , as Ross said , we have got the plans . The plans are all over Washington . And I have put ours together in something called the Agenda for American Renewal . And it makes sense . It is sensible . It creates jobs . It gets to the base of the kind of jobs we need . And so I will just be asking for support to get that put into effect . I do not think the Fed ought to be put under the Executive Branch . There is separation there . I think that is fine . Alan Greenspan is respected . I have had some arguments with him about the speed in which we might have lowered rates . But Governor Clinton , he talks about the reaction to the markets . There was a momentary fear that he might win , and the markets went rrrfft down like that so I do not we can judge on the stock market has been strong . It is been very strong since I have been President . And they recognize we have got great difficulties . But they are also much more optimistic than the pessimists we have up here tonight . In terms of vetoing tax bills , you are darn right . I am going to protect the American taxpayer against the spend and tax Congress . And I am going to keep on vetoing them because I do not think we are taxed too little . I think the Government s spending too much . So Governor Clinton can label it tax for the rich or anything he wants . I am going to protect the working man by continuing to veto and to threaten veto until we get this new Congress , when then we are going to move forward on our plan . I ve got to protect them . We still are the envy of the world in terms of our military there is no question about that . We are the envy of the world in terms of our economy , in spite of the difficulties we are having there is no question about that . Our exports are dramatically up . I might say to Perot , I can understand why you might have missed it because there is so much fascination by trivia , but I worked out a deal with Boris Yeltsin to eliminate , get rid of entirely , the most destabilizing weapons of all , the SS 18 , the big intercontinental ballistic missile . I mean , that is been done . And thank God it has , because the parents of these young people around here go to bed at night without the same fear of nuclear war . We have made dramatic progress . So we have got a good military the question that says get a new military , get the best in the world we have got it , and they are keeping the peace . They are respected around the world , and we are more respected because of the way we have conducted ourselves . We did not listen to the nuclear freeze crowd . We said , peace through strength . It worked , and the cold war is over . America understands that . But we are turned so inward we do not understand the global picture . We are helping democracy . Ross , the Freedom Support Act is something that I got through the Congress , and it is a very good thing because it does exactly what you say , and I think you agree with that , to help Russian democracy . We are going to keep on doing that . Well , the administration was the first major country to stand up against the abuse in Tiananmen Square . We are the ones that worked out the prison labor deal . We are the ones that have lowered the barrier to products , the Carla Hills negotiation . I am the one that said , let us keep the MFN because you see China moving toward a free market economy . To do what the Congress and Governor Clinton are suggesting , you would isolate and ruin Hong Kong . They are making some progress , not enough for us . We were the first ones to put sanctions on . We still have them on some things . But Governor Clinton s philosophy is isolate them . He says do not do it , but the policies he is expounding of putting conditions on MFN and kind of humiliating them is not the way you make the kind of progress we are getting . I have stood up with these people , and I understand what you have to do to be strong in this situation . It is moving , not as fast as we had like . But you isolate China and turn them inward , and then we have made a tremendous mistake . I am not going to do it . I have had to fight a lot of people that were saying human rights . We are the ones that put the sanctions on and stood for it . And he can insult General Scowcroft if he wants to . He did not go over to coddle . He went over to say you must make the very changes they are making now . Ann , both of them are very complicated situations . I vowed something , because I learned something from Vietnam I am not going to commit forces until I know what the mission is , until the military tell me that it can be completed , until I know how they can come out . We are helping . American airplanes are helping today on humanitarian relief for Sarajevo . It is America that is in the lead in helping with humanitarian relief for Somalia . But when you go to put somebody else s son or daughter into war , I think you have got to be a little bit careful , and you have to be sure that there is a military plan that can do this . You have ancient ethnic rivalries that have cropped up as Yugoslavia is dissolved or getting dissolved . It is not going to be solved by sending in the 82d Airborne , and I am not going to do that as Commander in Chief . I am going to stand by and use the moral persuasion of the United States to get satisfaction in terms of prison camps , and we are making some progress there , and in terms of getting humanitarian relief in there . Right now , as you know , the United States took the lead in a no fly operation up there , no fly order up in the United Nations . We are working through the international organizations . That is one thing I learned by forging that tremendous and greatly , highly successful coalition against Saddam Hussein , the dictator Work internationally to do it . I am very concerned about it . I am concerned about ethnic cleansing . I am concerned about attacks on Muslims , for example , over there . But I must stop short of using American force until I know how those young men and women are going to get out of there as well as get in , know what the mission is and define it . I think I am on the right track . Compton . Are you designing a mission that would Well , I would say that one meeting that made a profound impression on me was when the mayors of the big cities , including the Mayor of Los Angeles , a Democrat , came to see me , and they unanimously said the decline in urban America stems from the decline in the American family . So I do think we need to strengthen family . When Barbara holds an AIDS baby , she is showing a certain compassion for family . When she reads to children , the same thing . I believe that discipline and respect for the law , all of these things , should be taught to children , not in our schools but families have to do that . I am appalled at the high , outrageous numbers of divorces . It is happened in families it is happened in ours . But it is gotten too much , and I just think that we ought to do everything we can to respect the American family . It can be a single parent family . Those mothers need help . One way to do it is to get these deadbeat fathers to pay their obligations to these mothers . That will help strengthen the American family . And there is a whole bunch of other things that I cannot click off in this short period of time . Sandy will ask it . Legalization of Drugs Vanocur . President , there is been a lot of talk about Harry Truman in this campaign , so much so that I think tomorrow I will wake up and see him named as the next commissioner of baseball . We could use one . Vanocur . The thing that Truman did not have to deal with is drugs . Americans are increasingly alarmed about drug related crimes in cities and suburbs , and your administration is not the first to have grappled with this . Are you at all of a mind that maybe it ought to go to another level , if not to what is advocated by William Buckley , , and Milton Friedman , legalization , somewhere between there and where we are now No . I do not think that is the right answer . I do not believe legalizing narcotics is the answer . I just do not believe that is the answer . I do believe that there is some fairly good news out there . The use of cocaine , for example , by teenagers is dramatically down . But we have got to keep fighting on this war against drugs . We are doing a little better in interdiction . Many of the countries that used to say , Well , this is a United States problem . If you had get the demand down , then we would not have the problem , are working cooperatively with the DEA and other law the military . We are using the military more now in terms of interdiction . Our funding for recovery is up , recovering the addicts . Where we are not making the progress , Sander , is in we are making it in teenagers . And thank God , because I thought what Ross said was most appropriate about these families and these children . But where we are not making it is with the confirmed addicts . I will tell you one place that is working well , and that is the private sector , Jim Burke and this task force that he has . You may know about it . Tell the American people , but this man said , I will get you a million dollars a day in pro bono advertising , something that is very hard for the Government to do . He went out and he did it , and people are beginning to educate through this program , teaching these kids you should not use drugs . So we are still in the fight . But I must tell you , I think legalization of narcotics or something of that nature , in the face of the medical evidence , would be totally counterproductive . And I oppose it , and I am going to stand up and continue to oppose it . Well , I think Governor Clinton is committed . I do think it is fair to note he can rebut it that Arkansas is one of the few states that does not have any civil rights legislation . I have tried to use the White House as a bully pulpit , speaking out against discrimination . We passed two very forward looking civil rights bills . It is not going to be all done by legislation , but I do think that you need to make an appeal every time you can to eliminate racial divisions and discrimination . And I will keep on doing that and pointing to some legislative accomplishment to back it up . I have to take 10 seconds here at the end the red light is not on yet to say to Ross Perot , please do not say to the DEA agents on the street that we do not have the will to fight drugs . Please , I have watched these people . The same for our local law enforcement people we are backing them in every way we possibly can . But maybe you meant that some in the country do not have the will to fight it . But those that are out there on the front line as you know you have been a strong backer of law enforcement really , I just want to clear that up have the will to fight it . And frankly , some of them are giving their lives . Coming from the political process . We have increased funding for AIDWe have doubled it , on research and on every other aspect of it . My request for this year was 4 . 9 billion for AID10 times as much for AIDS victim as per cancer victim . I think that we are showing the proper compassion and concern . So I cannot tell you where it is coming from , but I am very much concerned about AIDand I believe that we have got the best researchers in the world out there at NIH working the problem . We are funding them . I wish there was more money , but we are funding them far more than any time in the past . We are going to keep on doing that . I do not know , I was a little disappointed in Magic , because he came to me and I said , Now , if you see something we are not doing , get ahold of me , call me , let me know . He went to one meeting , and then we heard that he was stepping down . So he is been replaced by Mary Fisher , who electrified the Republican Convention by talking about the compassion and the concern that we feel . It was a beautiful moment . And I think she will do a first class job on that Commission . So I think the appeal is , yes , we care . The other thing is , part of AIDit is one of the few diseases where behavior matters . And I once called on somebody , Well , change your behavior . If the behavior you are using is prone to cause AIDchange the behavior . The next thing I know , one of these ACT UP groups is out saying , Bush ought to change his behavior . You cannot talk about it rationally . The extremes are hurting the AIDS cause . To go into a Catholic mass in a beautiful cathedral in New York under the cause of helping in AIDS and start throwing condoms around in the mass , I am sorry , I think it sets back the cause . We cannot move to the extreme . We have got to care . We have got to continue everything we can at the Federal and the local level . Barbara , I think , is doing a superb job in destroying the myth about AIDAll of us are in this fight together . All of us care . Do not go to the extreme . because the people , not the special interests , put me there . I will have a unique mandate . I have said again and again , and this really upsets the establishment in Washington , that we are going to inform the people in detail on the issues through an electronic town hall so that they really know what is going on . They will want to do what is good for our country . Now , all these fellows with thousand dollar suits and alligator shoes running up and down the Halls of Congress that make policy now , the lobbyists , the PAC guys , the foreign lobbyists , what have you , they will be over there in the Smithsonian because we are going to get rid of them . The Congress will be listening to the people . And the American people are willing to have fair , shared sacrifice . They are not as stupid as Washington thinks they are . The American people are bright , intelligent , caring , loving people who want a great country for their children and grandchildren . They will make those sacrifices . So I welcome that challenge . And just watch , because if the American people send me there , we will get it done . Now , everybody will faint in Washington . They have never seen anything happen in that town . This is a town where the White House says , Congress did it . Congress says , The White House did it . And I am sitting there and saying , Well , who else could be around And then when they get off by themselves , they said , Nobody did it . And yet , the cash register is empty . And it used to have our money , the taxpayers money , in it , and we did not get the results . We will get it done . Well , first place I had like to clear up something , because every 4 years the Democrats go around and say , Hey , Republicans are going to cut Social Security and Medicare . They have started it again . I am the President that stood up and said , Do not mess with Social Security . And I am not going to , and we have not . We are not going to go after the Social Security recipient . I have one difference with Perot on that because I do not think we need to touch Social Security . What we do need to do , though , is control the growth of these mandatory programs . And Ross properly says , Okay , there is some pain in that . But Governor Clinton refuses to touch that , simply refuses . So what we have got to do is control it , the growth . Let it grow for inflation let it grow for the amount of new people added , population . And then hold the line . I believe that is the way you get the deficit down , not by the tax and spend program that we hear every 4 years , whether it is Mondale , Dukakis , whoever else it is . I just do not believe we ought to do that . So hold the line on Social Security , and put a cap on the growth of the mandatory program . Well , I do not have time in 30 seconds or one minute to talk about our health care reform plan . The Oregon plan made some good sense , but it is easy to dismiss the concerns of the disabled . As President , I have to be sure that those waivers which we are approving all over the place are covered under the law . Maybe we can work it out . But the Americans for Disabilities Act , speaking about sound and sensible civil rights legislation , was the foremost piece of legislation passed in modern times . So we do have something more than a technical problem . Governor Clinton clicked off the things You have got to take on insurance companies and bureaucracies . He failed to take on somebody else , the malpractice suit people , those that bring these lawsuits against these frivolous trial lawyers lawsuits that are running costs of medical care up by 25 billion to 50 billion . He refuses to put anything controls on these crazy lawsuits . If you want to help somebody , do not run the costs up by making doctors have to have five or six tests where one would do for fear of being sued , or have somebody along the highway not stop to pick up a guy and help him because he is afraid a trial lawyer will come along and sue him . We are suing each other too much and caring for each other too little . Well , let me tell you a little what it is like to be President . In the Oval Office , you cannot predict what kind of crisis is going to come up . You have to make tough calls . You cannot be on one hand this way and one hand another . You cannot take different positions on these difficult issues . Then you need a philosophical I had call it a philosophical underpinning mine for foreign affairs is democracy and freedom . Look at the dramatic changes around the world . The cold war is over . The Soviet Union is no more , and we are working with a democratic country . Poland , Hungary , Czechoslovakia , the Baltics are free . Take a look at the Middle East . We had to stand up against a tyrant . The United States came together as we have not in many , many years . We kicked this man out of Kuwait . In the process , as a result of that will and that decision and that toughness , we now have ancient enemies talking peace in the Middle East . Nobody would have dreamed it possible . I think the biggest dividend of making these tough calls is the fact that we are less afraid of nuclear war . Every parent out there has much less worry that their kids are going to be faced with nuclear holocaust . All this is good . On the domestic side , what we must do is have change that empowers people , not change for the sake of change , tax and spend . We do not need to do that anymore . What we need to do is empower people . We need to invest and save . We need to do better in education . We need to do better in job retraining . We need to expand our exports , and they are going very , very well indeed . We need to strengthen the American family . I hope as President that I have earned your trust . I have admitted it when I make a mistake , but then I go on and help try to solve the problems . I hope I have earned your trust , because a lot of being President is about trust and character . And I ask for your support for 4 more years to finish this job . Thank you very , very much .<speech_sep>Speaker , President , and distinguished Members of the House and Senate , honored guests , and fellow citizens Less than 3 weeks ago , I joined you on the West Front of this very building and , looking over the monuments to our proud past , offered you my hand in filling the next page of American history with a story of extended prosperity and continued peace . And tonight I am back to offer you my plans as well . The hand remains extended the sleeves are rolled up America is waiting and now we must produce . Together , we can build a better America . It is comforting to return to this historic Chamber . Here , 22 years ago , I first raised my hand to be sworn into public life . So , tonight I feel as if I am returning home to friends . And I intend , in the months and years to come , to give you what friends deserve frankness , respect , and my best judgment about ways to improve America s future . In return , I ask for an honest commitment to our common mission of progress . If we seize the opportunities on the road before us , there ll be praise enough for all . The people did not send us here to bicker , and it is time to govern . And many Presidents have come to this Chamber in times of great crisis war and depression , loss of national spirit . And 8 years ago , I sat in that very chair as President Reagan spoke of punishing inflation and devastatingly high interest rates and people out of work American confidence on the wane . And our challenge is different . We are fortunate a much changed landscape lies before us tonight . So , I do not propose to reverse direction . We are headed the right way , but we cannot rest . We are a people whose energy and drive have fueled our rise to greatness . And we are a forward looking nation generous , yes , but ambitious , not for ourselves but for the world . Complacency is not in our character not before , not now , not ever . And so , tonight we must take a strong America and make it even better . We must address some very real problems . We must establish some very clear priorities . And we must make a very substantial cut in the Federal budget deficit . Some people find that agenda impossible , but I am presenting to you tonight a realistic plan for tackling it . My plan has four broad features attention to urgent priorities , investment in the future , an attack on the deficit , and no new taxes . This budget represents my best judgment of how we can address our priorities . There are many areas in which we would all like to spend more than I propose I understand that . But we cannot until we get our fiscal house in order . Next year alone , thanks to economic growth , without any change in the law , the Federal Government will take in over 80 billion more than it does this year . That is right over 80 billion in new revenues , with no increases in taxes . And our job is to allocate those new resources wisely . We can afford to increase spending by a modest amount , but enough to invest in key priorities and still cut the deficit by almost 40 percent in 1 year . And that will allow us to meet the targets set forth in the Gramm Rudman Hollings law . But to do that , we must recognize that growth above inflation in Federal programs is not preordained , that not all spending initiatives were designed to be immortal . I make this pledge tonight My team and I are ready to work with the Congress , to form a special leadership group , to negotiate in good faith , to work day and night if that is what it takes to meet the budget targets and to produce a budget on time . We cannot settle for business as usual . Government by continuing resolution , or government by crisis , will not do . And I ask the Congress tonight to approve several measures which will make budgeting more sensible . We could save time and improve efficiency by enacting 2 year budgets . Forty three Governors have the line item veto . Presidents should have it , too . And at the very least , when a President proposes to rescind Federal spending , the Congress should be required to vote on that proposal instead of killing it by inaction . And I ask the Congress to honor the public s wishes by passing a constitutional amendment to require a balanced budget . Such an amendment , once phased in , will discipline both the Congress and the executive branch . Several principles describe the kind of America I hope to build with your help in the years ahead . We will not have the luxury of taking the easy , spendthrift approach to solving problems because higher spending and higher taxes put economic growth at risk . Economic growth provides jobs and hope . Economic growth enables us to pay for social programs . Economic growth enhances the security of the Nation , and low tax rates create economic growth . I believe in giving Americans greater freedom and greater choice . And I will work for choice for American families , whether in the housing in which they live , the schools to which they send their children , or the child care they select for their young . You see , I believe that we have an obligation to those in need , but that government should not be the provider of first resort for things that the private sector can produce better . I believe in a society that is free from discrimination and bigotry of any kind . And I will work to knock down the barriers left by past discrimination and to build a more tolerant society that will stop such barriers from ever being built again . I believe that family and faith represent the moral compass of the Nation . And I will work to make them strong , for as Benjamin Franklin said If a sparrow cannot fall to the ground without His notice , can a great nation rise without His aid And I believe in giving people the power to make their own lives better through growth and opportunity . And together , let us put power in the hands of people . Three weeks ago , we celebrated the bicentennial inaugural , the 200th anniversary of the first Presidency . And if you look back , one thing is so striking about the way the Founding Fathers looked at America . They did not talk about themselves . They talked about posterity . They talked about the future . And we , too , must think in terms bigger than ourselves . We must take actions today that will ensure a better tomorrow . We must extend American leadership in technology , increase long term investment , improve our educational system , and boost productivity . These are the keys to building a better future , and here are some of my recommendations I propose almost 2 . 2 billion for the National Science Foundation to promote basic research and keep us on track to double its budget by 1993 . I propose to make permanent the tax credit for research and development . I have asked Vice President Quayle to chair a new Task Force on Competitiveness . And I request funding for NASand a strong space program , an increase of almost 2 . 4 billion over the current fiscal year . We must have a manned space station a vigorous , safe space shuttle program and more commercial development in space . The space program should always go full throttle up . And that is not just our ambition it is our destiny . I propose that we cut the maximum tax rate on capital gains to increase long term investment . History on this is clear this will increase revenues , help savings , and create new jobs . We will not be competitive if we leave whole sectors of America behind . This is the year we should finally enact urban enterprise zones and bring hope to the inner cities . But the most important competitiveness program of all is one which improves education in America . When some of our students actually have trouble locating America on a map of the world , it is time for us to map a new approach to education . We must reward excellence and cut through bureaucracy . We must help schools that need help the most . We must give choice to parents , students , teachers , and principals and we must hold all concerned accountable . In education , we cannot tolerate mediocrity . I want to cut that dropout rate and make America a more literate nation , because what it really comes down to is this The longer our graduation lines are today , the shorter our unemployment lines will be tomorrow . So , tonight I am proposing the following initiatives the beginning of a 500 million program to reward America s best schools , merit schools the creation of special Presidential awards for the best teachers in every State , because excellence should be rewarded the establishment of a new program of National Science Scholars , one each year for every Member of the House and Senate , to give this generation of students a special incentive to excel in science and mathematics the expanded use of magnet schools , which give families and students greater choice and a new program to encourage alternative certification , which will let talented people from all fields teach in our classrooms . I have said I had like to be the Education President . And tonight , I had ask you to join me by becoming the Education Congress . Just last week , as I settled into this new office , I received a letter from a mother in Pennsylvania who had been struck by my message in the Inaugural Address . Not 12 hours before , she wrote , my husband and I received word that our son was addicted to cocaine . He had the world at his feet . Bright , gifted , personable he could have done anything with his life . And now he has chosen cocaine . And please , she wrote , find a way to curb the supply of cocaine . Get tough with the pushers . Our son needs your help . My friends , that voice crying out for help could be the voice of your own neighbor , your own friend , your own son . Over 23 million Americans used illegal drugs last year , at a staggering cost to our nation s well being . Let this be recorded as the time when America rose up and said no to drugs . The scourge of drugs must be stopped . And I am asking tonight for an increase of almost a billion dollars in budget outlays to escalate the war against drugs . The war must be waged on all fronts . Our new drug czar , Bill Bennett , and I will be shoulder to shoulder in the executive branch leading the charge . Some money will be used to expand treatment to the poor and to young mothers . This will offer the helping hand to the many innocent victims of drugs , like the thousands of babies born addicted or with AIDS because of the mother s addiction . Some will be used to cut the waiting time for treatment . Some money will be devoted to those urban schools where the emergency is now the worst . And much of it will be used to protect our borders , with help from the Coast Guard and the Customs Service , the Departments of State and Justice , and , yes , the military . I mean to get tough on the drug criminals . And let me be clear This President will back up those who put their lives on the line every single day our local police officers . My budget asks for beefed up prosecution , for a new attack on organized crime , and for enforcement of tough sentences and for the worst kingpins , that means the death penalty . I also want to make sure that when a drug dealer is convicted there is a cell waiting for him . And he should not go free because prisons are too full . And so , let the word go out If you are caught and convicted , you will do time . But for all we do in law enforcement , in interdiction and treatment , we will never win this war on drugs unless we stop the demand for drugs . So , some of this increase will be used to educate the young about the dangers of drugs . We must involve the parents . We must involve the teachers . We must involve the communities . And , my friends , we must involve ourselves , each and every one of us in this concern . One problem related to drug use demands our urgent attention and our continuing compassion , and that is the terrible tragedy of AIDI am asking for 1 . 6 billion for education to prevent the disease and for research to find a cure . If we are to protect our future , we need a new attitude about the environment . We must protect the air we breathe . I will send to you shortly legislation for a new , more effective Clean Air Act . It will include a plan to reduce by date certain the emissions which cause acid rain , because the time for study alone has passed , and the time for action is now . We must make use of clean coal . My budget contains full funding , on schedule , for the clean coal technology agreement that we have made with Canada . We have made that agreement with Canada , and we intend to honor that agreement . We must not neglect our parks . So , I am asking to fund new acquisitions under the Land and Water Conservation Fund . We must protect our oceans . And I support new penalties against those who would dump medical waste and other trash into our oceans . The age of the needle on the beaches must end . And in some cases , the gulfs and oceans off our shores hold the promise of oil and gas reserves which can make our nation more secure and less dependent on foreign oil . And when those with the most promise can be tapped safely , as with much of the Alaska National Wildlife Refuge , we should proceed . But we must use caution we must respect the environment . And so , tonight I am calling for the indefinite postponement of three lease sales which have raised troubling questions , two off the coast of California and one which could threaten the Everglades in Florida . Action on these three lease sales will await the conclusion of a special task force set up to measure the potential for environmental damage . I am directing the Attorney General and the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency to use every tool at their disposal to speed and toughen the enforcement of our laws against toxic waste dumpers . I want faster cleanups and tougher enforcement of penalties against polluters . In addition to caring for our future , we must care for those around us . A decent society shows compassion for the young , the elderly , the vulnerable , and the poor . Our first obligation is to the most vulnerable infants , poor mothers , children living in poverty and my proposed budget recognizes this . I ask for full funding of Medicaid , an increase of over 3 billion , and an expansion of the program to include coverage of pregnant women who are near the poverty line . I believe we should help working families cope with the burden of child care . Our help should be aimed at those who need it most low income families with young children . I support a new child care tax credit that will aim our efforts at exactly those families , without discriminating against mothers who choose to stay at home . Now , I know there are competing proposals . But remember this The overwhelming majority of all preschool child care is now provided by relatives and neighbors and churches and community groups . Families who choose these options should remain eligible for help . Parents should have choice . And for those children who are unwanted or abused or whose parents are deceased , we should encourage adoption . I propose to reenact the tax deduction for adoption expenses and to double it to 3 , 000 . Let us make it easier for these kids to have parents who love them . We have a moral contract with our senior citizens . And in this budget , Social Security is fully funded , including a full cost of living adjustment . We must honor our contract . We must care about those in the shadow of life , and like many Americans , am deeply troubled by the plight of the homeless . The causes of homelessness are many the history is long . But the moral imperative to act is clear . Thanks to the deep well of generosity in this great land , many organizations already contribute , but we in government cannot stand on the sidelines . In my budget , I ask for greater support for emergency food and shelter , for health services and measures to prevent substance abuse , and for clinics for the mentally ill . And I propose a new initiative involving the full range of government agencies . We must confront this national shame . There is another issue that I have decided to mention here tonight . I have long believed that the people of Puerto Rico should have the right to determine their own political future . Personally , I strongly favor statehood . But I urge the Congress to take the necessary steps to allow the people to decide in a referendum . Certain problems , the result of decades of unwise practices , threaten the health and security of our people . Left unattended , they will only get worse . But we can act now to put them behind us . Earlier this week , I announced my support for a plan to restore the financial and moral integrity of our savings system . I ask Congress to enact our reform proposals within 45 days . We must not let this situation fester . We owe it to the savers in this country to solve this problem . Certainly , the savings of Americans must remain secure . Let me be clear Insured depositors will continue to be fully protected , but any plan to refinance the system must be accompanied by major reform . Our proposals will prevent such a crisis from recurring . The best answer is to make sure that a mess like this will never happen again . The majority of thrifts in communities across the Nation have been honest . They have played a major role in helping families achieve the dream of home ownership . But make no mistake , those who are corrupt , those who break the law , must be kicked out of the business and they should go to jail . We face a massive task in cleaning up the waste left from decades of environmental neglect at America s nuclear weapons plants . Clearly , we must modernize these plants and operate them safely . That is not at issue our national security depends on it . But beyond that , we must clean up the old mess that is been left behind . And I propose in this budget to more than double our current effort to do so . This will allow us to identify the exact nature of the various problems so we can clean them up , and clean them up we will . We have been fortunate during these past 8 years . America is a stronger nation than it was in 1980 . Morale in our Armed Forces has been restored our resolve has been shown . Our readiness has been improved , and we are at peace . There can no longer be any doubt that peace has been made more secure through strength . And when America is stronger , the world is safer . Most people do not realize that after the successful restoration of our strength , the Pentagon budget has actually been reduced in real terms for each of the last 4 years . We cannot tolerate continued real reduction in defense . In light of the compelling need to reduce the deficit , however , I support a 1 year freeze in the military budget , something I proposed last fall in my flexible freeze plan . And this freeze will apply for only 1 year , and after that , increases above inflation will be required . I will not sacrifice American preparedness , and I will not compromise American strength . I should be clear on the conditions attached to my recommendation for the coming year The savings must be allocated to those priorities for investing in our future that I have spoken about tonight . This defense freeze must be a part of a comprehensive budget agreement which meets the targets spelled out in Gramm Rudman Hollings law without raising taxes and which incorporates reforms in the budget process . I have directed the National Security Council to review our national security and defense policies and report back to me within 90 days to ensure that our capabilities and resources meet our commitments and strategies . I am also charging the Department of Defense with the task of developing a plan to improve the defense procurement process and management of the Pentagon , one which will fully implement the Packard commission report . Many of these changes can only be made with the participation of the Congress , and so , I ask for your help . We need fewer regulations . We need less bureaucracy . We need multiyear procurement and 2 year budgeting . And frankly and do not take this wrong we need less congressional micromanagement of our nation s military policy . I detect a slight division on that question , but nevertheless . Securing a more peaceful world is perhaps the most important priority I had like to address tonight . You know , we meet at a time of extraordinary hope . Never before in this century have our values of freedom , democracy , and economic opportunity been such a powerful and intellectual force around the globe . Never before has our leadership been so crucial , because while America has its eyes on the future , the world has its eyes on America . And it is a time of great change in the world , and especially in the Soviet Union . Prudence and common sense dictate that we try to understand the full meaning of the change going on there , review our policies , and then proceed with caution . But I have personally assured General Secretary Gorbachev that at the conclusion of such a review we will be ready to move forward . We will not miss any opportunity to work for peace . The fundamental facts remain that the Soviets retain a very powerful military machine in the service of objectives which are still too often in conflict with ours . So , let us take the new openness seriously , but let us also be realistic . And let us always be strong . There are some pressing issues we must address . I will vigorously pursue the Strategic Defense Initiative . The spread , and even use , of sophisticated weaponry threatens global security as never before . Chemical weapons must be banned from the face of the Earth , never to be used again . And look , this will not be easy . Verification extraordinarily difficult , but civilization and human decency demand that we try . And the spread of nuclear weapons must be stopped . And I will work to strengthen the hand of the International Atomic Energy Agency . Our diplomacy must work every day against the proliferation of nuclear weapons . And around the globe , we must continue to be freedom s best friend . And we must stand firm for self determination and democracy in Central America , including in Nicaragua . It is my strongly held conviction that when people are given the chance they inevitably will choose a free press , freedom of worship , and certifiably free and fair elections . We must strengthen the alliance of the industrial democracies , as solid a force for peace as the world has ever known . And this is an alliance forged by the power of our ideals , not the pettiness of our differences . So , let us lift our sights to rise above fighting about beef hormones , to building a better future , to move from protectionism to progress . I have asked the Secretary of State to visit Europe next week and to consult with our allies on the wide range of challenges and opportunities we face together , including East West relations . And I look forward to meeting with our NATO partners in the near future . And too , shall begin a trip shortly to the far reaches of the Pacific Basin , where the winds of democracy are creating new hope and the power of free markets is unleashing a new force . When I served as our representative in China 14 or 15 years ago , few would have predicted the scope of the changes we have witnessed since then . But in preparing for this trip , I was struck by something I came across from a Chinese writer . He was speaking of his country , decades ago , but his words speak to each of us in America tonight . Today , he said , we are afraid of the simple words like goodness and mercy and kindness . My friends , if we are to succeed as a nation , we must rediscover those words . In just 3 days , we mark the birthday of Abraham Lincoln , the man who saved our Union and gave new meaning to the word opportunity . Lincoln once said I hold that while man exists , it is his duty to improve not only his own condition but to assist in ameliorating that of mankind . It is this broader mission to which I call all Americans , because the definition of a successful life must include serving others . And to the young people of America , who sometimes feel left out , I ask you tonight to give us the benefit of your talent and energy through a new program called YEfor Youth Entering Service to America . To those men and women in business , remember the ultimate end of your work to make a better product , to create better lives . I ask you to plan for the longer term and avoid that temptation of quick and easy paper profits . To the brave men and women who wear the uniform of the United States of America , thank you . Your calling is a high one to be the defenders of freedom and the guarantors of liberty . And I want you to know that this nation is grateful for your service . To the farmers of America , we appreciate the bounty you provide . We will work with you to open foreign markets to American agricultural products . And to the parents of America , I ask you to get involved in your child s schooling . Check on the homework , go to the school , meet the teachers , care about what is happening there . It is not only your child s future on the line , it is America s . To kids in our cities , do not give up hope . Say no to drugs stay in school . And , yes , Keep hope alive . To those 37 million Americans with some form of disability , you belong in the economic mainstream . We need your talents in America s work force . Disabled Americans must become full partners in America s opportunity society . To the families of America watching tonight in your living rooms , hold fast to your dreams because ultimately America s future rests in your hands . And to my friends in this Chamber , I ask your cooperation to keep America growing while cutting the deficit . That is only fair to those who now have no vote the generations to come . Let them look back and say that we had the foresight to understand that a time of peace and prosperity is not the time to rest but a time to press forward , a time to invest in the future . And let all Americans remember that no problem of human making is too great to be overcome by human ingenuity , human energy , and the untiring hope of the human spirit . I believe this . I would not have asked to be your President if I did not . And tomorrow the debate on the plan I have put forward begins , and I ask the Congress to come forward with your own proposals . Let us not question each other s motives . Let us debate , let us negotiate but let us solve the problem . Recalling anniversaries may not be my specialty in speeches but tonight is one of some note . On February 9th , 1941 , just 48 years ago tonight , Sir Winston Churchill took to the airwaves during Britain s hour of peril . He had received from President Roosevelt a hand carried letter quoting Longfellow s famous poem Sail on , O Ship of State Sail on , O Union , strong and great Humanity with all its fears , With all the hopes of future years , Is hanging breathless on thy fate And Churchill responded on this night by radio broadcast to a nation at war , but he directed his words to Franklin Roosevelt . We shall not fail or falter , he said . We shall not weaken or tire . Give us the tools , and we will finish the job . Tonight , almost half a century later , our peril may be less immediate , but the need for perseverance and clear sighted fortitude is just as great . Now , as then , there are those who say it cannot be done . There are voices who say that America s best days have passed , that we are bound by constraints , threatened by problems , surrounded by troubles which limit our ability to hope . Well , tonight I remain full of hope . We Americans have only begun on our mission of goodness and greatness . And to those timid souls , I repeat the plea Give us the tools , and we will do the job . Thank you . God bless you , and God bless America .<speech_sep>Tonight I want to talk to you about a problem that has lingered and dogged and vexed this country for far too long the Federal budget deficit . Thomas Paine said many years ago , These are the times that try men s souls . As we speak , our nation is standing together against Saddam Hussein s aggression . But here at home there is another threat , a cancer gnawing away at our nation s health . That cancer is the budget deficit . Year after year , it mortgages the future of our children . No family , no nation can continue to do business the way the Federal Government has been operating and survive . When you get a bill , that bill must be paid . And when you write a check , you are supposed to have money in the bank . But if you do not obey these simple rules of common sense , there is a price to pay . But for too long , the Nation s business in Washington has been conducted as if these basic rules did not apply . Well , these rules do apply . And if we fail to act , next year alone we will face a Federal budget deficit of more than 300 billion , a deficit that could weaken our economy further and cost us thousands of precious jobs . If what goes up must come down , then the way down could be very hard . But it does not have to be that way . We can do something . In fact , we have started to do something . But we must act this week , when Congress will hold the first of two crucial up or down votes . These votes will be on a deficit reduction agreement worked out between the administration and the bipartisan leaders of Congress . This budget agreement is the result of 8 months of blood , sweat , and fears fears of the economic chaos that would follow if we fail to reduce the deficit . Of course , I cannot claim it is the best deficit reduction plan possible . It is not . Any one of us alone might have written a better plan . But it is the best agreement that can be legislated now . It is the biggest deficit reduction agreement ever half a trillion dollars . It is the toughest deficit reduction package ever , with new enforcement rules to make sure that what we fix now stays fixed . And it has the largest spending savings ever more than 300 billion . For the first time , a Republican President and leaders of a Democratic Congress have agreed to real cuts that will be enforced by law , not promises no smoke , no mirrors , no magic act , but real and lasting spending cuts . This agreement will also raise revenue . I am not , and I know you are not , a fan of tax increases . But if there have to be tax measures , they should allow the economy to grow , they should not turn us back to higher income tax rates , and they should be fair . Everyone who can should contribute something , and no one should have to contribute beyond their fair share . Our bipartisan agreement meets these tests . And through specific new incentives , it will help create more jobs . It is a little known fact , but America s best job creators and greatest innovators tend to be our smaller companies . So , our budget plan will give small and medium size companies a needed shot in the arm . Just as important , I am convinced that this agreement will help lower interest rates . And lower interest rates mean savings for consumers , lower mortgage payments for new homeowners , and more investment to produce more jobs . And that is what this agreement will do . Now , let me tell you what this agreement will not do . It will not raise income tax rates , personal or corporate . It will not mess with Social Security in any way . It will not put America s national security at risk . And most of all , it will not let our economy slip out of control . Clearly , each and every one of us can find fault with something in this agreement . In fact , that is a burden that any truly fair solution must carry . Any workable solution must be judged as a whole , not piece by piece . Those who dislike one part or another may pick our agreement apart . But if they do , believe me , the political reality is , no one can put a better one back together again . Everyone will bear a small burden . But if we succeed , every American will have a large burden lifted . If we fail to enact this agreement , our economy will falter , markets may tumble , and recession will follow . In just a moment , the Democratic majority leader , Senator Mitchell , will offer what is known as the Democratic response , often a rebuttal . But not tonight . Tonight the Democratic and Republican leadership and I all speak with one voice in support of this agreement . Tonight we ask you to help us move this agreement forward . The congressional leadership and I both have a job to do in getting it enacted . And tonight I ask for your help . First , I ask you to understand how important and for some , how difficult this vote is for your Congressmen and Senators . Many worry about your reaction to one part or another . But I know you know the importance of the whole . And so , second , I ask you to take this initiative Tell your Congressmen and Senators you support this deficit reduction agreement . If they are Republicans , urge them to stand with the President . Urge them to do what the bipartisan leadership has done come together in the spirit of compromise to solve this national problem . If they are Democrats , urge them to stand with their congressional leaders . Ask them to fight for the future of your kids by supporting this budget agreement . Now is the time for you , the American people , to have a real impact . Your Senators and Congressmen need to know that you want this deficit brought down , that the time for politics and posturing is over , and the time to come together is now . This deficit reduction agreement is tough , and so are the times . The agreement is fair , and so is the American spirit . The agreement is bipartisan , and so is the vote . The agreement is real , and so is this crisis . This is the first time in my Presidency that I have made an appeal like this to you , the American people . With your help , we can at last put this budget crisis behind us and face the other challenges that lie ahead . If we do , the long term result will be a healthier nation and something more We will have once again put ourselves on the path of economic growth , and we will have demonstrated that no challenge is greater than the determination of the American people . Thank you . God bless you , and good night .<speech_sep>Chief Justice , President , Vice President Quayle , Senator Mitchell , Speaker Wright , Senator Dole , Congressman Michel , and fellow citizens , neighbors , and friends There is a man here who has earned a lasting place in our hearts and in our history . President Reagan , on behalf of our nation , I thank you for the wonderful things that you have done for America . I have just repeated word for word the oath taken by George Washington 200 years ago , and the Bible on which I placed my hand is the Bible on which he placed his . It is right that the memory of Washington be with us today not only because this is our bicentennial inauguration but because Washington remains the Father of our Country . And he would , I think , be gladdened by this day for today is the concrete expression of a stunning fact our continuity , these 200 years , since our government began . We meet on democracy s front porch . A good place to talk as neighbors and as friends . For this is a day when our nation is made whole , when our differences , for a moment , are suspended . And my first act as President is a prayer . I ask you to bow your heads . Heavenly Father , we bow our heads and thank You for Your love . Accept our thanks for the peace that yields this day and the shared faith that makes its continuance likely . Make us strong to do Your work , willing to heed and hear Your will , and write on our hearts these words Use power to help people . For we are given power not to advance our own purposes , nor to make a great show in the world , nor a name . There is but one just use of power , and it is to serve people . Help us remember , Lord . Amen . I come before you and assume the Presidency at a moment rich with promise . We live in a peaceful , prosperous time , but we can make it better . For a new breeze is blowing , and a world refreshed by freedom seems reborn . For in man s heart , if not in fact , the day of the dictator is over . The totalitarian era is passing , its old ideas blown away like leaves from an ancient , lifeless tree . A new breeze is blowing , and a nation refreshed by freedom stands ready to push on . There is new ground to be broken and new action to be taken . There are times when the future seems thick as a fog you sit and wait , hoping the mists will lift and reveal the right path . But this is a time when the future seems a door you can walk right through into a room called tomorrow . Great nations of the world are moving toward democracy through the door to freedom . Men and women of the world move toward free markets through the door to prosperity . The people of the world agitate for free expression and free thought through the door to the moral and intellectual satisfactions that only liberty allows . We know what works Freedom works . We know what is right Freedom is right . We know how to secure a more just and prosperous life for man on Earth through free markets , free speech , free elections , and the exercise of free will unhampered by the state . For the first time in this century , for the first time in perhaps all history , man does not have to invent a system by which to live . We do not have to talk late into the night about which form of government is better . We do not have to wrest justice from the kings . We only have to summon it from within ourselves . We must act on what we know . I take as my guide the hope of a saint In crucial things , unity in important things , diversity in all things , generosity . America today is a proud , free nation , decent and civil , a place we cannot help but love . We know in our hearts , not loudly and proudly but as a simple fact , that this country has meaning beyond what we see , and that our strength is a force for good . But have we changed as a nation even in our time Are we enthralled with material things , less appreciative of the nobility of work and sacrifice My friends , we are not the sum of our possessions . They are not the measure of our lives . In our hearts we know what matters . We cannot hope only to leave our children a bigger car , a bigger bank account . We must hope to give them a sense of what it means to be a loyal friend a loving parent a citizen who leaves his home , his neighborhood , and town better than he found it . And what do we want the men and women who work with us to say when we are no longer there That we were more driven to succeed than anyone around us Or that we stopped to ask if a sick child had gotten better and stayed a moment there to trade a word of friendship No President , no government can teach us to remember what is best in what we are . But if the man you have chosen to lead this government can help make a difference if he can celebrate the quieter , deeper successes that are made not of gold and silk but of better hearts and finer souls if he can do these things , then he must . America is never wholly herself unless she is engaged in high moral principle . We as a people have such a purpose today . It is to make kinder the face of the Nation and gentler the face of the world . My friends , we have work to do . There are the homeless , lost and roaming . There are the children who have nothing , no love and no normalcy . There are those who cannot free themselves of enslavement to whatever addiction drugs , welfare , the demoralization that rules the slums . There is crime to be conquered , the rough crime of the streets . There are young women to be helped who are about to become mothers of children they cannot care for and might not love . They need our care , our guidance , and our education , though we bless them for choosing life . The old solution , the old way , was to think that public money alone could end these problems . But we have learned that that is not so . And in any case , our funds are low . We have a deficit to bring down . We have more will than wallet , but will is what we need . We will make the hard choices , looking at what we have and perhaps allocating it differently , making our decisions based on honest need and prudent safety . And then we will do the wisest thing of all . We will turn to the only resource we have that in times of need always grows the goodness and the courage of the American people . And I am speaking of a new engagement in the lives of others , a new activism , hands on and involved , that gets the job done . We must bring in the generations , harnessing the unused talent of the elderly and the unfocused energy of the young . For not only leadership is passed from generation to generation but so is stewardship . And the generation born after the Second World War has come of age . I have spoken of a Thousand Points of Light , of all the community organizations that are spread like stars throughout the Nation , doing good . We will work hand in hand , encouraging , sometimes leading , sometimes being led , rewarding . We will work on this in the White House , in the Cabinet agencies . I will go to the people and the programs that are the brighter points of light , and I will ask every member of my government to become involved . The old ideas are new again because they are not old , they are timeless duty , sacrifice , commitment , and a patriotism that finds its expression in taking part and pitching in . We need a new engagement , too , between the Executive and the Congress . The challenges before us will be thrashed out with the House and the Senate . And we must bring the Federal budget into balance . And we must ensure that America stands before the world united , strong , at peace , and fiscally sound . But of course things may be difficult . We need to compromise we have had dissension . We need harmony we have had a chorus of discordant voices . For Congress , too , has changed in our time . There has grown a certain divisiveness . We have seen the hard looks and heard the statements in which not each other s ideas are challenged but each other s motives . And our great parties have too often been far apart and untrusting of each other . It is been this way since Vietnam . That war cleaves us still . But , friends , that war began in earnest a quarter of a century ago , and surely the statute of limitation has been reached . This is a fact The final lesson of Vietnam is that no great nation can long afford to be sundered by a memory . A new breeze is blowing , and the old bipartisanship must be made new again . To my friends , and , yes , I do mean friends in the loyal opposition and , yes , I mean loyal I put out my hand . I am putting out my hand to you , Speaker . I am putting out my hand to you , Majority Leader . For this is the thing This is the age of the offered hand . And we cannot turn back clocks , and I do not want to . But when our fathers were young , Speaker , our differences ended at the water s edge . And we do not wish to turn back time , but when our mothers were young , Majority Leader , the Congress and the Executive were capable of working together to produce a budget on which this nation could live . Let us negotiate soon and hard . But in the end , let us produce . The American people await action . They did not send us here to bicker . They ask us to rise above the merely partisan . In crucial things , unity and this , my friends , is crucial . To the world , too , we offer new engagement and a renewed vow We will stay strong to protect the peace . The offered hand is a reluctant fist once made strong , and can be used with great effect . There are today Americans who are held against their will in foreign lands and Americans who are unaccounted for . Assistance can be shown here and will be long remembered . Good will begets good will . Good faith can be a spiral that endlessly moves on . Great nations like great men must keep their word . When America says something , America means it , whether a treaty or an agreement or a vow made on marble steps . We will always try to speak clearly , for candor is a compliment but subtlety , too , is good and has its place . While keeping our alliances and friendships around the world strong , ever strong , we will continue the new closeness with the Soviet Union , consistent both with our security and with progress . One might say that our new relationship in part reflects the triumph of hope and strength over experience . But hope is good , and so is strength and vigilance . Here today are tens of thousands of our citizens who feel the understandable satisfaction of those who have taken part in democracy and seen their hopes fulfilled . But my thoughts have been turning the past few days to those who would be watching at home , to an older fellow who will throw a salute by himself when the flag goes by and the woman who will tell her sons the words of the battle hymns . I do not mean this to be sentimental . I mean that on days like this we remember that we are all part of a continuum , inescapably connected by the ties that bind . Our children are watching in schools throughout our great land . And to them I say , Thank you for watching democracy s big day . For democracy belongs to us all , and freedom is like a beautiful kite that can go higher and higher with the breeze . And to all I say , No matter what your circumstances or where you are , you are part of this day , you are part of the life of our great nation . A President is neither prince nor pope , and I do not seek a window on men s souls . In fact , I yearn for a greater tolerance , and easygoingness about each other s attitudes and way of life . There are few clear areas in which we as a society must rise up united and express our intolerance . The most obvious now is drugs . And when that first cocaine was smuggled in on a ship , it may as well have been a deadly bacteria , so much has it hurt the body , the soul of our country . And there is much to be done and to be said , but take my word for it This scourge will stop And so , there is much to do . And tomorrow the work begins . And I do not mistrust the future . I do not fear what is ahead . For our problems are large , but our heart is larger . Our challenges are great , but our will is greater . And if our flaws are endless , God s love is truly boundless . Some see leadership as high drama and the sound of trumpets calling , and sometimes it is that . But I see history as a book with many pages , and each day we fill a page with acts of hopefulness and meaning . The new breeze blows , a page turns , the story unfolds . And so , today a chapter begins , a small and stately story of unity , diversity , and generosity shared , and written , together . Thank you . God bless you . And God bless the United States of America .<speech_sep>Evan , thank you so much . And welcome to every one of you , out there in this splendid scene of hope , spread across the South Lawn of the White House . I want to salute the Members of the United States Congress , the House and the Senate who are with us today active participants in making this day come true . This is , indeed , an incredible day especially for the thousands of people across the Nation who have given so much of their time , their vision , and their courage to see this act become a reality . You know , I started trying to put together a list of all the people who should be mentioned today . But when the list started looking a little longer than the Senate testimony for the bill , I decided I better give up , or that we had never get out of here before sunset . So , even though so many deserve credit , I will single out but a tiny handful . And I take those who have guided me personally over the years of course , my friends Evan Kemp and Justin Dart , up here on the platform with me and of course I hope you will forgive me for also saying a special word of thanks to two from the White House , but again , this is personal , so I do not want to offend those omitted two from the White House , Boyden Gray and Bill Roper , who labored long and hard . And I want to thank Sandy Parrino , of course , for her leadership . And I again it is very risky with all these Members of Congress here who worked so hard , but I can say on a very personal basis , Bob Dole has inspired me . This is an immensely important day , a day that belongs to all of you . Everywhere I look , I see people who have dedicated themselves to making sure that this day would come to pass my friends from Congress , as I say , who worked so diligently with the best interest of all at heart , Democrats and Republicans members of this administration and I am pleased to see so many top officials and members of my Cabinet here today who brought their caring and expertise to this fight and then , the organizations so many dedicated organizations for people with disabilities , who gave their time and their strength and perhaps most of all , everyone out there and others across the breadth of this nation are 43 million Americans with disabilities . You have made this happen . All of you have made this happen . To all of you , I just want to say your triumph is that your bill will now be law , and that this day belongs to you . On behalf of our nation , thank you very , very much . Three weeks ago we celebrated our nation s Independence Day . Today we are here to rejoice in and celebrate another independence day , one that is long overdue . With today s signing of the landmark Americans for Disabilities Act , every man , woman , and child with a disability can now pass through once closed doors into a bright new era of equality , independence , and freedom . As I look around at all these joyous faces , I remember clearly how many years of dedicated commitment have gone into making this historic new civil rights act a reality . It is been the work of a true coalition , a strong and inspiring coalition of people who have shared both a dream and a passionate determination to make that dream come true . It is been a coalition in the finest spirit a joining of Democrats and Republicans , of the legislative and the executive branches , of Federal and State agencies , of public officials and private citizens , of people with disabilities and without . This historic act is the world s first comprehensive declaration of equality for people with disabilities the first . Its passage has made the United States the international leader on this human rights issue . Already , leaders of several other countries , including Sweden , Japan , the Soviet Union , and all 12 members of the EEhave announced that they hope to enact now similar legislation . Our success with this act proves that we are keeping faith with the spirit of our courageous forefathers who wrote in the Declaration of Independence We hold these truths to be self evident , that all men are created equal , that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable rights . These words have been our guide for more than two centuries as we have labored to form our more perfect union . But tragically , for too many Americans , the blessings of liberty have been limited or even denied . The Civil Rights Act of 64 took a bold step towards righting that wrong . But the stark fact remained that people with disabilities were still victims of segregation and discrimination , and this was intolerable . Today s legislation brings us closer to that day when no Americans will ever again be deprived of their basic guarantee of life , liberty , and the pursuit of happiness . This act is powerful in its simplicity . It will ensure that people with disabilities are given the basic guarantees for which they have worked so long and so hard independence , freedom of choice , control of their lives , the opportunity to blend fully and equally into the rich mosaic of the American mainstream . Legally , it will provide our disabled community with a powerful expansion of protections and then basic civil rights . It will guarantee fair and just access to the fruits of American life which we all must be able to enjoy . And then , specifically , first the ADA ensures that employers covered by the act cannot discriminate against qualified individuals with disabilities . Second , the ADA ensures access to public accommodations such as restaurants , hotels , shopping centers , and offices . And third , the ADA ensures expanded access to transportation services . And fourth , the ADA ensures equivalent telephone services for people with speech or hearing impediments . These provisions mean so much to so many . To one brave girl in particular , they will mean the world . Lisa Carl , a young Washington State woman with cerebral palsy , who I am told is with us today , now will always be admitted to her hometown theater . Lisa , you might not have been welcome at your theater , but I will tell you welcome to the White House . We are glad you are here . The ADA is a dramatic renewal not only for those with disabilities but for all of us , because along with the precious privilege of being an American comes a sacred duty to ensure that every other American s rights are also guaranteed . Together , we must remove the physical barriers we have created and the social barriers that we have accepted . For ours will never be a truly prosperous nation until all within it prosper . For inspiration , we need look no further than our own neighbors . With us in that wonderful crowd out there are people representing 18 of the daily Points of Light that I have named for their extraordinary involvement with the disabled community . We applaud you and your shining example . Thank you for your leadership for all that are here today . Now , let me just tell you a wonderful story , a story about children already working in the spirit of the ADA a story that really touched me . Across the Nation , some 10 , 000 youngsters with disabilities are part of Little League s Challenger Division . Their teams play just like others , but and this is the most remarkable part as they play , at their sides are volunteer buddies from conventional Little League teams . All of these players work together . They team up to wheel around the bases and to field grounders together and , most of all , just to play and become friends . We must let these children be our guides and inspiration . I also want to say a special word to our friends in the business community . You have in your hands the key to the success of this act , for you can unlock a splendid resource of untapped human potential that , when freed , will enrich us all . I know there have been concerns that the ADA may be vague or costly , or may lead endlessly to litigation . But I want to reassure you right now that my administration and the United States Congress have carefully crafted this Act . We have all been determined to ensure that it gives flexibility , particularly in terms of the timetable of implementation , and we have been committed to containing the costs that may be incurred . This act does something important for American business , though and remember this You have called for new sources of workers . Well , many of our fellow citizens with disabilities are unemployed . They want to work , and they can work , and this is a tremendous pool of people . And remember , this is a tremendous pool of people who will bring to jobs diversity , loyalty , proven low turnover rate , and only one request the chance to prove themselves . And when you add together Federal , State , local , and private funds , it costs almost 200 billion annually to support Americans with disabilities in effect , to keep them dependent . Well , when given the opportunity to be independent , they will move proudly into the economic mainstream of American life , and that is what this legislation is all about . Our problems are large , but our unified heart is larger . Our challenges are great , but our will is greater . And in our America , the most generous , optimistic nation on the face of the Earth , we must not and will not rest until every man and woman with a dream has the means to achieve it . And today , America welcomes into the mainstream of life all of our fellow citizens with disabilities . We embrace you for your abilities and for your disabilities , for our similarities and indeed for our differences , for your past courage and your future dreams . Last year , we celebrated a victory of international freedom . Even the strongest person could not scale the Berlin Wall to gain the elusive promise of independence that lay just beyond . And so , together we rejoiced when that barrier fell . And now I sign legislation which takes a sledgehammer to another wall , one which has for too many generations separated Americans with disabilities from the freedom they could glimpse , but not grasp . Once again , we rejoice as this barrier falls for claiming together we will not accept , we will not excuse , we will not tolerate discrimination in America . With , again , great thanks to the Members of the United States Senate , leaders of whom are here today , and those who worked so tirelessly for this legislation on both sides of the aisles . And to those Members of the House of Representatives with us here today , Democrats and Republicans as well , I salute you . And on your behalf , as well as the behalf of this entire country , I now lift my pen to sign this Americans with Disabilities Act and say Let the shameful wall of exclusion finally come tumbling down . God bless you all .<speech_sep>Kuwait is liberated . Iraq s army is defeated . Our military objectives are met . Kuwait is once more in the hands of Kuwaitis , in control of their own destiny . We share in their joy , a joy tempered only by our compassion for their ordeal . Tonight the Kuwaiti flag once again flies above the capital of a free and sovereign nation . And the American flag flies above our Embassy . Seven months ago , America and the world drew a line in the sand . We declared that the aggression against Kuwait would not stand . And tonight , America and the world have kept their word . This is not a time of euphoria , certainly not a time to gloat . But it is a time of pride pride in our troops pride in the friends who stood with us in the crisis pride in our nation and the people whose strength and resolve made victory quick , decisive , and just . And soon we will open wide our arms to welcome back home to America our magnificent fighting forces . No one country can claim this victory as its own . It was not only a victory for Kuwait but a victory for all the coalition partners . This is a victory for the United Nations , for all mankind , for the rule of law , and for what is right . After consulting with Secretary of Defense Cheney , the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff , General Powell , and our coalition partners , I am pleased to announce that at midnight tonight eastern standard time , exactly 100 hours since ground operations commenced and 6 weeks since the start of Desert Storm , all United States and coalition forces will suspend offensive combat operations . It is up to Iraq whether this suspension on the part of the coalition becomes a permanent cease fire . Coalition political and military terms for a formal cease fire include the following requirements Iraq must release immediately all coalition prisoners of war , third country nationals , and the remains of all who have fallen . Iraq must release all Kuwaiti detainees . Iraq also must inform Kuwaiti authorities of the location and nature of all land and sea mines . Iraq must comply fully with all relevant United Nations Security Council resolutions . This includes a rescinding of Iraq s August decision to annex Kuwait and acceptance in principle of Iraq s responsibility to pay compensation for the loss , damage , and injury its aggression has caused . The coalition calls upon the Iraqi Government to designate military commanders to meet within 48 hours with their coalition counterparts at a place in the theater of operations to be specified to arrange for military aspects of the cease fire . Further , I have asked Secretary of State Baker to request that the United Nations Security Council meet to formulate the necessary arrangements for this war to be ended . This suspension of offensive combat operations is contingent upon Iraq s not firing upon any coalition forces and not launching Scud missiles against any other country . If Iraq violates these terms , coalition forces will be free to resume military operations . At every opportunity , I have said to the people of Iraq that our quarrel was not with them but instead with their leadership and , above all , with Saddam Hussein . This remains the case . You , the people of Iraq , are not our enemy . We do not seek your destruction . We have treated your POW s with kindness . Coalition forces fought this war only as a last resort and look forward to the day when Iraq is led by people prepared to live in peace with their neighbors . We must now begin to look beyond victory and war . We must meet the challenge of securing the peace . In the future , as before , we will consult with our coalition partners . We have already done a good deal of thinking and planning for the postwar period , and Secretary Baker has already begun to consult with our coalition partners on the region s challenges . There can be , and will be , no solely American answer to all these challenges . But we can assist and support the countries of the region and be a catalyst for peace . In this spirit , Secretary Baker will go to the region next week to begin a new round of consultations . This war is now behind us . Ahead of us is the difficult task of securing a potentially historic peace . Tonight though , let us be proud of what we have accomplished . Let us give thanks to those who risked their lives . Let us never forget those who gave their lives . May God bless our valiant military forces and their families , and let us all remember them in our prayers . Good night , and may God bless the United States of America .<speech_sep>President . And Speaker , thank you , sir , for those very generous words spoken from the heart about the wonderful performance of our military . Members of Congress , 5 short weeks ago I came to this House to speak to you about the state of the Union . We met then in time of war . Tonight , we meet in a world blessed by the promise of peace . From the moment Operation Desert Storm commenced on January 16th until the time the guns fell silent at midnight 1 week ago , this nation has watched its sons and daughters with pride , watched over them with prayer . As Commander in Chief , I can report to you our armed forces fought with honor and valor . And as President , I can report to the Nation aggression is defeated . The war is over . This is a victory for every country in the coalition , for the United Nations . A victory for unprecedented international cooperation and diplomacy , so well led by our Secretary of State , James Baker . It is a victory for the rule of law and for what is right . Desert Storm s success belongs to the team that so ably leads our Armed Forces our Secretary of Defense and our Chairman of the Joint Chiefs , Dick Cheney and Colin Powell . And while you are standing this military victory also belongs to the one the British call the Man of the Match the tower of calm at the eye of Desert Storm General Norman Schwarzkopf . And recognizing this was a coalition effort , let us not forget Saudi General Khalid , Britain s General de la Billiere , or General Roquejeoffre of France , and all the others whose leadership played such a vital role . And most importantly , most importantly of all , all those who served in the field . I thank the Members of this Congress support here for our troops in battle was overwhelming . And above all , I thank those whose unfailing love and support sustained our courageous men and women I thank the American people . Tonight , I come to this House to speak about the world the world after war . The recent challenge could not have been clearer . Saddam Hussein was the villain Kuwait , the victim . To the aid of this small country came nations from North America and Europe , from Asia and South America , from Africa and the Arab world , all united against aggression . Our uncommon coalition must now work in common purpose to forge a future that should never again be held hostage to the darker side of human nature . Tonight in Iraq , Saddam walks amidst ruin . His war machine is crushed . His ability to threaten mass destruction is itself destroyed . His people have been lied to , denied the truth . And when his defeated legions come home , all Iraqis will see and feel the havoc he has wrought . And this I promise you For all that Saddam has done to his own people , to the Kuwaitis , and to the entire world , Saddam and those around him are accountable . All of us grieve for the victims of war , for the people of Kuwait and the suffering that scars the soul of that proud nation . We grieve for all our fallen soldiers and their families , for all the innocents caught up in this conflict . And , yes , we grieve for the people of Iraq , a people who have never been our enemy . My hope is that one day we will once again welcome them as friends into the community of nations . Our commitment to peace in the Middle East does not end with the liberation of Kuwait . So , tonight let me outline four key challenges to be met . First , we must work together to create shared security arrangements in the region . Our friends and allies in the Middle East recognize that they will bear the bulk of the responsibility for regional security . But we want them to know that just as we stood with them to repel aggression , so now America stands ready to work with them to secure the peace . This does not mean stationing ground forces in the Arabian Peninsula , but it does mean American participation in joint exercises involving both air and ground forces . It means maintaining a capable naval presence in the region , just as we have for over 40 years . Let it be clear Our vital national interests depend on a stable and secure Gulf . Second , we must act to control the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and the missiles used to deliver them . It would be tragic if the nations of the Middle East and Persian Gulf were now , in the wake of war , to embark on a new arms race . Iraq requires special vigilance . Until Iraq convinces the world of its peaceful intentions that its leaders will not use new revenues to rearm and rebuild its menacing war machine Iraq must not have access to the instruments of war . And third , we must work to create new opportunities for peace and stability in the Middle East . On the night I announced Operation Desert Storm , I expressed my hope that out of the horrors of war might come new momentum for peace . We have learned in the modern age geography cannot guarantee security , and security does not come from military power alone . All of us know the depth of bitterness that has made the dispute between Israel and its neighbors so painful and intractable . Yet , in the conflict just concluded , Israel and many of the Arab States have for the first time found themselves confronting the same aggressor . By now , it should be plain to all parties that peacemaking in the Middle East requires compromise . At the same time , peace brings real benefits to everyone . We must do all that we can to close the gap between Israel and the Arab States and between Israelis and Palestinians . The tactics of terror lead absolutely nowhere . There can be no substitute for diplomacy . A comprehensive peace must be grounded in United Nations Security Council Resolutions 242 and 338 and the principle of territory for peace . This principle must be elaborated to provide for Israel s security and recognition and at the same time for legitimate Palestinian political rights . Anything else would fail the twin test of fairness and security . The time has come to put an end to Arab Israeli conflict . The war with Iraq is over . The quest for solutions to the problems in Lebanon , in the Arab Israeli dispute , and in the Gulf must go forward with new vigor and determination . And I guarantee you No one will work harder for a stable peace in the region than we will . Fourth , we must foster economic development for the sake of peace and progress . The Persian Gulf and Middle East form a region rich in natural resources with a wealth of untapped human potential . Resources once squandered on military might must be redirected to more peaceful ends . We are already addressing the immediate economic consequences of Iraq s aggression . Now , the challenge is to reach higher , to foster economic freedom and prosperity for all the people of the region . By meeting these four challenges we can build a framework for peace . I have asked Secretary of State Baker to go to the Middle East to begin the process . He will go to listen , to probe , to offer suggestions to advance the search for peace and stability . I have also asked him to raise the plight of the hostages held in Lebanon . We have not forgotten them , and we will not forget them . To all the challenges that confront this region of the world there is no single solution , no solely American answer . But we can make a difference . America will work tirelessly as a catalyst for positive change . But we cannot lead a new world abroad if , at home , it is politics as usual on American defense and diplomacy . It is time to turn away from the temptation to protect unneeded weapons systems and obsolete bases . It is time to put an end to micromanagement of foreign and security assistance programs micromanagement that humiliates our friends and allies and hamstrings our diplomacy . It is time to rise above the parochial and the pork barrel , to do what is necessary , what is right , and what will enable this nation to play the leadership role required of us . The consequences of the conflict in the Gulf reach far beyond the confines of the Middle East . Twice before in this century , an entire world was convulsed by war . Twice this century , out of the horrors of war hope emerged for enduring peace . Twice before , those hopes proved to be a distant dream , beyond the grasp of man . Until now , the world we have known has been a world divided a world of barbed wire and concrete block , conflict , and cold war . Now , we can see a new world coming into view . A world in which there is the very real prospect of a new world order . In the words of Winston Churchill , a world order in which the principles of justice and fair play protect the weak against the strong . . . . A world where the United Nations , freed from cold war stalemate , is poised to fulfill the historic vision of its founders . A world in which freedom and respect for human rights find a home among all nations . The Gulf war put this new world to its first test . And my fellow Americans , we passed that test . For the sake of our principles , for the sake of the Kuwaiti people , we stood our ground . Because the world would not look the other way , Ambassador al Sabah , tonight Kuwait is free . And we are very happy about that . Tonight , as our troops begin to come home , let us recognize that the hard work of freedom still calls us forward . We have learned the hard lessons of history . The victory over Iraq was not waged as a war to end all wars . Even the new world order cannot guarantee an era of perpetual peace . But enduring peace must be our mission . Our success in the Gulf will shape not only the new world order we seek but our mission here at home . In the war just ended , there were clear cut objectives timetables and , above all , an overriding imperative to achieve results . We must bring that same sense of self discipline , that same sense of urgency , to the way we meet challenges here at home . In my State of the Union Address and in my budget , I defined a comprehensive agenda to prepare for the next American century . Our first priority is to get this economy rolling again . The fear and uncertainty caused by the Gulf crisis were understandable . But now that the war is over , oil prices are down , interest rates are down , and confidence is rightly coming back . Americans can move forward to lend , spend , and invest in this , the strongest economy on Earth . We must also enact the legislation that is key to building a better America . For example , in 1990 , we enacted an historic Clean Air Act . And now we have proposed a national energy strategy . We passed a child care bill that put power in the hands of parents . And today , we are ready to do the same thing with our schools and expand choice in education . We passed a crime bill that made a useful start in fighting crime and drugs . This year , we are sending to Congress our comprehensive crime package to finish the job . We passed the landmark Americans with Disabilities Act . And now we have sent forward our civil rights bill . We also passed the aviation bill . This year , we have sent up our new highway bill . And these are just a few of our pending proposals for reform and renewal . So , tonight I call on the Congress to move forward aggressively on our domestic front . Let us begin with two initiatives we should be able to agree on quickly transportation and crime . And then , let us build on success with those and enact the rest of our agenda . If our forces could win the ground war in 100 hours , then surely the Congress can pass this legislation in 100 days . Let that be a promise we make tonight to the American people . When I spoke in this House about the state of our Union , I asked all of you If we can selflessly confront evil for the sake of good in a land so far away , then surely we can make this land all that it should be . In the time since then , the brave men and women of Desert Storm accomplished more than even they may realize . They set out to confront an enemy abroad , and in the process , they transformed a nation at home . Think of the way they went about their mission with confidence and quiet pride . Think about their sense of duty , about all they taught us about our values , about ourselves . We hear so often about our young people in turmoil how our children fall short , how our schools fail us , how American products and American workers are second class . Well , do not you believe it . The America we saw in Desert Storm was first class talent . And they did it using America s state of the art technology . We saw the excellence embodied in the Patriot missile and the patriots who made it work . And we saw soldiers who know about honor and bravery and duty and country and the world shaking power of these simple words . There is something noble and majestic about the pride , about the patriotism that we feel tonight . So , to everyone here and everyone watching at home , think about the men and women of Desert Storm . Let us honor them with our gratitude . Let us comfort the families of the fallen and remember each precious life lost . Let us learn from them as well . Let us honor those who have served us by serving others . Let us honor them as individuals men and women of every race , all creeds and colors by setting the face of this nation against discrimination , bigotry , and hate . Eliminate them . I am sure that many of you saw on the television the unforgettable scene of four terrified Iraqi soldiers surrendering . They emerged from their bunker broken , tears streaming from their eyes , fearing the worst . And then there was an American soldier . Remember what he said He said It is okay . You are all right now . You are all right now . That scene says a lot about America , a lot about who we are . Americans are a caring people . We are a good people , a generous people . Let us always be caring and good and generous in all we do . Soon , very soon , our troops will begin the march we have all been waiting for their march home . And I have directed Secretary Cheney to begin the immediate return of American combat units from the Gulf . Less than 2 hours from now , the first planeload of American soldiers will lift off from Saudi Arabia , headed for the S . That plane will carry the men and women of the 24th Mechanized Infantry Division bound for Fort Stewart , Georgia . This is just the beginning of a steady flow of American troops coming home . Let their return remind us that all those who have gone before are linked with us in the long line of freedom s march . Americans have always tried to serve , to sacrifice nobly for what we believe to be right . Tonight , I ask every community in this country to make this coming Fourth of July a day of special celebration for our returning troops . They may have missed Thanksgiving and Christmas , but I can tell you this For them and for their families , we can make this a holiday they will never forget . In a very real sense , this victory belongs to them to the privates and the pilots , to the sergeants and the supply officers , to the men and women in the machines and the men and women who made them work . It belongs to the regulars , to the reserves , to the National Guard . This victory belongs to the finest fighting force this nation has ever known in its history . We went halfway around the world to do what is moral and just and right . We fought hard and , with others , we won the war . We lifted the yoke of aggression and tyranny from a small country that many Americans had never even heard of , and we ask nothing in return . We are coming home now proud , confident , heads high . There is much that we must do , at home and abroad . And we will do it . We are Americans . May God bless this great nation , the United States of America . Thank you all very , very much .<speech_sep>Just 2 hours ago , allied air forces began an attack on military targets in Iraq and Kuwait . These attacks continue as I speak . Ground forces are not engaged . This conflict started August 2d when the dictator of Iraq invaded a small and helpless neighbor . Kuwait a member of the Arab League and a member of the United Nations was crushed its people , brutalized . Five months ago , Saddam Hussein started this cruel war against Kuwait . Tonight , the battle has been joined . This military action , taken in accord with United Nations resolutions and with the consent of the United States Congress , follows months of constant and virtually endless diplomatic activity on the part of the United Nations , the United States , and many , many other countries . Arab leaders sought what became known as an Arab solution , only to conclude that Saddam Hussein was unwilling to leave Kuwait . Others traveled to Baghdad in a variety of efforts to restore peace and justice . Our Secretary of State , James Baker , held an historic meeting in Geneva , only to be totally rebuffed . This past weekend , in a last ditch effort , the Secretary General of the United Nations went to the Middle East with peace in his heart his second such mission . And he came back from Baghdad with no progress at all in getting Saddam Hussein to withdraw from Kuwait . Now the 28 countries with forces in the Gulf area have exhausted all reasonable efforts to reach a peaceful resolution have no choice but to drive Saddam from Kuwait by force . We will not fail . As I report to you , air attacks are underway against military targets in Iraq . We are determined to knock out Saddam Hussein s nuclear bomb potential . We will also destroy his chemical weapons facilities . Much of Saddam s artillery and tanks will be destroyed . Our operations are designed to best protect the lives of all the coalition forces by targeting Saddam s vast military arsenal . Initial reports from General Schwarzkopf are that our operations are proceeding according to plan . Our objectives are clear Saddam Hussein s forces will leave Kuwait . The legitimate government of Kuwait will be restored to its rightful place , and Kuwait will once again be free . Iraq will eventually comply with all relevant United Nations resolutions , and then , when peace is restored , it is our hope that Iraq will live as a peaceful and cooperative member of the family of nations , thus enhancing the security and stability of the Gulf . Some may ask Why act now Why not wait The answer is clear The world could wait no longer . Sanctions , though having some effect , showed no signs of accomplishing their objective . Sanctions were tried for well over 5 months , and we and our allies concluded that sanctions alone would not force Saddam from Kuwait . While the world waited , Saddam Hussein systematically raped , pillaged , and plundered a tiny nation , no threat to his own . He subjected the people of Kuwait to unspeakable atrocities and among those maimed and murdered , innocent children . While the world waited , Saddam sought to add to the chemical weapons arsenal he now possesses , an infinitely more dangerous weapon of mass destruction a nuclear weapon . And while the world waited , while the world talked peace and withdrawal , Saddam Hussein dug in and moved massive forces into Kuwait . While the world waited , while Saddam stalled , more damage was being done to the fragile economies of the Third World , emerging democracies of Eastern Europe , to the entire world , including to our own economy . The United States , together with the United Nations , exhausted every means at our disposal to bring this crisis to a peaceful end . However , Saddam clearly felt that by stalling and threatening and defying the United Nations , he could weaken the forces arrayed against him . While the world waited , Saddam Hussein met every overture of peace with open contempt . While the world prayed for peace , Saddam prepared for war . I had hoped that when the United States Congress , in historic debate , took its resolute action , Saddam would realize he could not prevail and would move out of Kuwait in accord with the United Nation resolutions . He did not do that . Instead , he remained intransigent , certain that time was on his side . Saddam was warned over and over again to comply with the will of the United Nations Leave Kuwait , or be driven out . Saddam has arrogantly rejected all warnings . Instead , he tried to make this a dispute between Iraq and the United States of America . Well , he failed . Tonight , 28 nations countries from 5 continents , Europe and Asia , Africa , and the Arab League have forces in the Gulf area standing shoulder to shoulder against Saddam Hussein . These countries had hoped the use of force could be avoided . Regrettably , we now believe that only force will make him leave . Prior to ordering our forces into battle , I instructed our military commanders to take every necessary step to prevail as quickly as possible , and with the greatest degree of protection possible for American and allied service men and women . I have told the American people before that this will not be another Vietnam , and I repeat this here tonight . Our troops will have the best possible support in the entire world , and they will not be asked to fight with one hand tied behind their back . I am hopeful that this fighting will not go on for long and that casualties will be held to an absolute minimum . This is an historic moment . We have in this past year made great progress in ending the long era of conflict and cold war . We have before us the opportunity to forge for ourselves and for future generations a new world order a world where the rule of law , not the law of the jungle , governs the conduct of nations . When we are successful and we will be we have a real chance at this new world order , an order in which a credible United Nations can use its peacekeeping role to fulfill the promise and vision of the N . s founders . We have no argument with the people of Iraq . Indeed , for the innocents caught in this conflict , I pray for their safety . Our goal is not the conquest of Iraq . It is the liberation of Kuwait . It is my hope that somehow the Iraqi people can , even now , convince their dictator that he must lay down his arms , leave Kuwait , and let Iraq itself rejoin the family of peace loving nations . Thomas Paine wrote many years ago These are the times that try men s souls . Those well known words are so very true today . But even as planes of the multinational forces attack Iraq , I prefer to think of peace , not war . I am convinced not only that we will prevail but that out of the horror of combat will come the recognition that no nation can stand against a world united , no nation will be permitted to brutally assault its neighbor . No President can easily commit our sons and daughters to war . They are the Nation s finest . Ours is an all volunteer force , magnificently trained , highly motivated . The troops know why they are there . And listen to what they say , for they have said it better than any President or Prime Minister ever could . Listen to Hollywood Huddleston , Marine lance corporal . He says , Let us free these people , so we can go home and be free again . And he is right . The terrible crimes and tortures committed by Saddam s henchmen against the innocent people of Kuwait are an affront to mankind and a challenge to the freedom of all . Listen to one of our great officers out there , Marine Lieutenant General Walter Boomer . He said There are things worth fighting for . A world in which brutality and lawlessness are allowed to go unchecked is not the kind of world we are going to want to live in . Listen to Master Sergeant Kendall of the 82d Airborne We are here for more than just the price of a gallon of gas . What we are doing is going to chart the future of the world for the next 100 years . It is better to deal with this guy now than 5 years from now . And finally , we should all sit up and listen to Jackie Jones , an Army lieutenant , when she says , If we let him get away with this , who knows what is going to be next I have called upon Hollywood and Walter and and Jackie and all their courageous comrades in arms to do what must be done . Tonight , America and the world are deeply grateful to them and to their families . And let me say to everyone listening or watching tonight When the troops we have sent in finish their work , I am determined to bring them home as soon as possible . Tonight , as our forces fight , they and their families are in our prayers . May God bless each and every one of them , and the coalition forces at our side in the Gulf , and may He continue to bless our nation , the United States of America .<speech_sep>