THE VOTE in the Senate today at best adds further delay to farm relief and may gravely jeopardize the enactment of legislation . In rejecting the report of the Senate and House conferees , which report was agreed to by members of both parties , the Senate has in effect rejected a bill which provides for the creation of the most important agency ever set up in the Government to assist an industry the proposed Federal Farm Board , endowed with extraordinary authority to reorganize the marketing system in the interest of the farmer to stabilize his industry and to carry out these arrangements in conjunction with farm cooperatives , with a capital of 500 million as an earnest of the seriousness of the work . It is a proposal for steady upbuilding of agriculture onto firm foundations of equality with other industry and would remove the agricultural problem from politics and place it in the realm of business . The conferees bill carried out the plan advanced in the campaign in every particular . Every other plan of agricultural relief was rejected in that campaign and this plan was one of the most important issues in the principal agricultural States and was given as a mandate by an impressive majority in these States . Subsidies were condemned in the course of the campaign and the so called debenture plan that is the giving of subsidies on exports was not raised by either party , nor by its proponents . No serious attempt has been made to meet the many practical objections I and leaders in Congress have advanced against this proposal . It p . 184 was not accepted by the House of Representatives and has been overwhelmingly condemned by the press and is opposed by many leading farm organizations . For no matter what the theory of the export subsidy may be , in the practical world we live in , it will not bring equality but will bring further disparity to agriculture . It will bring immediate profits to some speculators and disaster to the farmer . I earnestly hope that the Congress will enact the conferees report and allow us to enter upon the building of a sound agricultural system rather than to longer deprive the farmer of the relief which he sorely needs .<speech_sep>My fellow citizens , my friends in Indianapolis , and may I also include Senator Watson , for I wish to add that he must be your next Senator we require his services in Washington Now , my fellow citizens , my major purpose tonight is to discuss those long view policies by which we not only cement recovery but also by which we secure over the years the enlarged comfort and the steady progress of the American people . I propose to contrast them with the ideas which have been developed by the Democratic House of Representatives , the Democratic platform , and the Democratic candidate in the course of this campaign . When I refer to the views of these groups I wish to say at once that I do not refer to all members of the Democratic Party . Many of them , as in 1896 and in 1928 , have signified their intention to support us against these notions . I also wish on all occasions to pay tribute to those Democratic Members of the Congress who supported the unprecedented measures which we presented during the course of the last winter and through which we saved this country from destruction and chaos . I would like also to reiterate the statement which I recently made at Detroit , that the most important issue before the American people right now is to overcome this crisis , that we may secure a restoration of normal jobs to our unemployed , recovery of our agricultural prices and of our business , and that we may extend generous help in the meantime to tide our people over until these fundamental restorations are established . I pointed out on that occasion that the battle has now changed from a successful defense of our country from disaster and chaos to forward marching attack on a hundred fronts through a score of instrumentalities and weapons toward recovery . Since that time I have had further positive evidence showing that the measures and policies that we have set in motion are driving the forces of depression into further retreat with constantly increasing rapidity . If there shall be no change in the strategy of this battle , if there shall be no delay and hesitation , we shall have the restoration of men and women to their normal jobs and we shall have that lift to agriculture from its anxieties and its losses . But before I begin the major discussion of the evening , I wish to take a moment of your time to revert to those methods and policies for protection and recovery from this depression in the light of certain recent misstatements of the Democratic candidate in respect to them . I presume the Governor of New York will announce that I am acting upon the defensive if I shall expose the self interested inexactitude which he has broadcasted to the American people . I am equally prepared to defend , attack , or expound . I shall not be deterred from my purpose to lay before the people of the United States the truth as to the issues which they confront , and I shall do it with a sense of responsibility of one who has carried out and must carry into effect these issues . I wish to call your attention to the fact that the Governor of New York in a speech on October 25 stated This crash came in October 1929 . The President had at his disposal all of the instrumentalities of the Government . From that day until December 31 , 1931 , he did absolutely nothing to remedy the situation . Not only did he do nothing , but he took the position that Congress could do nothing . That is the end of the quotation , and it is a charge which extends over the first 2 years and 2 months of this depression . It seems almost incredible that a man , a candidate for the Presidency of the United States , would broadcast such a violation of the truth . The front pages of every newspaper in the United States for the whole of those 2 years proclaimed the untruth of that statement . And I need remind you but of a few acts of the administration to demonstrate what I say . The Governor dismisses the agreements brought about between the leaders of industry and labor under my assistance less than 1 month after the crash by which wages of literally millions of men and women were , for the first time in 15 depressions of a century , held without reduction until after profits had ceased and the cost of living had decreased . He ignores the fact that today real wages in the United States are higher than at any other depression period , higher in purchasing power than in any other country in the world . And above all , he dismisses the healing effect of that great agreement by which this country has been kept free from industrial strife and class conflicts . He would suppress from the American people the knowledge of the undertaking brought about within 2 months after the crash amongst the industries of the United States to divide the existing work in such fashion as to give millions of families some measure of income instead of discharging a large portion of them into destitution , as had always been the case in previous depressions and was the case abroad . He ignores the fact that these agreements have held until this day for the staggering unemployment . If the Governor will look up his own files of his official correspondence , he will find that within a month after the crash I appealed to him , amongst the other Governors , for cooperation in creating employment and stabilization of wages , in which I set out to him the gravity of the national situation and urged that he should present in turn the great need to the counties and cities of his State . If he says nothing was done , it was a violation of the promise which he wrote to me on that occasion . Nevertheless , the other States and the municipalities , including the great State of Indiana , entered into the general definite organization between the States to increase construction work in relief of unemployment during the winters not only of 1930 but of 1931 . Not only were Federal , State , and municipal agencies mobilized , but private agencies were mobilized to that end . And by this , the Governor seems to have forgotten , I succeeded in reversing the whole usual process of decreasing construction work of this character in time of depression . This type of work was increased during the first year of the depression by over 800 million above normal , thus giving a living to thousands of families who otherwise would have been destitute . The Governor says nothing had been done . The Governor would also suppress the fact of the mobilization of the American people under my direction during the winters of 1930 and 31 of private charity and of public support to relief of distress in every town , village , and hamlet in the United States through which we carried them over these winters without serious suffering or loss , as is proved by the public health statistics of today . The Governor cannot be ignorant of the recommendations which I made to the Congress within a month after the crash , and again in the session a year later , for the great increase of Federal public works in aid of employment , and he cannot be ignorant of the appropriations made at my recommendation for the care of farmers stricken by drought or the public funds raised under my leadership for these purposes . The Governor ignores the most patent fact in the history of this depression that , under the wise policies pursued by this administration , recovery of the United States from the first phase of the depression that is , the collapse from our own speculation and boom began about a year after the crash and continued definitely and positively until April 1931 , when the general world crash took place which was not of our doing . The Governor is probably ignorant of the international measures taken to limit the extension of this prairie fire under American leadership . He ignores the German moratorium and the standstill agreements in June 1931 , which not only saved Germany from complete collapse but prevented much of the extended distress from reaching the United States . He neglects the creation , after the collapse of England , of the National Credit Corporation with a capital of 500 million in cooperation amongst American banks , which saved over 700 institutions involving the deposits of upwards of 10 millions of our people , and that was doing something . The Governor entirely misrepresents the fact that the plan to meet this crisis which swept upon us from Europe was proposed by me to the political leaders of the United States at a White House conference on October 6 , 1931 . He ignores the fact that that plan was laid before the Congress by a message on December 8 , and that it was not the creation of the Democratic leaders at the end of December , as he would imply . Although the leaders of the Democratic Party had promised 14 months before they would produce a plan , they produced no plan until they began their destructive program some months later . And not one of those acts has been disavowed by the Governor . He ignores the fact that the unprecedented measures proposed and carried through by the administration with the help of some of the Democratic colleagues in the Congress would have put us on the road to recovery 8 months ago instead of having had to await the adjournment of the Democratic House of Representatives only 4 months ago . And again the Governor , despite every proof , keeps reiterating the implication that the measures taken by this administration have had no fruitful result to the common man . He has been told , at least by some of the men who advise him in this campaign , that the gigantic crisis with which the United States was faced was escaped by the narrowest margins and that it was due to unprecedented measures adopted by this administration . If some of these men will tell him the whole truth , they will tell him that they personally sought to buy and withdraw large sums of gold because of their belief that we could not maintain the gold reserves of the United States . Would it not be well that every American citizen should take pride in the fact that America carried this Nation through this crisis safely and soundly and did it as a matter of national and united action Why cannot the Governor of New York be frank enough to recognize the successful care of the distressed in the United States that a vast amount of employment has been provided by cooperative action amongst our citizens that the savings of more than 95 percent of the depositors in our banks have been held secure that the 20 million borrowers who otherwise would have been bankrupt by destructive pressures from forced selling of their assets in order to pay their debts have been protected that the 70 million life insurance policies which represent the greatest act of self denial of a people in provision for the future safety of their loved ones have been sustained in their vitality and foreclosure of hundreds of thousands of mortgages upon homes and farms has been prevented Those are national accomplishments for which the whole American people are proud . The Governor knows that the integrity of our currency has been sustained , that the credit of the Federal Government has been maintained , that credit and employment are being expanded day by day . The living proof of these measures , which were conceived from the human heart as well as the human mind , can be found in the men and women in every city , every town , every township , and every block in this broad land , for they have been saved their jobs and their homes and secured from suffering and that by the action of the American people as a whole . I have stated that my major purpose this evening is to speak upon some of the continuing policies of this administration and the Republican Party in contrast with the policies of our opponents . Many of these continuing policies are dealt with in our platform . I dealt with some of them in my acceptance speech . Some have developed in the course of this campaign . Having had the responsibility of this office for 30 years , my views upon most public questions are already set out in many cases in the public record and by definite public action . I do not have to engage in promises in respect to them . I may point to performance . The opposition has shown its true purposes by its legislation in the last session of the Democratic House of Representatives , through their platform , and through the statements or evasions of their candidate . Of these subjects I may first refer to the tariff . In a recent speech , in discussing the agricultural tariffs , I pointed out the specific disaster to our farms from the Democratic proposal to reduce the protective tariff . I pointed out that the Democratic Party had , in 1913 , not been content with merely lowering the tariff , but had put a large part of the farm products on the free list . I pointed out that the Republican Party had passed an emergency farm tariff bill in 1921 , as soon as they had a majority in the Congress , and that a Democratic President had vetoed it . I pointed out that the Democratic minority in Congress , in 1921 , had voted against the revival of the emergency farm tariff , and that the Republican majority had passed it , and a Republican President had signed it . I pointed out that the Democratic minority had voted against an increase in agricultural tariffs in the Republican tariff act of 1922 . I pointed out that most of the Democratic Members of Congress voted against the bill carrying the increases in tariffs on agricultural products in the special session of Congress which I called in 1929 for that purpose on which occasion we passed the Hawley Smoot bill . In the light of this historic attitude it is but natural that our opponents express their bitter opposition to the Republican tariff . They have habitually voted against these tariffs . And now they propose in their platform a competitive tariff for revenue , and they denounce the Smoot Haw ley bill which is mainly devoted to the increase of farm tariffs . The Democratic candidate from the day of his nomination iterated and reiterated that he proposed to reduce the tariff . He stated that it was an unwarranted increase in the tariff . During the first 7 weeks of this campaign he not only adopted the historic position of his party , but he constantly repeats their platform , and has reinforced it by repeated statements , as for instance I support the competitive tariff for revenue . The tariff law of 1932 was a drastic revision of the tariff upward in spite of the fact that the existing tariff levels were already high enough to protect American industries . We sit on the high wall of the Hawley Smoot tariff . I condemn the Hawley Smoot tariff . A wicked and exorbitant tariff . Sealed by the highest tariff in the history of the world . Our policy declares for lowered tariffs . A ghastly jest of the tariff . Roosevelt and his party knew that the major increases in the Hawley Smoot act were farm tariffs when that platform was drawn , and he knew it was in effect when he made the statements that I have quoted . The evidence is complete that he and they intend to reduce the farm tariffs . During the past 3 weeks I have reiterated this plain and evident purpose of their party and their candidate . Unquestionably my exposition has given their candidate great anxiety , because on the 25th of this month some 6 or 7 days ago , just 21 days after my first statement on the subject he announced another new deal . I call this a new shuffle . He now announces within 2 weeks of the election that he does not propose to reduce tariffs on farm products . This is the most startling shift in position by a Presidential candidate in the midst of a political campaign in all recent political history . What do you think Grover Cleveland or Samuel Tilden or Woodrow Wilson would have said to such a shift as that Does the candidate realize that he has overnight thrown overboard the great historic position of his party That he has rewritten the Democratic platform Does he realize that he must withdraw large parts of the speeches in which he has denounced this Hawley Smoot bill as the origin of all the world s calamity I have the privilege of informing him that 66 percent of all the duties collected on all of the imports into the United States are directly on imports of agricultural origin and the reduction of which would affect American farmers . Are we to take it that all the diatribes we have heard from the Democratic orators throughout this campaign are in respect to only one third of the American tariffs For just 7 days ago the Democratic candidate said , The Hawley Smoot tariff law carried the decline in world trade , and what amounted to a world calamity became a general international calamity . Since that time he must have concluded that the farm tariffs have done the world no harm . You will further remember that under the tariff act two thirds of our imports are free of duty , and now he excludes two thirds of the remaining one third that are dutiable . Does the Democratic Party now pretend that this terrible world calamity which we have encountered was caused by the tariffs on one ninth of the imports into the United States And further , do they know and they do know that of this one ninth of the imports of nonagricultural commodities less than one half of them were increased by the Hawley Smoot tariff bill Now to continue our mathematical explorations a little further , I am wondering if they pretend that this calamity was caused by increase of tariffs on one eighteenth of the imports of the United States And I may pursue this mathematical course still further . Do they recognize that the whole of our imports , that is , the imports of the United States , constitute less than 12 percent of the imports of the world all taken together , and thus , in this revised view , the increased duties on one eighteenth of one twelfth or less than one half of 1 percent of the world s import trade brought about this gigantic calamity by which 30 nations failed or gone to revolution . Should not the Democratic candidate now at last search in the aftermath of the World War for the origins of our difficulties and stop this nonsense I wish to extend this discussion a little further . It is desirable that the Governor may explain himself some further on other tariff questions . Does he include the reduction of the tariff on cotton textiles , so largely manufactured in the South I have included but a part of the textile duties in the agricultural tariffs the tariffs on agricultural products inasmuch as only a part of the raw cotton is dutiable . And I wonder whether he proposes to close up the Southern cotton mills In view of this new light of maintaining tariffs , I wonder if he has considered the grievous position that the oil industry might be in in the States of California , Oklahoma , Texas , and Kansas , if they are left out Has he considered the copper industry in the States of Arizona , Montana , Michigan , and Utah Has he considered the tariffs on metal and other products which affect the welfare of the whole of the people of New England , New York , Pennsylvania , California , New Jersey , Ohio , Indiana , Illinois , West Virginia , and other States Has he considered the tariff on pottery and chemicals and its effect upon New Jersey , Ohio , Indiana , Illinois , New York , Pennsylvania , West Virginia , California , and a lot of other States And will he consider the tariffs on lumber and their effect on Oregon , Washington , California , and Wisconsin If we are going to retreat from a reduction of the tariff those people ought to have some word of comfort also . Perhaps if he would give the same consideration as to the effect of reducing the tariff for these other people , he will come to the same conclusion as that which he has been forced to come by this debate in respect to agriculture . Now , if political exigencies have forced this temporary conversion on agricultural products , how far is the Governor authorized to change at will the traditional policies and the platform of the Democratic Party How far can he guarantee to bring with him the Democratic Members of the House and the Senate who voted against the bills carrying the increases in agricultural tariffs , and how about the men who wrote that plank in the Democratic platform Now do you who are farmers believe in eleventh hour conversion Do you consider that your livelihood is safe in the hands of the traditional and the present enemy of the protective tariff Perhaps the Governor and the whole Democratic Party will now withdraw and apologize for the defamation to which I have been subjected for the past 2 years because I called a special session of the Congress and secured an increase in agricultural tariffs . Now I am , myself , taking heart over this debate . If it could be continued long enough , I believe we could drive him from every solitary position he has taken in this campaign . They are equally untenable . But even on the tariff , he perhaps remembers the dreadful experience of the chameleon on the Scotch plaid . And I can illustrate this to you . As to the balance of the protective tariffs , unless this late conversion extends further than agriculture , he proposes to reduce them in the face of the fact that during the last 12 months there has been a violent change in the economy of the entire world through the depreciation of currencies in some 30 European nations and thus a lowering of their standards of living and the creation of still greater differences between the costs of production in the United States and abroad . Now , the Republican Party is squarely for the protective tariff . I refuse to put the American workers and farmers into further unemployment and misery by any such action as the unrepented principles of their Members of the Democratic Congress and their platform . The Governor s new shuffle , however , requires that he give some further assurances to our farmers in order to make it consistent . The Democratic House of Representatives and their allies in the Senate passed a bill directing me to call an international conference for the purpose of reducing tariffs . The Governor has supported this in his program . That means that we should surrender to foreigners the determination of a policy which we have zealously held under American control for nearly 150 years , ever since the first protective tariff was enacted under George Washington s administration . This would , in that manner , place the fate of American workers and American farmers in the hands of foreign nations , and I vetoed the bill . But the point that I wish to make now is that the Governor should give to the farmers that if he calls this conference which he has assured he will do , that he will exempt agricultural tariffs from the discussion therein . Further than this the Democratic Party and their candidate propose to enter upon reciprocal tariffs . That idea is not entirely new in our history , although it is a violation of what has now become a firmly fixed principle of uniform and equal treatment of all nations without preferences , concessions , or discriminations . It is just such concessions and discriminations that are producing today a large part of the frictions over tariffs in Europe . I suppose our Democratic friends blame these European tariff wars on the Hawley Smoot bill . Though reciprocal tariffs are a violation of well established American principles , this Nation has fallen from grace at times and attempted to do this very thing . At one time 22 such treaties were negotiated for this purpose . Congress refused to confirm 16 of them 2 of the remaining failed of confirmation by other governments and 4 others were so immaterial as to be forgotten . On another occasion Congress conferred on the Executive a limited authority to make treaties of this character . Twenty two of them were agreed upon , all of which were repealed by tariff acts . Now this demonstrates just one thing that in an intelligent democracy you cannot surrender the welfare of one industry or one locality in order to gain something for another . But there is an overriding objection to a reciprocal tariff upon which the Governor s new shuffle requires that he give these further assurances to the farmers . The vast majority of the wishes of foreign countries about our tariffs is to get us to reduce our farm tariffs so that they may enter our agricultural market . The only concessions that we could grant through reciprocal tariffs of any great importance would be at the cost of our farmers . Since the Governor has assured the Nation of a policy of reciprocal tariffs , he should give an assurance to the farmers that the farm tariffs will not be included and that he will abandon the whole idea of reciprocal tariffs in relation to agriculture . This , of course , takes away the whole foundation of the trading value in reciprocal tariffs . And we may as well abandon the further discussion of that in this campaign . In all this discussion about reducing tariffs it should be remembered that if any one of the rates or schedules in our tariff is too high , it has been open to our opponents during the whole of the last session of the House of Representatives to pass a simple resolution and thereby secure its review by the Tariff Commission . Did they do that They did not . The establishment of the Tariff Commission with this authority destroyed one of the campaign methods of the Democratic Party , and that was to conduct their campaigns by exhibiting kettles and pans to the housewives of the Nation and explaining what unjust cost was imposed upon them by the tariff . Now that maneuver is no longer effective , with the bipartisan Tariff Commission open to give remedy to the housewives of the United States . The Democrats propose , in fact , passed a bill in the last session in the lower House , to destroy the authority of the bipartisan Tariff Commission by which it may change the tariff so as to correct inequities or to alter the schedules to meet the changing tides of an economic world . Thus , they propose to return to the old logrolling , the old orgies of greed , viciousness , and stagnation of business during general congressional action in review of the tariff . The increased authority to the bipartisan Tariff Commission to make changes in the tariff with the approval of the President was brought about at my insistence , and with the sterling courage of your Senator , 2 years ago . That was the greatest reform in tariff legislation in half a century . And it originated from Theodore Roosevelt . No better example of the vital importance of the flexible tariff exists than today , when we are in the crisis of men and women being thrown out of employment due to depreciated currencies abroad and of low priced farm products moving over our borders . The commission is today reexamining the new differences in the cost of production at home and abroad that action may be taken to restore men and women to their jobs . Sound public policy maintains the necessity of this Commission and its authorities . The Democratic policy is to destroy it , but perhaps the Governor of New York will offer us a new deal in this matter , also . Now , related to the tariff , the Democratic candidate proposes to place the payment of the war debts owed to us by foreign countries squarely on the shoulders of the American workman and the American farmer by lowering the tariffs for this special purpose . He would let down the bars to the American market for foreign commodities to the extent necessary that foreign nations may collect from the profits of their manufactures the money with which to pay these debts . Will he now exclude the 66 percent of dutiable imports , which are farm products , from this proposal My own view in opposition to cancellation of the war debts is a matter of public record through many public statements and messages to Congress . I have proposed that if opportunity offers we should use the foreign debts , payment by payment , to expand foreign markets for our labor and our own farmers . That is not cancellation and that is the reverse of the announced policy of the Democratic candidate . At no point in this campaign have our opponents stated clearly and definitely their position on immigration . I have looked for it . I may have overlooked it . If I have I apologize . I have stated that I favor rigidly restricted immigration . I endeavored to secure from the Congress the return of the quota bases from the national origins to the base previously given . I have recommended that a more humane provision should be made for bringing in the near relatives of our citizens . I shall persist in these matters . I have limited immigration by administrative order during the depression in order to relieve us of unemployment or , alternatively , to save the jobs of our people who are now at work . Two years prior to that order going into effect slightly under half a million immigrants came into the United States . Since it went into effect , more have gone out of the United States than have come in . The distressed people with lowered standards of living that would have come in would have been a far greater addition to our unemployed than even this amount . The Democratic candidate , incidentally , overlooked that little item in stating that the Republican administration had done nothing in the first 2 years and 2 months of this depression . I have repeatedly recommended to the Congress a revision of our railway transportation laws in order that we might create greater stability and greater assurance in this vital service of transportation . The regulation should be extended to other forms of carriers , both to prevent the cutthroat destruction going on in their own business amongst themselves and to prevent their destruction of the other great major arm of our transportation . I have set this matter out in numerous messages to the Congress . I have supported the recommendations of the Interstate Commerce Commission , which are specific and not generalities . Our opponents have adopted my program in this matter during this campaign except for certain glittering generalizations , as to which they do not inform us how they are to be accomplished and upon which I enter a reservation . I have repeatedly recommended the Federal regulation of interstate power . I stated as early as 7 years ago that glass pockets are the safety of the industry as well as of the public . I secured the creation of an independent Power Commission by Congress 2 years ago under the leadership of your Senator . I have opposed and I will continue to oppose , the Federal Government going into the power business and the further extension of Federal bureaucracy . The intention of many of the men at least that are campaigning for the Democratic Party and under the auspices of and with money provided by the Democratic National Committee , are certainly to put the Government into the power business , and it would seem that they must have confidence that their notions will be put over by the Democratic candidate . The Democratic candidate assures us that he will preserve the great water powers of the country for the people . That is already provided by the law passed 20 years ago passed in 1920 and it , therefore , presents no difficulty to vigorous campaign promises . In my acceptance speech I stated that this depression had exposed many weaknesses in our economic system . It has shown much wrongdoing . There has been exploitation and abuse of financial power . These weaknesses must be corrected , and that wrongdoing must be punished . We will continue to reform such abuses and correct such wrongdoing as falls within the powers of the Federal Government . Furthermore , the American people must have protection from insecure banking through a stronger banking system . They must have relief from conditions which permit the credit machinery of the country being made available without adequate check for wholesale speculation in securities , with its ruinous consequences to millions of our citizens and to our national economy . This the Federal Reserve System by its present constitution has proven incapable of bringing about . I recommended to the Congress the sane reform of our banking laws . The Democratic House of Representatives did not see fit to pass that legislation in the last session , but we shall persist until it has been accomplished . About a year ago , I recommended to the Congress an emergency relief to our depositors in closed banks that through temporary use of the credit of the Federal Government a substantial portion of their assets should be forthwith distributed in order to relieve distress and to enable depositors to reestablish their business . The Democratic Congress refused to pass such legislation in the last session , except for a minor provision of authority to the Reconstruction Corporation which does not reach to the heart of the question . The Democratic candidate and his corps of orators have not yet disclosed their position on this subject . It concerns the welfare of 4 or 5 million Americans . We have listened to much prattle from the opposition about reducing Government expenses . Having a record of earnest performance , I naturally exposed those insincerities in the last address which I made at Detroit . My only comment on this occasion is that if I receive a mandate from the American people in this election , I shall be able not only to force upon this Democratic House real economies , but I shall be able to stop further raids by the Democratic Party on the Treasury of the United States . Now , through some misinformation presented to him , the Democratic candidate has annexed , as if it were a new discovery , the recommendations which I made in 1922 and have been continuously advocating ever since for the reorganization of the whole Federal administrative structure for purposes of economy by consolidation of bureaus and the elimination of useless boards and commissions . The candidate in a speech 3 days ago was thus led to misrepresent the present situation in suggesting that having these powers , had not executed them . He did not realize that the Congress having no longer been able to oppose this reform , did pass a measure during the last session granting such an authority to the Executive to bring it about . They , however , denied my request for immediate action , except on minor questions , and made that authority dependent upon the approval of the Congress , which cannot be given before next March under the terms of the law . If the Democratic candidate will read the law and inform himself fully on the subject I have no doubt he will withdraw that statement . I recently gave an address at Des Moines devoted largely to specific measures now in action and to be put in action for agriculture . I also , likewise at Cleveland , gave an extended exposition of the measures and policies which we have in action and propose for labor and employment . I am in hopes that these statements may be carefully considered , and our time is too short this evening to go into those items in detail although I hope to take them up again in this campaign . One of the most important issues of the campaign arises from the fact that the Democratic candidate has not yet disavowed the bill passed by the Democratic House of Representatives under the leadership of the Democratic candidate for Vice President to issue 2 , 300 million of greenback currency that is , unconvertible paper money . That is money purporting to come from the horn of plenty but with the death s head engraved upon it . Tampering with the currency has become a perennial policy of the Democratic Party . The Republican Party has had to repel that many times before now . In the absence of any declaration by the Democratic candidate on this subject during 7 weeks of this campaign , no delayed promise now can efface that policy . The taint of it is firmly embedded in the Democratic Party , and the dangers are embedded in this election . If you want to know what this new deal and this sort of money does to a people , ask any of your neighbors who have relatives in Europe , especially in Germany . I have stated that I do not favor the prepayment of the soldiers bonus of 2 , 300 million . It was passed by the last Democratic House of Representatives . It will no doubt be attempted again . The Democratic candidate has not yet stated to the American people fairly and squarely what his attitude will be upon that subject . The reasons why I do not approve of it can be illustrated by the father who in a generous moment promised his young son a bonus of 100 when he was 21 years old . That boy was led to ask his father for the 100 13 years in advance . His father said Times are bad . I am hard pressed . I have to bring up and educate a great many children , and I have not the money . I am placing 5 per annum in the savings bank and as it is compounded it will amount to the 100 when you are 21 years old . Some of his friends added that he might pay the boy in stage money . Now , the moral of that story is that you cannot eat your loaf of compound interest before the dough has had time to rise . And the further political moral of that story is that it was said by the father s political opponents that his son would never vote for his father for public office . There is no one in high public office who knows better than I do from personal observation the service given by the youth of this country in the Great War . I have insisted upon their care when in distress . I have expanded the services given to the veterans at the cost of much personal criticism . But with all of my regard and my feeling I cannot endanger the stability of this country in this special demand of a part of the veterans or any other special group . Someone just asked the difference between this payment and the loans given by the Reconstruction Corporation . There is just this difference One of them is a large gift from the Government and the other is loans upon security for a period of 6 months only . But of one thing I will assure the veterans , and that is , when they are paid , they will be paid in real American money . During the past few weeks the Democratic candidate has had a great deal to say in endeavoring to establish the idea in the minds of the American people that I am personally responsible for the bad loans by American bankers and investors to numerous foreign countries . He says This is an unsavory chapter in American finance . I agree with part of that . These bonds are in large part the fruit of the distressing policies pursued by the present administration in Washington . None other , if you please , than the ability of lending to backward and crippled countries . That is the end of the quotation from him . The Governor does not inform the American people that there is no Federal law regulating the sale of securities and that there is doubtful constitutional authority for such a law . And he fails to state that most of these bonds are issued from the State of New York , which sovereignty has such an authority , and where the government has done nothing of a reform to that evil , if it be one . I recollect a Republican Governor of New York who , believing that wrong was being done to the citizens of his own and other States on life insurance , found a man named Charles Evans Hughes who cleaned that mess up once and for all . The Governor has not stated to the American people my oft repeated warnings that American loans made in foreign countries should be upon sound security and confined to reproductive purposes . I have defined these loans as being the loans made for creative enterprise on which their own earnings would repay interest and capital . In one of his addresses the Governor pretends at least not to understand what a reproductive loan is , and yet , as I will show you in a moment , he does know something about it . I will say at once that when we have surplus capital , properly secured loans for reproductive purposes abroad are an advantage to the American people . They furnish work to American labor in the manufacture of plants and equipments they furnish continuing demand for American labor in supplies and replacements . The effect of such creative enterprise is to increase the standards of living amongst the people in those localities and enable them to buy more American Products and furnish additional work for American labor . I have no apologies to make for that statement . It is sound it makes for the upbuilding of the world it makes for employment of American workmen and profits for American investors . If it be followed there would be no losses . In these statements made by the Governor he entirely omits the conditions and warnings with which I have repeatedly surrounded the statements upon this subject and the warnings which indeed I have given broadcast over the last 7 years in respect to this type of investment . Although no Federal official has any authority to control the security offered on these loans , none of them have defaulted where the safeguards proposed by me have been followed . It is obvious from the Governor s many speeches that he now considers that all foreign loans are wrong . He seems to consider the selling of foreign bonds in our country to be wicked and the cause of our calamities . And an interesting part of all this tirade is that I have never yet been engaged in the selling of foreign bonds and foreign loans . I have not been accused of that . The Governor , however , has an advantage over me in experience in that particular . As late as 1928 the Governor was engaged in that business for profit and actively occupied in promotion of such loans . At that time he was the chairman of the organization committee of the Federal International Banking Company , a corporation organized for the selling of foreign securities and bonds to the American people . I have in my hand a prospectus of that corporation in which the foreword , written by Roosevelt before he resigned that position to take the Governorship , reads as follows The organizers of the Federal International Banking Company feel that foreign investments are in the nature of alliances . . . . The Federal International Banking Company will provide a new source of supply from which American demand for foreign investments may be satisfied . . . . It is intended to promote the expansion of American foreign trade . . . . Investments in the Federal International Banking are intended to be self liquidating . . . . It will be put to sound protective uses a part of the surplus capital of our Nation . . . . its operations can be widely distributed in foreign countries and various industries . . . . that we must aid foreign debtors to purchase our products , rehabilitate themselves , expand and develop , and earn money with which to liquidate their debts , that foreign loans should be facilitated to aid the export sale of American products . Now I will ask you if any more vivid statement of the policies which I have just pronounced to you was ever made than that . Throughout this prospectus constant reference is made to the fact that it is organized under the law , and the impression is given that in consequence it has some sort of official blessing from the Federal Government , including quotations from myself . I have no reason to believe , I do not believe , that the Governor s enterprise on this occasion was not perfectly proper and was soundly rounded . I do not wish to convey any such an impression . But the Governor as a private promoter for profit during the boom of 1928 believed and practiced what the Governor , a Presidential candidate , now denounces immoral and a cause of our calamities . Two weeks ago at Cleveland I felt it was necessary to denounce certain calumnies being circulated in this campaign by the Democratic National Committee in official instructions to their campaign speakers . That committee privately acknowledged that these have not a shred of foundation , and yet they refuse to take the manly course and withdraw those statements . They have sought to maintain their continuing poison by silence . I now have before me other calumnies of the Democratic National Committee , circulated in the same fashion by instructions to their campaign speakers . These instructions bristle with titles such as these and these questions will interest American women they are entitled How President Hoover has failed children . His real interest in the Nation s children may be gained by his re corded effort to emasculate and disrupt the Children s Bureau . The bunk of the Home Loan Bank . Governor Roosevelt implies his endorsement of these calumnies by repeating these implications in his speeches when he speaks of what he calls . . . attempts that have been made to cut appropriations for child welfare . And again when he states that the United States Public Health Service has said that over 6 million of our public school children have not enough to eat many of them are fainting at their desks they are the prey of disease and their future health is menaced . In another speech he uttered a slur on the Home Loan Banking System created by this administration largely through the leadership of your Senator . These things have importance only as indicating the desperate attempts to mislead the American voter . No woman in the United States believes that I am called upon to defend my interest in children over the past score of years . But more to the point of this discussion , I have a letter from the Chief of the United States Public Health Service to the effect that no such statement as that quoted by Governor Roosevelt has ever been put out by him or by that Service . Furthermore , I have an address , only a week old , by the president of the American Public Health Association , who is not a Government official , saying that by and large , the health oњ the people as measured in sickness and in death has never been better in the history of the United States despite this depression . That shows the devoted work of thousands of American women and men whom his statements in this campaign sought to slur . As to the Children s Bureau , I may demonstrate the untruth of that statement by the fact that the first year of my administration , despite hard times , I increased the appropriations of that Bureau from 320 , 000 to 368 , 000 , which was every cent the Bureau asked for , and in the second year I recommended appropriations of 399 , 000 , which was every cent they said they could advantageously spend , and in the third year I recommended appropriations of 395 , 000 , but the Democratic House of Representatives reduced this by 20 , 000 . That scarcely looks like an attempt to ruin the Children s Bureau especially on my part . In the matter of the home loan banks , the Governor states that this idea was brought out in the middle of the campaign , and , like the instructions to speakers sent out by the Democratic National Committee he makes slurs upon it . That statement falls a little to the ground in the same slough of untruth as the others when it is recollected that I rounded the Better Homes movement in the United States more than 10 years ago , whose activities in over 9 , 000 different communities through the devoted service of thousands of American women finally blossomed into the White House Conference on Home Building and Home Ownership more than a year ago . On that occasion I proposed and secured the backing of the men and women of the United States for the plan which ultimately resulted in the home loan banks . And that bill was drafted and presented to Congress in December last . The refusal of the Democratic House of Representatives to act prevented its passage until the last hour of the session 8 months later and then only when the pressures from the women and the men devoted to the upbuilding of the American home had become so great that they dare not defeat it in the face of this political campaign . Had that bill been passed when it was introduced , nearly a year ago , the suffering and losses of thousands of small homeowners in the United States would have been prevented . I consider that that act was the greatest act yet undertaken by any government at any time on behalf of thousands of owners of small homes . It provides the machinery , through the mobilization of building and loan associations and savings bank , by which we may assure to men and women the opportunity to bring up their children in the surroundings which make for true unity and true purpose in American life . Now , in conclusion , in Governor Roosevelt s address delivered on October 25 , he stated After March 4 , 1929 , the Republican Party was in complete control of all branches of the Government Executive , Senate , and House , and I may add , for good measure . . . the Supreme Court as well . I invite your attention to that statement about the Supreme Court . There are many things revealed in this campaign by our opponents which should give American citizens concern for the future . One of the gravest is the state of mind revealed by my opponent in that statement . He implies that it is the function of a party in power to control the Supreme Court . For generations the Republican and Democratic Presidents alike have made it their most sacred duty to respect and maintain the independence of America s greatest tribunal . President Taft appointed a Democratic Chief Justice President Harding mated a Democratic Justice my last appointment was a Democrat from the State of New York whose appointment was applauded by Republicans and Democrats alike the Nation over . All appointees of the Supreme Court have been chosen solely on the basis of their character and their mental power . Not since the Civil War have the members of that Court divided on political lines . Aside from the fact that the charge that the Supreme Court has been controlled by any political party is an atrocious one , there is a deeper implication in that statement . Does it disclose the Democratic candidate s conception of the functions of the Supreme Court Does he expect the Supreme Court to be subservient to him and his party Does that statement express his intention by his appointments or otherwise to attempt to reduce that tribunal to an instrument of party policy and political action for sustaining such doctrines as he may bring with him My countrymen , I repeat to you , the fundamental issue of this campaign , the decision that will fix the national direction for a hundred years to come , is whether we shall go on in fidelity to American traditions or whether we shall turn to innovations , the spirit of which is disclosed to us by many sinister revelations and veiled promises . My friends , I wish to make my position clear . I propose to go on in the faith and loyalty to the traditions of our race . I propose to build upon the foundations which our fathers have laid over this last 150 years .<speech_sep>To the Senate and House of Representatives It is my duty under the Constitution to transmit to the Congress information on the state of the Union and to recommend for its consideration necessary and expedient measures . The chief influence affecting the state of the Union during the past year has been the continued world wide economic disturbance . Our national concern has been to meet the emergencies it has created for us and to lay the foundations for recovery . If we lift our vision beyond these immediate emergencies we find fundamental national gains even amid depression . In meeting the problems of this difficult period , we have witnessed a remarkable development of the sense of cooperation in the community . For the first time in the history of our major economic depressions there has been a notable absence of public disorders and industrial conflict . Above all there is an enlargement of social and spiritual responsibility among the people . The strains and stresses upon business have resulted in closer application , in saner policies , and in better methods . Public improvements have been carried out on a larger scale than even in normal times . The country is richer in physical property , in newly discovered resources , and in productive capacity than ever before . There has been constant gain in knowledge and education there has been continuous advance in science and invention there has been distinct gain in public health . Business depressions have been recurrent in the life of our country and are but transitory . The Nation has emerged from each of them with increased strength and virility because of the enlightenment they have brought , the readjustments and the larger understanding of the realities and obligations of life and work which come from them . Both our Army and Navy have been maintained in a high state of efficiency . The ability and devotion of both officers and men sustain the highest traditions of the service . Reductions and postponements in expenditure of these departments to meet the present emergency are being made without reducing existing personnel or impairing the morale of either establishment . The agreement between the leading naval powers for limitation of naval armaments and establishment of their relative strength and thus elimination of competitive building also implies for ourselves the gradual expansion of the deficient categories in our Navy to the parities provided in those treaties . However , none of the other nations , parties to these agreements , is to day maintaining the full rate of construction which the treaty size of fleets would imply . Although these agreements secured the maximum reduction of fleets which it was at that time possible to attain , I am hopeful that the naval powers , party to these agreements , will realize that establishment of relative strength in itself offers opportunity for further reduction without injury to any of them . This would be the more possible if pending negotiations are successful between France and Italy . If the world is to regain its standards of life , it must further decrease both naval and other arms . The subject will come before the General Disarmament Conference which meets in Geneva on February 2 We are at peace with the world . We have cooperated with other nations to preserve peace . The rights of our citizens abroad have been protected . The economic depression has continued and deepened in every part of the world during the past year . In many countries political instability , excessive armaments , debts , governmental expenditures , and taxes have resulted in revolutions , in unbalanced budgets and monetary collapse and financial panics , in dumping of goods upon world markets , and in diminished consumption of commodities . Within two years there have been revolutions or acute social disorders in 19 countries , embracing more than half the population of the world . Ten countries have been unable to meet their external obligations . In 14 countries , embracing a quarter of the world s population , former monetary standards have been temporarily abandoned . In a number of countries there have been acute financial panics or compulsory restraints upon banking . These disturbances have many roots in the dislocations from the World War . Every one of them has reacted upon us . They have sharply affected the markets and prices of our agricultural and industrial products . They have increased unemployment and greatly embarrassed our financial and credit system . As our difficulties during the past year have plainly originated in large degree from these sources , any effort to bring about our own recuperation has dictated the necessity of cooperation by us with other nations in reasonable effort to restore world confidence and economic stability . Cooperation of our Federal reserve system and our banks with the central banks in foreign countries has contributed to localize and ameliorate a number of serious financial crises or moderate the pressures upon us and thus avert disasters which would have affected us . The economic crisis in Germany and Central Europe last June rose to the dimensions of a general panic from which it was apparent that without assistance these nations must collapse . Apprehensions of such collapse had demoralized our agricultural and security markets and so threatened other nations as to impose further dangers upon us . But of highest importance was the necessity of cooperation on our part to relieve the people of Germany from imminent disasters and to maintain their important relations to progress and stability in the world . Upon the initiative of this Government a year s postponement of reparations and other intergovernmental debts was brought about . Upon our further initiative an agreement was made by Germany s private creditors providing for an extension of such credits until the German people can develop more permanent and definite forms of relief . We have continued our policy of withdrawing our marines from Haiti and Nicaragua . The difficulties between China and Japan have given us great concern , not alone for the maintenance of the spirit of the Kellogg Briand Pact , but for the maintenance of the treaties to which we are a party assuring the territorial integrity of China . It is our purpose to assist in finding solutions sustaining the full spirit of those treaties . I shall deal at greater length with our foreign relations in a later message . Many undertakings have been organized and forwarded during the past year to meet the new and changing emergencies which have constantly confronted us . Broadly the community has cooperated to meet the needs of honest distress , and to take such emergency measures as would sustain confidence in our financial system and would cushion the violence of liquidation in industry and commerce , thus giving time for orderly readjustment of costs , inventories , and credits without panic and widespread bankruptcy . These measures have served those purposes and will promote recovery . In these measures we have striven to mobilize and stimulate private initiative and local and community responsibility . There has been the least possible Government entry into the economic field , and that only in temporary and emergency form . Our citizens and our local governments have given a magnificent display of unity and action , initiative and patriotism in solving a multitude of difficulties and in cooperating with the Federal Government . For a proper understanding of my recommendations to the Congress it is desirable very briefly to review such activities during the past year . The emergencies of unemployment have been met by action in many directions . The appropriations for the continued speeding up of the great Federal construction program have provided direct and indirect aid to employment upon a large scale . By organized unity of action , the States and municipalities have also maintained large programs of public improvement . Many industries have been prevailed upon to anticipate and intensify construction . Industrial concerns and other employers have been organized to spread available work amongst all their employees , instead of discharging a portion of them . A large majority have maintained wages at as high levels as the safe conduct of their business would permit . This course has saved us from industrial conflict and disorder which have characterized all previous depressions . Immigration has been curtailed by administrative action . Upon the basis of normal immigration the decrease amounts to about 300 , 000 individuals who otherwise would have been added to our unemployment . The expansion of Federal employment agencies under appropriations by the Congress has proved most effective . Through the President s organization for unemployment relief , public and private agencies were successfully mobilized last winter to provide employment and other measures against distress . Similar organization gives assurance against suffering during the coming winter . Committees of leading citizens are now active at practically every point of unemployment . In the large majority they have been assured the funds necessary which , together with local government aids , will meet the situation . A few exceptional localities will be further organized . The evidence of the Public Health Service shows an actual decrease of sickness and infant and general mortality below normal years . No greater proof could be adduced that our people have been protected from hunger and cold and that the sense of social responsibility in the Nation has responded to the need of the unfortunate . To meet the emergencies in agriculture the loans authorized by Congress for rehabilitation in the drought areas have enabled farmers to produce abundant crops in those districts . The Red Cross undertook and magnificently administered relief for over 2 , 500 , 000 drought sufferers last winter . It has undertaken this year to administer relief to 100 , 000 sufferers in the new drought area of certain Northwest States . The action of the Federal Farm Board in granting credits to farm cooperatives saved many of them from bankruptcy and increased their purpose and strength . By enabling farm cooperatives to cushion the fall in prices of farm products in 1930 and 1931 the Board secured higher prices to the farmer than would have been obtained otherwise , although the benefits of this action were partially defeated by continued world overproduction . Incident to this action the failure of a large number of farmers and of country banks was averted which could quite possibly have spread into a major disaster . The banks in the South have cooperated with the Farm Board in creation of a pool for the better marketing of accumulated cotton . Growers have been materially assisted by this action . Constant effort has been made to reduce overproduction in relief of agriculture and to promote the foreign buying of agricultural products by sustaining economic stability abroad . To meet our domestic emergencies in credit and banking arising from the reaction to acute crisis abroad the National Credit Association was set up by the banks with resources of 500 , 000 , 000 to support sound banks against the frightened withdrawals and hoarding . It is giving aid to reopen solvent banks which have been closed . Federal officials have brought about many beneficial unions of banks and have employed other means which have prevented many bank closings . As a result of these measures the hoarding withdrawals which had risen to over 250 , 000 , 000 per week after the British crisis have substantially ceased . The major economic forces and weaknesses at home and abroad have now been exposed and can be appraised , and the time is ripe for forward action to expedite our recovery . Although some of the causes of our depression are due to speculation , inflation of securities and real estate , unsound foreign investments , and mismanagement of financial institutions , yet our self contained national economy , with its matchless strength and resources , would have enabled us to recover long since but for the continued dislocations , shocks , and setbacks from abroad . Whatever the causes may be , the vast liquidation and readjustments which have taken place have left us with a large degree of credit paralysis , which together with the situation in our railways and the conditions abroad , are now the outstanding obstacles to recuperation . If we can put our financial resources to work and can ameliorate the financial situation in the railways , I am confident we can make a large measure of recovery independent of the rest of the world . A strong America is the highest contribution to world stability . One phase of the credit situation is indicated in the banks . During the past year banks , representing 3 per cent of our total deposits have been closed . A large part of these failures have been caused by withdrawals for hoarding , as distinguished from the failures early in the depression where weakness due to mismanagement was the larger cause of failure . Despite their closing , many of them will pay in full . Although such withdrawals have practically ceased , yet 1 , 100 , 000 , 000 of currency was previously withdrawn which has still to return to circulation . This represents a large reduction of the ability of our banks to extend credit which would otherwise fertilize industry and agriculture . Furthermore , many of our bankers , in order to prepare themselves to meet possible withdrawals , have felt compelled to call in loans , to refuse new credits , and to realize upon securities , which in turn has demoralized the markets . The paralysis has been further augmented by the steady increase in recent years of the proportion of bank assets invested in long term securities , such as mortgages and bonds . These securities tend to lose their liquidity in depression or temporarily to fall in value so that the ability of the banks to meet the shock of sudden withdrawal is greatly lessened and the restriction of all kinds of credit is thereby increased . The continuing credit paralysis has operated to accentuate the deflation and liquidation of commodities , real estate , and securities below any reasonable basis of values . All of this tends to stifle business , especially the smaller units , and finally expresses itself in further depression of prices and values , in restriction on new enterprise , and in increased unemployment . The situation largely arises from an unjustified lack of confidence . We have enormous volumes of idle money in the banks and in hoarding . We do not require more money or working capital we need to put what we have to work . The fundamental difficulties which have brought about financial strains in foreign countries do not exist in the United States . No external drain on our resources can threaten our position , because the balance of international payments is in our favor we owe less to foreign countries than they owe to us our industries are efficiently organized our currency and bank deposits are protected by the greatest gold reserve in history . Our first step toward recovery is to reestablish confidence and thus restore the flow of credit which is the very basis of our economic life . We must put some steel beams in the foundations of our credit structure . It is our duty to apply the full strength of our Government not only to the immediate phases , but to provide security against shocks and the repetition of the weaknesses which have been proven . The recommendations which I here lay before the Congress are designed to meet these needs by strengthening financial , industrial , and agricultural life through the medium of our existing institutions , and thus to avoid the entry of the Government into competition with private business . The first requirement of confidence and of economic recovery is financial stability of the United States Government . I shall deal with fiscal questions at greater length in the Budget message . But I must at this time call attention to the magnitude of the deficits which have developed and the resulting necessity for determined and courageous policies . These deficits arise in the main from the heavy decrease in tax receipts due to the depression and to the increase in expenditure on construction in aid to unemployment , aids to agriculture , and upon services to veterans . During the fiscal year ending June 30 last we incurred a deficit of about 903 , 000 , 000 , which included the statutory reduction of the debt and represented an increase of the national debt by 616 , 000 , 000 . Of this , however , 153 , 000 , 000 is offset by increased cash balances . In comparison with the fiscal year 1928 there is indicated a fall in Federal receipts for the present fiscal year amounting to 1 , 683 , 000 , 000 , of which 1 , 034 , 000 , 000 is in individual and corporate income taxes alone . During this fiscal year there will be an increased expenditure , as compared to 1928 , on veterans of 255 , 000 , 000 , and an increased expenditure on construction work which may reach 520 , 000 , 000 . Despite large economies in other directions , we have an indicated deficit , including the statutory retirement of the debt , of 2 , 123 , 000 , 000 , and an indicated net debt increase of about 1 , 711 , 000 , 000 . The Budget for the fiscal year beginning July 1 next , after allowing for some increase of taxes under the present laws and after allowing for drastic reduction in expenditures , still indicates a deficit of 1 , 417 , 000 , 000 . After offsetting the statutory debt retirements this would indicate an increase in the national debt for the fiscal year 1933 of about 921 , 000 , 000 . Several conclusions are inevitable . We must have insistent and determined reduction in Government expenses . We must face a temporary increase in taxes . Such increase should not cover the whole of these deficits or it will retard recovery . We must partially finance the deficit by borrowing . It is my view that the amount of taxation should be fixed so as to balance the Budget for 1933 except for the statutory debt retirement . Such Government receipts would assure the balance of the following year s budget including debt retirement . It is my further view that the additional taxation should be imposed solely as an emergency measure terminating definitely two years from July 1 next . Such a basis will give confidence in the determination of the Government to stabilize its finance and will assure taxpayers of its temporary character . Even with increased taxation , the Government will reach the utmost safe limit of its borrowing capacity by the expenditures for which we are already obligated and the recommendations here proposed . To go further than these limits in either expenditures , taxes , or borrowing will destroy confidence , denude commerce and industry of its resources , jeopardize the financial system , and actually extend unemployment and demoralize agriculture rather than relieve it . I recommend that the Congress authorize the subscription by the Treasury of further capital to the Federal land banks to be retired as provided in the original act , or when funds are available , and that repayments of such capital be treated as a fund available for further subscriptions in the same manner . It is urgent that the banks be supported so as to stabilize the market values of their bonds and thus secure capital for the farmers at low rates , that they may continue their services to agriculture and that they may meet the present situation with consideration to the farmers . A method should be devised to make available quickly to depositors some portion of their deposits in closed banks as the assets of such banks may warrant . Such provision would go far to relieve distress in a multitude of families , would stabilize values in many communities , and would liberate working capital to thousands of concerns . I recommend that measures be enacted promptly to accomplish these results and I suggest that the Congress should consider the development of such a plan through the Federal Reserve Banks . I recommend the establishment of a system of home loan discount banks as the necessary companion in our financial structure of the Federal Reserve Banks and our Federal Land Banks . Such action will relieve present distressing pressures against home and farm property owners . It will relieve pressures upon and give added strength to building and loan associations , savings banks , and deposit banks , engaged in extending such credits . Such action would further decentralize our credit structure . It would revive residential construction and employment . It would enable such loaning institutions more effectually to promote home ownership . I discussed this plan at some length in a statement made public November 14 , last . This plan has been warmly indorsed by the recent National Conference upon Home Ownership and Housing , whose members were designated by the governors of the States and the groups interested . In order that the public may be absolutely assured and that the Government may be in position to meet any public necessity , I recommend that an emergency Reconstruction Corporation of the nature of the former War Finance Corporation should be established . It may not be necessary to use such an instrumentality very extensively . The very existence of such a bulwark will strengthen confidence . The Treasury should be authorized to subscribe a reasonable capital to it , and it should be given authority to issue its own debentures . It should be placed in liquidation at the end of two years . Its purpose is that by strengthening the weak spots to thus liberate the full strength of the Nation s resources . It should be in position to facilitate exports by American agencies make advances to agricultural credit agencies where necessary to protect and aid the agricultural industry to make temporary advances upon proper securities to established industries , railways , and financial institutions which can not otherwise secure credit , and where such advances will protect the credit structure and stimulate employment . Its functions would not overlap those of the National Credit Corporation . On October 6th I issued a statement that I should recommend to the Congress an extension during emergencies of the eligibility provisions in the Federal reserve act . This statement was approved by a representative gathering of the Members of both Houses of the Congress , including members of the appropriate committees . It was approved by the officials of the Treasury Department , and I understand such an extension has been approved by a majority of the governors of the Federal reserve banks . Nothing should be done which would lower the safeguards of the system . The establishment of the mortgage discount banks herein referred to will also contribute to further reserve strength in the banks without inflation . Our people have a right to a banking system in which their deposits shall be safeguarded and the flow of credit less subject to storms . The need of a sounder system is plainly shown by the extent of bank failures . I recommend the prompt improvement of the banking laws . Changed financial conditions and commercial practices must be met . The Congress should investigate the need for separation between different kinds of banking an enlargement of branch banking under proper restrictions and the methods by which enlarged membership in the Federal reserve system may be brought about . The Postal Savings deposits have increased from about 200 , 000 , 000 to about 550 , 000 , 000 during the past year . This experience has raised important practical questions in relation to deposits and investments which should receive the attention of the Congress . The railways present one of our immediate and pressing problems . They are and must remain the backbone of our transportation system . Their prosperity is interrelated with the prosperity of all industries . Their fundamental service in transportation , the volume of their employment , their buying power for supplies from other industries , the enormous investment in their securities , particularly their bonds , by insurance companies , savings banks , benevolent and other trusts , all reflect their partnership in the whole economic fabric . Through these institutions the railway bonds are in a large sense the investment of every family . The well maintained and successful operation and the stability of railway finances are of primary importance to economic recovery . They should have more effective opportunity to reduce operating costs by proper consolidation . As their rates must be regulated in public interest , so also approximate regulation should be applied to competing services by some authority . The methods of their regulation should be revised . The Interstate Commerce Commission has made important and far reaching recommendations upon the whole subject , which I commend to the early consideration of the Congress . In my message of a year ago I commented on the necessity of congressional inquiry into the economic action of the antitrust laws . There is wide conviction that some change should be made especially in the procedure under these laws . I do not favor their repeal . Such action would open wide the door to price fixing , monopoly , and destruction of healthy competition . Particular attention should be given to the industries rounded upon natural resources , especially where destructive competition produces great wastes of these resources and brings great hardships upon operators , employees , and the public . In recent years there has been continued demoralization in the bituminous coal , oil , and lumber industries . I again commend the matter to the consideration of the Congress . As an aid to unemployment the Federal Government is engaged in the greatest program of public building , harbor , flood control , highway , waterway , aviation , merchant and naval ship construction in all history . Our expenditures on these works during this calendar year will reach about 780 , 000 , 000 compared with 260 , 000 , 000 in 1928 . Through this increased construction , through the maintenance of a full complement of Federal employees , and through services to veterans it is estimated that the Federal taxpayer is now directly contributing to the livelihood of 10 , 000 , 000 of our citizens . We must avoid burdens upon the Government which will create more unemployment in private industry than can be gained by further expansion of employment by the Federal Government . We can now stimulate employment and agriculture more effectually and speedily through the voluntary measures in progress , through the thawing out of credit , through the building up of stability abroad , through the home loan discount banks , through an emergency finance corporation and the rehabilitation of the railways and other such directions . I am opposed to any direct or indirect Government dole . The breakdown and increased unemployment in Europe is due in part to such practices . Our people are providing against distress from unemployment in true American fashion by a magnificent response to public appeal and by action of the local governments . There are many other subjects requiring legislative action at this session of the Congress . I may list the following among them The law enacted last March authorizing loans of 50 per cent upon adjusted service certificates has , together with the loans made under previous laws , resulted in payments of about 1 , 260 , 000 , 000 . Appropriations have been exhausted . The Administrator of Veterans Affairs advises that a further appropriation of 200 , 000 , 000 is required at once to meet the obligations made necessary by existing legislation . There will be demands for further veterans legislation there are inequalities in our system of veterans relief it is our national duty to meet our obligations to those who have served the Nation . But our present expenditure upon these services now exceeds 1 , 000 , 000 , 000 per annum . I am opposed to any extension of these expenditures until the country has recovered from the present situation . I have recommended in previous messages the effective regulation of interstate electrical power as the essential function of the reorganized Federal Power Commission . I renew the recommendation . It is urgently needed in public protection . At my suggestion , the Governors and Legislatures of Alabama and Tennessee selected three members each for service on a committee to which I appointed a representative of the farm organizations and two representatives of the War Department for the purpose of recommending a plan for the disposal of these properties which would be in the interest of the people of those States and the agricultural industry throughout the country . I shall transmit the recommendations to the Congress . I have referred in previous messages to the profound need of further reorganization and consolidation of Federal administrative functions to eliminate overlap and waste , and to enable coordination and definition of Government policies now wholly impossible in scattered and conflicting agencies which deal with parts of the same major function . I shall lay before the Congress further recommendations upon this subject , particularly in relation to the Department of the Interior . There are two directions of such reorganization , however , which have an important bearing upon the emergency problems with which we are confronted . At present the Shipping Board exercises large administrative functions independent of the Executive . These administrative functions should be transferred to the Department of Commerce , in keeping with that single responsibility which has been the basis of our governmental structure since its foundation . There should be created in that department a position of Assistant Secretary for Merchant Marine , under whom this work and the several bureaus having to do with merchant marine may be grouped . The Shipping Board should be made a regulatory body acting also in advisory capacity on loans and policies , in keeping with its original conception . Its regulatory powers should be amended to include regulation of coastwise shipping so as to assure stability and better service . It is also worthy of consideration that the regulation of rates and services upon the inland waterways should be assigned to such a reorganized board . I recommend that all building and construction activities of the Government now carried on by many departments be consolidated into an independent establishment under the President to be known as the Public Works Administration directed by a Public Works Administrator . This agency should undertake all construction work in service to the different departments of the Government except naval and military work . The services of the Corps of Army Engineers should be delegated in rotation for military duty to this administration in continuation of their supervision of river and harbor work . Great economies , sounder policies , more effective coordination to employment , and expedition in all construction work would result from this consolidation . I shall present some recommendations in a special message looking to the strengthening of criminal law enforcement and improvement in judicial procedure connected therewith . These improvements are now proceeding upon an unprecedented scale . Some indication of the volume of work in progress is conveyed by the fact that during the current year over 380 , 000 , 000 cubic yards of material have been moved an amount equal to the entire removal in the construction of the Panama Canal . The Mississippi waterway system , connecting Chicago , Kansas City , Pittsburgh , and New Orleans , will be in full operation during 1933 . Substantial progress is being made upon the projects of the upper Missouri , upper Mississippi , etc . Negotiations are now in progress with Canada for the construction of the Lawrence Waterway . Wages and standards of living abroad have been materially lowered during the past year . The temporary abandonment of the gold standard by certain countries has also reduced their production costs compared to ours . Fortunately any increases in the tariff which may be necessary to protect agriculture and industry from these lowered foreign costs , or decreases in items which may prove to be excessive , may be undertaken at any time by the Tariff Commission under authority which it possesses by virtue of the tariff act of 1930 . The commission during the past year has reviewed the rates upon over 254 items subject to tariff . As a result of vigorous and industrious action , it is up to date in the consideration of pending references and is prepared to give prompt attention to any further applications . This procedure presents an orderly method for correcting inequalities . I am opposed to any general congressional revision of the tariff . Such action would disturb industry , business , and agriculture . It would prolong the depression . I recommend that immigration restriction now in force under administrative action be placed upon a more definite basis by law . The deportation laws should be strengthened . Aliens lawfully in the country should be protected by the issuance of a certificate of residence . I again call attention to my previous recommendations upon this subject , particularly in its relation to children . The moral results are of the utmost importance . It is inevitable that in these times much of the legislation proposed to the Congress and many of the recommendations of the Executive must be designed to meet emergencies . In reaching solutions we must not jeopardize those principles which we have found to be the basis of the growth of the Nation . The Federal Government must not encroach upon nor permit local communities to abandon that precious possession of local initiative and responsibility . Again , just as the largest measure of responsibility in the government of the Nation rests upon local self government , so does the largest measure of social responsibility in our country rest upon the individual . If the individual surrenders his own initiative and responsibilities , he is surrendering his own freedom and his own liberty . It is the duty of the National Government to insist that both the local governments and the individual shall assume and bear these responsibilities as a fundamental of preserving the very basis of our freedom . Many vital changes and movements of vast proportions are taking place in the economic world . The effect of these changes upon the future can not be seen clearly as yet . Of this , however , we are sure Our system , based upon the ideals of individual initiative and of equality of opportunity , is not an artificial thing . Rather it is the outgrowth of the experience of America , and expresses the faith and spirit of our people . It has carried us in a century and a half to leadership of the economic world . If our economic system does not match our highest expectations at all times , it does not require revolutionary action to bring it into accord with any necessity that experience may prove . It has successfully adjusted itself to changing conditions in the past . It will do so again . The mobility of our institutions , the richness of our resources , and the abilities of our people enable us to meet them unafraid . It is a distressful time for many of our people , but they have shown qualities as high in fortitude , courage , and resourcefulness as ever in our history . With that spirit , I have faith that out of it will come a sounder life , a truer standard of values , a greater recognition of the results of honest effort , and a healthier atmosphere in which to rear our children . Ours must be a country of such stability and security as can not fail to carry forward and enlarge among all the people that abundant life of material and spiritual opportunity which it has represented among all nations since its beginning .<speech_sep>This campaign is more than a contest between two men . It is more than a contest between two parties . It is a contest between two philosophies of government . We are told by the opposition that we must have a change , that we must have a new deal . It is not the change that comes from normal development of national life to which I object , but the proposal to alter the whole foundations of our national life which have been builded through generations of testing and struggle , and of the principles upon which we have builded the nation . The expressions our opponents use must refer to important changes in our economic and social system and our system of government , otherwise they are nothing but vacuous words . And I realize that in this time of distress many of our people are asking whether our social and economic system is incapable of that great primary function of providing security and comfort of life to all of the firesides of our 25 , 000 , 000 homes in America , whether our social system provides for the fundamental development and progress of our people , whether our form of government is capable of originating and sustaining that security and progress . This question is the basis upon which our opponents are appealing to the people in their fears and distress . They are proposing changes and so called new deals , which would destroy the very foundations of our American system . Our people should consider the primary facts before they come to the judgment not merely through political agitation , the glitter of promise , and the discouragement of temporary hardships whether they will support changes , which radically affect the whole system , which has been builded up by a hundred and fifty years of the toil of the fathers . They should not approach the question in the despair with which our opponents would clothe it . Our economic system has received abnormal shocks during the last three years , which temporarily dislocated its normal functioning . These shocks have in large sense come from without our borders , but I say to you that our system of government has enabled us to take such strong action as to prevent the disaster , which would otherwise have come to our Nation . It has enabled us further to develop measures and programs , which are now demonstrating their ability to bring about restoration and progress . We must go deeper than platitudes and emotional appeals of the public platform in the campaign , if we will penetrate to the full significance of the changes , which our opponents are attempting to float upon the wave of distress and discontent from the difficulties we are passing through . We can find what our opponents would do after searching the record of their appeals to discontent , group and sectional interest . We must search for them in the legislative acts , which they sponsored and passed in the Democratic controlled House of Representatives in the last session of Congress . We must look into measures for which they voted and which were defeated . We must inquire whether or not the Presidential and Vice Presidential candidates have disavowed these acts . If they have not , we must conclude that they form a portion and are a substantial indication of the profound changes proposed . And we must look still further than this as to what revolutionary changes have been proposed by the candidates themselves . We must look into the type of leaders who are campaigning for the Democratic ticket , whose philosophies have been well known all their lives , whose demands for a change in the American system are frank and forceful . I can respect the sincerity of these men in their desire to change our form of government and our social and economic system , though I shall do my best tonight to prove they are wrong . I refer particularly to Senator Norris , Senator LaFollette , Senator Cutting , Senator Huey Long , Senator Wheeler , William Hearst , and other exponents of a social philosophy different from the traditional American one . Unless these men feel assurance of support to their ideas they certainly would not be supporting these candidates and the Democratic Party . The seal of these men indicates that they have sure confidence that they will have voice in the administration of our government . I may say at once that the changes proposed from all these Democratic principles and allies are of the most profound and penetrating character . If they are brought about this will not be the American , which we have known in the past . Let us pause for a moment and examine the American system of government , of social and economic life , which it is now proposed that we should alter . Our system is the product of our race and of our experience in building a nation to heights unparalleled in the whole history of the world . It is a system peculiar to the American People . It differs essentially from all others in the world . It is an American system . It is founded on the conception that only through ordered liberty , through freedom to the individual , and equal opportunity to the individual will his initiative and enterprise be summoned to spur the march of progress . It is by the maintenance of equality of opportunity and therefore of a society absolutely fluid in freedom of the movement of its human particles that our individualism departs from the individualism of Europe . We resent class distinction because there can be no rise for the individual through the frozen strata of classes and no stratification of classes can take place in a mass livened by the free rise of its particles . Thus in our ideals the able and ambitious are able to rise constantly from the bottom to leadership in the community . This freedom of the individual creates of itself the necessity and the cheerful willingness of men to act co operatively in a thousand ways and for every purpose as occasion arises and it permits such voluntary co operations to be dissolved as soon as they have served their purpose , to be replaced by new voluntary associations for new purposes . There has thus grown within us , to gigantic importance , a new conception . That is , this voluntary co operation within the community . Co operation to perfect the social organizations co operation for the care of those in distress co operation for the advancement of knowledge , of scientific research , of education for co operative action in the advancement of many phases of economic life . This is self government by the people outside of Government it is the most powerful development of individual freedom and equal opportunity that has taken place in the century and a half since our fundamental institutions were founded . It is in the further development of this co operation and a sense of its responsibility that we should find solution for many of our complex problems , and not by the extension of government into our economic and social life . The greatest function of government is to build up that co operation , and its most resolute action should be to deny the extension of bureaucracy . We have developed great agencies of co operation by the assistance of the Government , which promote and protect the interests of individuals and the smaller units of business . The Federal Reserve System , in its strengthening and support of the smaller banks the Farm Board , in its strengthening and support of the farm co operatives the Home Loan banks , in the mobilizing of building and loan associations and savings banks the Federal land banks , in giving independence and strength to land mortgage associations the great mobilization of relief to distress , the mobilization of business and industry in measures of recovery , and a score of other activities are not socialism they are the essence of protection to the development of free men . The primary conception of this whole American system is not the regimentation of men but the co operation of free men . It is founded upon the conception of responsibility of the individual to the community , of the responsibility of local government to the State , of the State to the national Government . It is founded on a peculiar conception of self government designed to maintain this equal opportunity to the individual , and through decentralization it brings about and maintains these responsibilities . The centralization of government will undermine responsibilities and will destroy the system . Our Government differs from all previous conceptions , not only in this decentralization , but also in the separation of functions between the legislative , executive , and judicial arms of government , in which the independence of the judicial arm is the keystone of the whole structure . It is founded on a conception that in times of emergency , when forces are running beyond control of individuals or other co operative action , beyond the control of local communities and of States , then the great reserve powers of the Federal Government shall be brought into action to protect the community . But when these forces have ceased there must be a return of State , local , and individual responsibility . The implacable march of scientific discovery with its train of new inventions presents every year new problems to government and new problems to the social order . Questions often arise whether , in the face of the growth of these new and gigantic tools , democracy can remain master in its own house , can preserve the fundamentals of our American system . I contend that it can and I contend that this American system of ours has demonstrated its validity and superiority over any system yet invented by human mind . It has demonstrated it in the face of the greatest test of our history that is the emergency , which we have faced in the last three years . When the political and economic weakness of many nations of Europe , the result of the World War and its aftermath , finally culminated in collapse of their institutions , the delicate adjustments of our economic and social life received a shock unparalleled in our history . No one knows that better than you of New York . No one knows it causes better than you . That the crisis was so great that many of the leading banks sought directly or indirectly to convert their assets into gold or its equivalent with the result that they practically ceased to function as credit institutions that many of our citizens sought flight for their capital to other countries that many of them attempted to hoard gold in large amounts . These were but indications of the flight of confidence and of the belief that our Government could not overcome these forces . Yet these forces were overcome perhaps by narrow margins and this action demonstrates what the courage of a nation can accomplish under the resolute leadership in the Republican Party . And I say the Republican Party because our opponents , before and during the crisis , proposed no constructive program though some of their members patriotically supported ours . Later on the Democratic House of Representatives did develop the real thought and ideas of the Democratic Party , but it was so destructive that it had to be defeated , for it would have destroyed , not healed . In spite of all these obstructions we did succeed . Our form of government did prove itself equal to the task . We saved this Nation from a quarter of a century of chaos and degeneration , and we preserved the savings , the insurance policies , gave a fighting chance to men to hold their homes . We saved the integrity of our Government and the honesty of the American dollar . And we installed measures , which today are bringing back recovery . Employment , agriculture , business all of these show the steady , if slow , healing of our enormous wound . I therefore contend that the problem of today is to continue these measures and policies to restore this American system to its normal functioning , to repair the wounds it has received , to correct the weaknesses and evils , which would defeat that system . To enter upon a series of deep changes to embark upon this inchoate new deal , which has been propounded in this campaign , would be to undermine and destroy our American system . Before we enter upon such courses , I would like you to consider what the results of this American system have been during the last thirty years that is , one single generation . For if it can be demonstrated that by means of this , our unequalled political , social , and economic system , we have secured a lift in the standards of living and a diffusion of comfort and hope to men and women , the growth of equal opportunity , the widening of all opportunity , such as had never been seen in the history of the world , then we should not tamper with it or destroy it but on the contrary we should restore it and , by its gradual improvement and perfection , foster it into new performance for our country and for our children . Now , if we look back over the last generation we find that the number of our families and , therefore , our homes , has increased from sixteen to twenty five million , or 62 per cent . In that time we have builded for them 15 , 000 , 000 new and better homes . We have equipped 20 , 000 , 000 homes with electricity thereby we have lifted infinite drudgery from women and men . The barriers of time and space have been swept away . Life has been made freer the intellectual vision of every individual has been expanded by the installation of 20 , 000 , 000 telephones , 12 , 000 , 000 radios , and the service of 20 , 000 , 000 automobiles . Our cities have been made magnificent with beautiful buildings , parks , and playgrounds . Our countryside has been knit together with splendid roads . We have increased by twelve times the use of electrical power and thereby taken sweat from the backs of men . In this broad sweep real wages and purchasing power of men and women have steadily increased . New comforts have steadily come to them . The hours of labor have decreased , the 12 hour day has disappeared , even the 9 hour day has almost gone . We are now advancing the 5 day week . The portals of opportunity to our children have ever widened . While our population grew by but 62 per cent , we have increased the number of children in high schools by 700 per cent , those in institutions of higher learning by 300 per cent . With all our spending , we multiplied by six times the savings in our banks and in our building and loan associations . We multiplied by 1 , 200 per cent the amount of our life insurance . With the enlargement of our leisure we have come to a fuller life we gained new visions of hope , we more nearly realize our national aspiration and give increasing scope to the creative power of every individual and expansion of every man s mind . Our people in these thirty years grew in the sense of social responsibility . There is profound progress in the relation of the employer and employed . We have more nearly met with a full hand the most sacred obligation of man , that is , the responsibility of a man to his neighbor . Support to our schools , hospitals , and institutions for the care of the afflicted surpassed in totals of billions the proportionate service in any period of history in any nation in the world . Three years ago there came a break in this progress . A break of the same type we have met fifteen times a century and yet we have overcome them . But eighteen months later came a further blow by shocks transmitted to us by the earthquakes of the collapse in nations throughout the world as the aftermath of the World War . The workings of our system were dislocated . Millions of men and women are out of jobs . Businessmen and farmers suffer . Their distress is bitter . I do not seek to minimize the depth of it . We may thank God that in view of this storm 30 , 000 , 000 still have their jobs yet this must not distract our thoughts from the suffering of the other 10 , 000 , 000 . But I ask you what has happened . These thirty years of incomparable improvement in the scale of living , the advance of comfort and intellectual life , inspiration and ideals did not arise without right principles animating the American system , which produced them . Shall that system be discarded because vote seeking men appeal to distress and say that the machinery is all wrong and that it must be abandoned or tampered with Is it not more sensible to realize the simple fact that some extraordinary force has been thrown into the mechanism , temporarily deranging its operation Is it not wiser to believe that the difficulty is not with the principles upon which our American system is founded and designed through all these generations of inheritance Should not our purpose be to restore the normal working of that system which has brought to us such immeasurable benefits , and not destroy it And in order to indicate to you that the proposals of our opponents will endanger or destroy our system , I propose to analyze a few of the proposals of our opponents in the relation to these fundamentals . First A proposal of our opponents , which would break down the American system , is the expansion of Government expenditure by yielding to sectional and group raids on the Public Treasury . The extension of Government expenditures beyond the minimum limit necessary to conduct the proper functions of the Government enslaves men to work for the Government . If we combine the whole governmental expenditures national , State , and municipal we will find that before the World Way each citizen worked , theoretically , twenty five days out of each year for the Government . Today he works for the support of all forms of Government sixty one days out of the year . No nation can conscript its citizens for this proportion of men s time without national impoverishment and destruction of their liberties . Our Nation cannot do it without destruction to our whole conception of the American system . The Federal Government has been forced in this emergency to unusual expenditure , but in partial alleviation of these extraordinary and unusual expenditures the Republican Administration has made a successful effort to reduce the ordinary running expenses of the Government . Our opponents have persistently interfered with such policies . I only need recall to you that the Democratic House of Representatives passed bills in the last session that would have increased our expenditures by 3 , 500 , 000 , 000 , or 87 per cent . Expressed in days labor , this would have meant the conscription of sixteen days additional work from every citizen for the Government . This I stopped . Furthermore , they refused to accept recommendations from the Administration in respect to 150 , 000 , 000 to 200 , 000 , 000 of reductions in ordinary expenditures , and finally they forced upon us increasing expenditure of 322 , 000 , 000 . In spite of this , the ordinary expenses of the Government have been reduced upwards of 200 , 000 , 000 during this present administration . They will be decidedly further reduced . But the major point I wish to make the disheartening part of these proposals of our opponents is that they represent successful pressures of minorities . They would appeal to sectional and group political support and thereby impose terrific burdens upon every home in the country . These things can and must be resisted . But they can only be resisted if there shall be live and virile public support to the Administration , in opposition to political log rolling and the sectional and group raids on the Treasury for distribution of public money , which is cardinal in the congeries of elements which make up the Democratic Party . These expenditures proposed by the Democratic House of Representatives for the benefit of special groups and special sections of our country directly undermine the American system . Those who pay are , in the last analysis , the man who works at the bench , the desk , and on the farm . They take away his comfort , stifle his leisure , and destroy his equal opportunity . Second Another proposal of our opponents , which would destroy the American system , is that of inflation of the currency . The bill , which passed the last session of the Democratic House , called upon the Treasure of the United States to issue 2 , 300 , 000 , 000 in paper currency that would be unconvertible into solid values . Call it what you will , greenbacks or fiat money . It was that nightmare which overhung our own country for years after the Civil War . . . . Third In the last session the Congress , under the personal leadership of the Democratic Vice Presidential candidate , and their allies in the Senate , enacted a law to extend the Government into personal banking business . This I was compelled to veto , out of fidelity to the whole American system of life and government . . . . Fourth Another proposal of our opponents , which would wholly alter our American system of life , is to reduce the protective tariff to a competitive tariff for revenue . The protective tariff and its results upon our economic structure has become gradually embedded into our economic life since the first protective tariff act passed by the American Congress under the Administration of George Washington . There have been gaps at times of Democratic control when this protection has been taken away . But it has been so embedded that its removal has never failed to bring disaster . . . . Fifth Another proposal is that the Government go into the power business . Three years ago , in view of the extension of the use of transmission of power over State borders and the difficulties of State regulatory bodies in the face of this interstate action , I recommended to the Congress that such interstate power should be placed under regulation by the Federal Government in co operation with the State authorities . That recommendation was in accord with the principles of the Republican Party over the last fifty years , to provide regulation where public interest had developed in tools of industry , which was beyond control , and regulation of the States . I succeeded in creating an independent Power Commission to handle such matters , but the Democratic House declined to approve the further powers to this commission necessary for such regulation . I have stated unceasingly that I am opposed to the Federal Government going into the power business . I have insisted upon rigid regulation . The Democratic candidate has declared that under the same conditions , which may make local action of this character desirable , he is prepared to put the Federal Government into the power business . He is being actively supported by a score of Senators in this campaign , many of whose expenses are being paid by the Democratic National Committee , who are pledged to Federal Government development and operation of electrical power . I find in the instructions to campaign speakers issued by the Democratic National Committee that they are instructed to criticize my action in the veto of the bill , which would have put the Government permanently into the operation of power at Muscle shoals with a capital from the Federal Treasury of over 100 , 000 , 000 . In fact thirty one Democratic Senators , being all except three , voted to override that veto . In that bill was the flat issue of the Federal Government permanently in competitive business . I vetoed it because of principle and not because it was especially the power business . In the veto I stated that I was firmly opposed to the Federal Government entering into any business , the major purpose of which is competition with our citizens . I said There are national emergencies which require that the Government should temporarily enter the field of business but that they must be emergency actions and in matters where the cost of the project is secondary to much higher consideration . There are many localities where the Federal Government is justified in the construction of great dams and reservoirs , where navigation , flood control , reclamation , or stream regulation are of dominant importance , and where they are beyond the capacity or purpose of private or local government capital to construct . In these cases , power is often a by product and should be disposed of by contract or lease . But for the Federal Government to deliberately go out to build up and expand such an occasion to the major purpose of a power and manufacturing business is to break down the initiative and enterprise of the American people it is destruction of equality of opportunity among our people it is the negation of the ideals upon which our civilization has been based . This bill raises one of the important issues confronting our people . That is squarely the issue of Federal Government ownership and operation of power and manufacturing business not as a minor by product but as a major purpose . Involved in this question is the agitation against the conduct of the power industry . The power problem is not to be solved by the Federal Government going into the power business , nor is it to be solved by the project in this bill . The remedy for abuses in the conduct of that industry lies in regulation and not by the Federal Government entering upon the business itself . I have recommended to the Congress on various occasions that action should be taken to establish Federal regulation of interstate power in co operation with State authorities . This bill would launch the Federal Government upon a policy of ownership of power utilities upon a basis of competition instead of by the proper Government function of regulation for the protection of all the people . I hesitate to contemplate the future of our institutions , of our Government , and of or country , if the preoccupation of its officials is to be no longer the promotion of justice and equal opportunity but is to be devoted to barter in the markets . That is not liberalism it is degeneration . From their utterances in this campaign and elsewhere we are justified in the conclusion that our opponents propose to put the Federal Government in the power business with all its additions to Federal bureaucracy , its tyranny over State and local governments , its undermining of State and local responsibilities and initiative . Sixth I may cite another instance of absolutely destructive proposals to our American system by our opponents . Recently there was circulated through the unemployed in this country a letter from the Democratic candidate in which he stated that he . . . would support measures for the inauguration of self liquidating public works such as the utilization of water resources , flood control , land reclamation , to provide employment for all surplus labor at all times . I especially emphasize that promise to promote employment for all surplus labor at all times . At first I could not believe that any one would be so cruel as to hold out a hope so absolutely impossible of realization to those 10 , 000 , 000 who are unemployed . But the authenticity of this promise has been verified . And I protest against such frivolous promises being held out to a suffering people . It is easily demonstrable that no such employment can be found . But the point I wish to make here and now is the mental attitude and spirit of the Democratic Party to attempt it . It is another mark of the character of the new deal and the destructive changes which mean the total abandonment of every principle upon which this Government and the American system are founded . If it were possible to give this employment to 10 , 000 , 000 people by the Government , it would cost upwards of 9 , 000 , 000 , 00 a year . . . . I have said before , and I want to repeat on this occasion , that the only method by which we can stop the suffering and unemployment is by returning our people to their normal jobs in their normal homes , carrying on their normal functions of living . This can be done only by sound processes of protecting and stimulating recovery of the existing economic system upon which we have builded our progress thus far preventing distress and giving such sound employment as we can find in the meantime . Seventh Recently , at Indianapolis , I called attention to the statement made by Governor Roosevelt in his address on October 25th with respect to the Supreme Court of the United States . He said After March 4 , 1929 , the Republican Party was in complete control of all branches of the Government Executive , Senate , and House , and I may add , for good measure , in order to make it complete , the Supreme Court as well . I am not called upon to defend the Supreme Court of the United States from this slurring reflection . Fortunately that court has jealously maintained over the years its high standard of integrity , impartiality , and freedom from influence of either the Executive or Congress , so that the confidence of the people is sound and unshaken . But is the Democratic candidate really proposing his conception of the relation of the Executive and the Supreme Court If that is his idea , he is proposing the most revolutionary new deal , the most stupendous breaking of precedent , the most destructive undermining of the very safeguard of our form of government yet proposed by a Presidential candidate . Eighth In order that we may get at the philosophical background of the mind , which pronounces the necessity for profound change in our American system and a new deal , I would call your attention to an address delivered by the Democratic candidate in San Francisco , early in October . He said Our industrial plant is built . The problem just now is whether under existing conditions it is not overbuilt . Our last frontier has long since been reached . There is practically no more free land . There is no safety valve in the Western prairies where we can go for a new start . . . . The mere building of more industrial plants , the organization of more corporations is as likely to be as much a danger as a help . . . . Our task now is not the discovery of natural resources or necessarily the production of more goods , it is the sober , less dramatic business of administering the resources and plants already in hand . . . establishing markets for surplus production , of meeting the problem of under consumption , distributing the wealth and products more equitably and adapting the economic organization to the service of the people . . . . There are many of these expressions with which no one would quarrel . But I do challenge the whole idea that we have ended the advance of America , that this country has reached the zenith of its power , the height of its development . That is the counsel of despair for the future of America . That is not the spirit by which we shall emerge from this depression . That is not the spirit that made this country . If it is true , every American must abandon the road of countless progress and unlimited opportunity . I deny that the promise of American life has been fulfilled , for that means we have begun the decline and fall . No nation can cease to move forward without degeneration of spirit . . . . If these measures , these promises , which I have discussed or these failures to disavow these projects this attitude of mind , mean anything , they mean the enormous expansion of the Federal Government they mean the growth of bureaucracy such as we have never seen in our history . No man who has not occupied my position in Washington can fully realize the constant battle which must be carried on against incompetence , corruption , tyranny of government expanded into business activities . If we first examine the effect on our form of government of such a program , we come at once to the effect of the most gigantic increase in expenditure ever known in history . That alone would break down the savings , the wages , the equality of opportunity among our people . These measures would transfer vast responsibilities to the Federal Government from the States , the local governments , and the individuals . But that is not all they would break down our form of government . Our legislative bodies cannot delegate their authority to any dictator , but without such delegation every member of these bodies is impelled in representation of the interest of his constituents constantly to seek privilege and demand service in the use of such agencies . Every time the Federal Government extends its arm , 531 Senators and Congressmen become actual boards of directors of that business . Capable men cannot be chosen by politics for all the various talents required . Even if they were supermen , if there were no politics in the selection of the Congress , if there were no constant pressure for this and for that , so large a number would be incapable as a board of directors of any institution . At once when these extensions take place by the Federal Government , the authority and responsibility of State governments and institutions are undermined . Every enterprise of private business is at once halted to know what Federal action is going to be . It destroys initiative and courage . We can do no better than quote that great statesman of labor , the late Samuel Gompers , in speaking of a similar situation It is a question of whether it shall be government ownership or private ownership under control . If I were a minority of one in this convention , I would want to cast my vote so that the men of labor shall not willingly enslave themselves to government in their industrial effort . We have heard a great deal in this campaign about reactionaries , conservatives , progressives , liberals , and radicals . I have not yet heard an attempt by any one of the orators who mouth these phrases to define the principles upon which they base these classifications . There is one thing I can say without any question of doubt that it , that the spirit of liberalism is to create free men it is not the regimentation of men . It is not the extension of bureaucracy . I have said in this city before now that you cannot extend the mastery of government over the daily life of a people without somewhere making it master of people s souls and thoughts . Expansion of government in business means that the government , in order to protect itself from the political consequences of its errors , is driven irresistibly without peace to greater and greater control of the Nation s press and platform . Free speech does not live many hours after free industry and free commerce die . It is a false liberalism that interprets itself into Government operation of business . Every step in that direction poisons the very roots of liberalism . It poisons political equality , free speech , free press , and equality of opportunity . It is the road not to liberty but to less liberty . True liberalism is found not I striving to spread bureaucracy , but in striving to set bounds to it . True liberalism seeks all legitimate freedom first in the confident belief that without such freedom the pursuit of other blessings is in vain . Liberalism is a force truly of the spirit proceeding from the deep realization that economic freedom cannot be sacrificed if political freedom is to be preserved . Even if the Government conduct of business could give us the maximum of efficiency instead of least efficiency , it would be purchased at the cost of freedom . It would increase rather than decrease abuse and corruption , stifle initiative and invention , undermine development of leadership , cripple mental and spiritual energies of our people , extinguish equality of opportunity , and dry up the spirit of liberty and progress . Men who are going about this country announcing that they are liberals because of their promises to extend the Government in business are not liberals they are reactionaries of the United States . And I do not wish to be misquoted or misunderstood . I do not mean that our Government is to part with one iota of its national resources without complete protection to the public interest . I have already stated that democracy must remain master in its own house . I have stated that abuse and wrongdoing must be punished and controlled . Nor do I wish to be misinterpreted as stating that the United States is a free for all and devil take the hindermost society . The very essence of equality of opportunity of our American system is that there shall be no monopoly or domination by any group or section in this country , whether it be business , sectional , or a group interest . On the contrary , our American system demands economic justice as well as political and social justice it is not a system of laissez faire . I am not setting up the contention that our American system is perfect . No human ideal has ever been perfectly attained , since humanity itself is not perfect . But the wisdom of our forefathers and the wisdom of the thirty men who have preceded me in this office hold to the conception that progress can be attained only as the sum of accomplishments of free individuals , and they have held unalterably to these principles . In the ebb and flow of economic life our people in times of prosperity and ease naturally tend to neglect the vigilance over their rights . Moreover , wrongdoing is obscured by apparent success in enterprise . Then insidious diseases and wrongdoings grow apace . But we have in the past seen in times of distress and difficulty that wrongdoing and weakness come to the surface , and our people , in their endeavors to correct these wrongs , are tempted to extremes which may destroy rather than build . It is men who do wrong , not our institutions . It is men who violate the laws and public rights . It is men , not institutions , who must be punished . In my acceptance speech four years ago at Palo Alto I stated that One of the oldest aspirations of the human race was the abolition of poverty . By poverty I mean the grinding by under nourishment , cold , ignorance , fear of old age to those who have the will to work . I stated that In America today we are nearer a final triumph over poverty than in any land . The poorhouse has vanished from among us we have not reached that goal , but given a chance to go forward , we shall , with the help of God , be in sight of the day when poverty will be banished from this Nation . My countrymen , the proposals of our opponents represent a profound change in American life less in concrete proposal , bad as that may be , than by implication and by evasion . Dominantly in their spirit they represent a radical departure from the foundations of 150 years , which have made this the greatest nation in the world . This election is not a mere shift from the ins to the outs . It means deciding the direction our Nation will take over a century to come . My conception of America is a land where men and women may walk in ordered liberty , where they may enjoy the advantages of wealth not concentrated in the hands of a few but diffused through the lives of all , where they build and safeguard their homes , give to their children full opportunities of American life , where every man shall be respected in the faith that his conscience and his heart direct him to follow , where people secure in their liberty shall have leisure and impulse to seek a fuller life . That leads to the release of the energies of men and women , to the wider vision and higher hope it leads to opportunity for greater and greater service not alone of man to man in our country but from our country to the world . It leads to health in body and a spirit unfettered , youthful , eager with a vision stretching beyond the farthest horizons will an open mind , sympathetic and generous . But that must be builded upon our experience with the past , upon the foundations , which have made our country great . It must be the product of our truly American system .<speech_sep>The Departments of Commerce and Labor are engaged in the usual monthly survey of business and unemployment and especially of the results obtained from the measures which have been in progress since the last of November , to reduce unemployment and the hardship following the dislocation from the stock exchange crash . The survey is not as yet complete . There are , however , certain conclusions that are evident . 1 . Unemployment amounting to distress is in the main concentrated in 12 States . The authorities in the remaining 36 States indicate only normal seasonal unemployment or that the minor abnormal unemployment is being rapidly absorbed . 2 . The low point of business and employment was the latter part of December and early January . Since that time employment has been slowly increasing and the situation is much better today than at that time . 3 . Nationwide response to the request for increased construction and improvement work by public authorities , railroads , utilities , and industries is having a most material effect . Construction contracts in these categories in January and February were from 40 percent to 45 percent higher than ever known in those months . The total construction work for 1930 seems assured to be larger than even 1929 . 4 . The undertakings to maintain wages have been held . 5 . The amount of unemployment is , in proportion to the number of workers , considerably less than one half probably only one third of that which resulted from the crashes of 1907 08 , and 1920 22 at this period of the situation . 6 . Measures taken to ameliorate interest rates have resulted in continuous decrease since December , and money is available at lower rates for business and commercial purposes . One result is an increasing volume of bond issues have been placed for public improvements . Available money for mortgage purposes of home building and agriculture has lagged behind other forms of credit . But a decrease in demands of policyholders for loans on the insurance companies and the action recently taken by the Federal Reserve System should result in increased supplies of credit , especially for residential building , which in turn has lagged behind other construction . 7 . All the evidences indicate that the worst effects of the crash upon employment will have been passed during the next 60 days with the amelioration of seasonal unemployment , the gaining strength of other forces , and the continued cooperation of the many agencies actively cooperating with the Government to restore business and to relieve distress .<speech_sep>AN EMERGENCY has developed in the last few days which it is my duty to lay before the Senate . The continued downward movement in the economic life of the country has been particularly accelerated during the past few days , and it relates in part definitely to the financial program of the Government . There can be no doubt that superimposed upon other causes the long continued delays in the passage of legislation providing for such reduction in expenses and such addition to revenues as would balance the budget , together with proposals of projects which would greatly increase governmental expenditures , have given rise to doubt and anxiety as to the ability of our Government to meet its responsibilities . These fears and doubts have been foolishly exaggerated in foreign countries . They know from bitter experience that the course of unbalanced budgets is the road of ruin . They do not realize that slow as our processes may be we are determined and have the resources to place the finances of the United States on an unassailable basis . The immediate result has been to create an entirely unjustified run upon the American dollar from foreign countries and within the past few days despite our national wealth and resources and our unparalleled gold reserves our dollar stands at a serious discount in the markets of the world for the first time in half a century . This can be and must be immediately corrected or the reaction upon our economic situation will be such as to cause great losses to our people and will still further retard recovery . Nor is the confusion in public mind and the rising feeling of doubt and fear confined to foreign countries . It reflects itself directly in diminished economic activity and increased unemployment within our own borders and among our own citizens . There is thus further stress upon already diminished and strained economic life of the country . No one has a more sympathetic realization than I of the difficulties and complexities of the problem with which the Congress is confronted . The decrease in revenues due to the depression by upwards of 1 , 700 million and the consequent necessity to reduce Government expenditures , the sacrifice such reduction calls for from many groups and sections , the further sacrifice called for in the distribution of the remaining burden by the imposition of new taxes , all constitute a problem which naturally arouses wide divergence of sectional interest and individual views . Yet if we are to secure a just distribution of these sacrifices in such fashion as to establish confidence in the integrity of the Government we must secure an adjustment of these views to quick and prompt national action , directed at one sole purpose , that is to unfetter the rehabilitation of industry , agriculture , and unemployment . The time has come when we must all make sacrifice of some parts of our particular views and bring these dangers and degenerations to halt by expeditious action . In the stress of this emergency I have conferred with members of both parties of the Senate as to methods by which the strains and stresses could be overcome and the gigantic resources and energies of our people released from the fetters in which they are held . I have felt in the stress of this emergency a grave responsibility rests upon me not only to present the situation to the Senate but to make suggestions as to the basis of adjustment between these views which I hope will lead to early action . And I am addressing myself to the Senate on this occasion as the major questions under consideration are now before this body . We have three major duties in legislation in order to accomplish our fundamental purposes . 1 . Drastic reduction of expenditures . 2 . Passage of adequate revenue legislation , the combination of which with reductions will unquestionably beyond all manner of doubt declare to the world the balancing of the Federal budget and the stabilizing of the American dollar . 3 . Passage of adequate relief legislation to assure the country against distress and to aid in employment pending the next session of Congress . It is essential that when we ask our citizens to undertake the burdens of increased taxation we must give to them evidence of reduction of every expenditure not absolutely vital to the immediate conduct of the Government . The executive budget of last December provided for a reduction of expenditures in the next fiscal year over the then estimated expenditures of the current year by about 370 million . I have recommended to the Congress from time to time the necessity for passage of legislation which would give authority for further important reductions in expenditures not possible for consideration by either the Executive or the committees of Congress without such legislation . An earnest nonpartisan effort was made to secure these purposes in a national economy bill in the House , but it largely failed . That subject is under review by the bipartisan committee appointed from the members of the Senate Appropriations Committee , and I am informed it has tentatively agreed upon a recommendation which would aggregate savings of 250 million together with a number of undetermined further possibilities . I am not informed as to details of these recommendations although I learn that my own suggestions in many instances have not been accepted . But I do know that the committee has made honest and earnest effort to reach a just reduction in expenditures , and I trust therefore that despite any of our individual views or the sacrifice of any group , that we can unite in support and expeditious adoption of the committee s conclusions . In addition to the economies which may be brought about through the economy bill , the direct reductions of the appropriations committees should increase this figure to at least 400 million not including certain postponements to later deficiency bills . As this sum forms the basis of calculations as to increased taxes necessary it is essential that , no matter what the details may be , that amount of reduction must be obtained or taxes must be increased to compensate . If this minimum of 400 million is attained by congressional action together with the 369 million effected through executive budget , except for amounts already budgeted for public works in aid to unemployment and increased costs of veterans , we will have reduced expenditures of this Government to the lowest point since 1916 . In the matter of tax legislation , we must face the plain and unpalatable fact that due to the degeneration in the economic situation during the past month the estimates of fertility of taxes which have been made from time to time based upon the then current prospects of business must be readjusted to take account of the decreasing business activity and shrinking values . The Finance Committee has been advised that the setbacks of the past month now make it evident that if we are to have absolute assurance of the needed income with breadth of base which would make a certainty of the collections we must face additional taxes to those now proposed by the Senate Finance Committee . I recognize the complaint that estimates of the taxes required and reductions of expenses needed have been repeatedly increased , but on the other hand it should be borne in mind that if tax and economy legislation recommended from time to time since last December had been promptly enacted there would have been less degeneration and stagnation in the country . But it is unprofitable to argue any such questions . We must face the situation as it exists today . In the course of the 6 months during which the revenue bill has been considered in the House and Senate practically every form of tax has been suggested at one time or another , many have found their way into the bill later to be rejected . The total amount Congress originally set out to obtain has been gradually whittled down either by actual reductions or degeneration of the situation while needs have increased . If we examine the major sources of possible increases in taxes now proposed and the nature of taxes already voted , it may well be that the income taxes have already been raised to the point of diminishing returns through avoidance which will ensue by the use of tax exempt securities and are already so high as to approach the danger point in retardation of enterprise . It is advisable that more relief should be given to earned incomes . Nor will further increase in income tax , even including the proposals of Senator Connally , 1 cover the gap in our revenues or provide against any failure to reduce expenses to the full amount I have stated . The Senate has already imposed a multitude of specific manufacturers excise taxes on special industries . Some of them appear discriminatory and uncertain in their productivity . I have not and do not favor a general sales tax . It has not been proposed by the Treasury . A sales tax is not , however , to be confused with an extension of the special manufacturers excise taxes to a general manufacturers excise tax with exemptions of food and clothing . This is an entirely different tax from a so called sales tax and cannot be pyramided . Even this general manufacturers excise tax has not been proposed by the Treasury , although at the time such a tax was unanimously recommended by the Ways and Means Committee of the House , representing both political parties and their leaders in the House of Representatives , the Secretary of the Treasury accepted it in the hope that immediate passage of the bill would result . In order , however , to solve our problem and give assurance to the country and the world of the impregnability of the American dollar and that we are ready to meet our emergencies at any sacrifice , I have now come to favor an extension for a limited period of the many special excise taxes to a more general manufacturers excise tax and will support the Congress if it should be adopted . Whether this be the course or not some further emergency tax sources should be incorporated in the pending bill . 1 On May 16 , 1932 , Senator Tom Connally o 1114 Texas offered an amendment to the revenue bill providing for income taxes ranging up to 55 percent in the highest bracket . The Senate rejected the amendment on May 17 . Our third problem is that of relief . The sharp degeneration has its many reflexes in distress and hardship upon our people . I hold that the maintenance of the sense of individual and personal responsibility of men to their neighbors and the proper separation of functions of the Federal and local governments requires the maintenance of the fundamental principle that the obligation of distress rests upon the individuals , upon the communities and upon the States . In order , however , that there may be no failure on the part of any State to meets its obligation in this direction I have , after consultation with some of the party leaders on both sides , favored authorization to the Reconstruction Finance Corporation to loan up to 300 million to State governments where they are unable to finance themselves in provision of relief to distress . Such loans should be made by purchase of State bonds by the Corporation but where States are unable to issue bonds then loans should be made upon application of State authorities , and if they are not regularized by the issuance of bonds within a period of 12 to 18 months , they should become a charge upon the Federal aid funds to which such States may be entitled . In order to aid unemployment and to avoid wasteful expansion of public works I have favored an authority to the Reconstruction Corporation to increase its issues of its securities to the maximum of 3 billion in order that it may extend its services both in aid to employment and agriculture on a wide scale . Under the methods proposed the Corporation is to be a authorized to buy bonds from political subdivisions or public bodies to aid in construction of income producing or self liquidating projects b to make loans to established enterprise upon adequate security , for advancement of sound projects that will increase employment but safeguarded by requirement that some portion of outside capital is also provided c to divert a portion of the unexpended authorizations of agricultural loans through the Secretary of Agriculture to finance exports of agricultural products d to make loans to institutions upon security of agricultural commodities to assure the carrying of normal stocks of these commodities and thus by stabilizing their loan value to steady their price levels e to make loans to the Federal Farm Board to enable extension of finance of farm cooperatives . I have not been able to favor the expansion of public works beyond the program already proposed in the budget . I have for many years advocated speeding up of public works as relief to unemployment in times of depression . Since the beginning of this depression , in consonance with this view , the Federal Government will have expended in excess of 1 , 500 million in construction and maintenance of one kind or another as against a normal program of perhaps 650 million for a similar period . The budget for next year calls for over 550 million or double our usual outlay . If we shall now increase these programs we shall need instantly to increase taxes still further . We have already forced every project which we have justification with any regard to the taxpayer and the avoidance Of sheer waste . It is not my desire on this occasion to argue the comparative merits of extending such a program and that of financing an even larger program of employment on productive works through the Reconstruction Finance Corporation . We are indeed all desirous of serving our fellow citizens who are in difficulty and we must serve them in such a fashion that we do not increase the ranks of unemployed . I may emphasize that this alternative program avoids drain upon the taxpayer , and above all if we are to balance our budget and balance it in such fashion that our people and the world may know it is balanced , we cannot make further appropriations in any direction beyond the amounts now before the Congress . I am confident that if the Congress could find in these suggestions which come from members of both parties a ground for adjustment of legislation on those dominant particulars and could bring it into immediate action it would yield not only relief to the country but would reestablish that confidence which we so sorely need . The natural wealth of this country is unimpaired , and the inherent abilities of our people to meet their problems are being restrained by failure of the Government to act . Time is of the essence . Every day s delay makes new wounds and extends them . I come before you in sympathy with the difficulties which the problem presents and in a sincere spirit of helpfulness . I ask of you to accept such a basis of practical adjustment essential to the welfare of our people . In your hands at this moment is the answer to the question whether democracy has the capacity to act speedily enough to save itself in emergency . The Nation urgently needs unity . It needs solidarity before the world in demonstrating that America has the courage to look its difficulties in the face and the capacity and resolution to meet them .<speech_sep>In these closing hours of the campaign I am conscious that the American people are summing up in their minds the candidates statements , the issues , weighing the expositions of party policy , making their appraisals of party measures and of men , and thus preparing themselves individually for their final personal decision to be expressed by their ballots at the polls next Tuesday . I stated a few days ago that the most important issue before the American people at this moment is to overcome this crisis . What our people need is the restoration of their normal jobs and the recovery of agricultural prices and of business . They need help in the meantime to tide them over their difficulties in order that they may not suffer privation or lose their farms and homes . There are other measures which concern the more distant future . We must not lose sight of them . But the great balance in which to weigh the two great political parties today is in their attitude toward this immediate problem , because in this attitude lies their philosophy of government , their ability to penetrate into causes , their capacity to meet emergency and to translate measures into action . And in these balances should also be weighed the question of honesty in presentation to the people of the facts so that they may formulate a proper judgment . There is beyond this the common , everyday fact as to whether the present administration measures and policies now in action are accomplishing the purposes for which they were set out and therefore deserve ratification and retention by the people . There is also revealed in this accomplishment what we may hope for in the way of performance for the future . Many of our hopes for the long view development of our Nation have been interrupted by the necessity to devote our concentrated attention to the protection of the American people from the cataclysm which has swept over the world as the result of the aftermath of the World War . Our opponents have endeavored to build a fantastic fiction as to the causes of these events in the last 3 years in order that they might blame the Republican Party for all the distress and disasters which have happened , not only in our country but in the rest of the world , and thus resort to the oldest trick of politics by stimulating a protest vote . That is playing politics with human misery , but in the pursuit of this misrepresentation they have demonstrated a total lack of understanding of the real situation with which the Government must deal if we are ever to find our way out of this depression . This narrowness of vision , this incapacity to reach to the heart of things , is a complete demonstration of their unfitness for the still gigantic task of leading the Nation back to normal life and the resumption of its forward march of progress . They have deliberately avoided and decried the accumulation of strains which grew out of the Great War they even ignore that such a war took place . They ignore the piling up of our national debt and the debts among combatant nations greater than the whole wealth of the United States . They ignore the loss of the productive skill and intelligence of millions in Europe , blotted out by battle , disease , and starvation . They ignore the poison springs of political instability which lay in the treaties that closed the war , the fears and hates that have held armaments to double those before that time . They ignore the new nationalism of a score of small nations sprung from the war with all their own tariff walls and disturbances to old channels of trade . They ignore the ruinous government policies which fallaciously sought to build back to prosperity the impoverished countries of Europe by enlarged borrowing , by subsidizing industry and employment with taxes that sapped the savings upon which industry must be rejuvenated and commerce solidly built . Under these strains the financial systems of many foreign countries crashed one after another . These blows struck at us through decreased world consumption of goods . If we look back over the distress of these years we find that three quarters of the population of the globe has suffered from the flames of revolution many nations were subject to constant change and vacillation others resorted to dictatorships and tyranny in desperate attempts to maintain some sort of social order . I ask you to compare that with the condition of the United States . We are part of a world , the disturbance of whose remotest population affects our own financial system , our markets , our employment , and the prices of our farm products . And we have many problems of our own growing out of the Great War the inflation of values during the war and the stupendous increase of our debt , the failure of foreign countries to respond to their debt obligations to us . Finally , with the desperate crisis abroad , the whole world scrambled to convert their property into gold and thus withdrew from us suddenly over 2 , 400 million of exchange and gold . These fears spreading to our own citizens caused them to withdraw 1 , 600 million in currency from circulation . The effect of this was to withdraw vast sums of gold from our own use , as we must protect the gold convertibility of our currency , with further repercussions of credit stringency , unemployment , and dropping prices . Yet we have protected our dollar and made it ring true on every counter in the world . Our own economists overlooked one great fundamental factor that while our own people consume 90 percent of their production , yet no one calculated the effect of worldwide fear upon our credit system and on the confidence of the Nation which thereby suddenly undermined our industry and commerce . In the face of these gigantic , appalling worldwide forces our opponents set up the Hawley Smoot tariff bill changing as it did the tariffs on less than one sixth of our own imports , one one hundredth of the world s imports , and introduced long after the collapse started as the cause of all this world catastrophe . What an unspeakable travesty upon reason this explanation is Suppose that we had never had the Hawley Smoot tariff bill . Do you think for one moment that this crushing collapse in the structure of the world , these revolutions , these perils to civilization would not have happened and would not have reached into the United States And yet , in order to make a political campaign by which they can play upon discontent so that they could hope to create a protest vote , they are compelled to set up this travesty of argument . By this class appeal to the negative impulses of men they endeavor to lead them away from discussion of the actual measures which have been taken to meet the actual facts of the world situation , and to follow a mirage of miscellaneous vague hopes . They seek to lead them away from their realization that the restoration now begun should not be interrupted . I would recall to you the unprecedented measures which we have introduced by which we have brought the full reserve powers of the Federal Government into action to save community values and protect every family and fireside so far as it was humanly possible from deterioration . We have proved time and again in our history in actual war the altruism and patriotism of our people , the solidarity of their action toward a common objective . But in this war against the invisible forces , we have seen groups of men attempting to profiteer from the miseries of our people , both to increase their own fortunes and to increase their political strength . We have seen the very measures we have taken for defense of our people and reconstruction of recovery subjected to the cheapest of political misrepresentation . We have seen attempts of these same groups even in this national emergency to bring forth a philosophy of government which would destroy the whole American system on which we have builded the greatest Nation of a century and a half . Indeed , this is the same philosophy of government which has poisoned all Europe . They have been the fumes of the witch s caldron which boiled in Russia and in its attenuated flavor spread over half of Europe , and would by many be introduced into the United States in an attempt to secure votes through protest of discontent against emergency conditions . We have had to meet such handicaps from our opponents both while meeting the first emergency which endangered the Nation and in the building of employment and agriculture . I have enumerated at various times in this campaign the measures adopted by the Republican administration to meet this emergency . I have enumerated on several occasions our long view policies to cement that recovery and to stimulate progress in our country for the future . I will take your time for just a moment to refresh your minds on the unprecedented measures adopted from the beginning of this depression . I will also refresh your minds on the measures , lack of measures , or destructive measures proposed by our opponents . 1 . The first of our measures , which subsequently proved of great emergency service , was the revision of the tariff . By this act we gave protection to our agriculture from a world demoralization which would have been infinitely worse than anything we have suffered , and we prevented unemployment of millions of workmen . 2 . We have secured extension of authority to the Tariff Commission by which the adjustments can be made to correct inequities in the tariff , and to make changes to meet economic tides and emergencies , thereby avoiding the national disturbance of general revision of the tariff with all its greed and logrolling . That authority becomes of vital importance today in the face of depreciated currencies abroad . 3 . At the outset of the depression we brought about an understanding between employers and employees that wages should be maintained . They were maintained until the cost of living had decreased and the profits had practically vanished . They are now the highest real wages in the world . With the concurrent agreement of labor leaders at that time to minimize strikes , we have had a degree of social stability hitherto unknown in the history of any depression in our country . We have not once in this depression had Federal troops under arms to quell conflicts which is the first time in 15 depressions over a century . I cannot pay too high a tribute to the leaders of labor , leaders of industry , and our people in general , for their intelligent self control and their devotion to the cause of order in time of stress . Last night one of the eminent orators of the Democratic Party began his speech in New York by accusing the Republican Party of waging a campaign of fear , declaring that the success of the Republican Party at the polls next Tuesday might be followed by mob disturbances to public order . How does the gentleman explain the last 3 years of unparalleled social calm Does he mean to charge that this magnificent body of self disciplined citizens is suddenly overnight to become a mob Or does he mean to imply that his party is the party of the mob In either event does he mean that we must accept the threat of mob rule in the United States as a guide to our conduct on election day Thank God , we still have some officials in Washington that can hold out against a mob . 4 . An agreement to a spread of work where employers were compelled to reduce production was brought about in order that none might be deprived of all their living and all might participate in the existing jobs and thus give real aid to millions of families . There can be no greater service given by an industry to employees in these times . 5 . We have mobilized throughout the country private charity and local and State support for the care of distress under which our women and men have given such devoted service that the health of our country has actually improved . 6 . By the expansion of State , municipal , and private construction work as an aid to employment , and by the development of an enlarged program of Federal construction which has been maintained at the rate of 600 million a year throughout the depression , we have given support to hundreds of thousands of families . 7 . By the negotiation of the German moratorium and the standstill agreements upon external debts of that country , we saved their people from a collapse that would have set a prairie fire and possibly have involved the whole of our civilization . 8 . We created the National Credit Association by cooperation of the bankers of the country , with a capital of 500 million which prevented the failure of a thousand banks with all the tragedies to their depositors and their borrowers . 9 . By drastic reduction in the ordinary operating expenses of the Federal Government , together with the increasing of the revenues in the year 1932 , we contributed to balancing the Federal budget and thus held impregnable the credit of the United States . 10 . We created the Reconstruction Finance Corporation , originally with 2 billion of resources , in order that , having maintained national credit , we should thrust the full resources of public credit behind private credit of the country and thus reestablish and maintain private enterprise in an unassailable position that with this backing of the Federal credit , acting through existing institutions , we might protect depositors in savings banks , insurance policyholders , both lenders and borrowers in building and loan associations through banking institutions expand the funds available for loans to merchants , manufacturers , farmers , and marketing associations that we should protect the railways from receiverships in order that in turn railway securities in the great fiduciary institutions such as our insurance companies and savings banks might be protected and a score of millions saved from distress . 11 . In addition to strengthening the capital of the Federal land banks by 125 million we have , through the Reconstruction Corporation , made large loans to mortgage associations for the same purpose , and lately we have organized all lending agencies into cooperative action to give the farmer who wants to make a fight for his home a chance to hold it from foreclosure . 12 . We extended authorities under the Federal Reserve Act to protect beyond all question the gold standard of the United States and at the same time expand the credit in counteraction to the strangulation due to hoarding and foreign withdrawals of gold . 13 . We created the home loan discount banks with direct and indirect resources of several hundred millions , also acting through existing institutions in such fashion as to mobilize the resources of building and loan associations and savings banks and other institutions , furnishing to them cheaper and longer term capital , to give to them the ability to save homes from foreclosure , to furnish credit to create new homes , and expand employment . 14 . We secured further authorities to the Reconstruction Corporation to assist in the earlier liquidation of deposits in closed banks in order that we might relieve distress to millions of depositors . Through Democratic opposition we failed to secure authority from Congress to carry this on a scale the country so sorely needs today . 15 . We secured increased authorities to the Reconstruction Corporation to loan up to 300 million to the States whose resources had been exhausted , to enable them to extend full relief to distress , and to prevent any hunger and cold in the United States over this winter . 16 . We increased the resources to the Reconstruction Corporation by a further 1 , 500 million for the undertaking of great public works which otherwise would have been delayed awaiting finance , due to the stringency of credit . These works are of a character which by their own earnings will enable disposal of the repayment of these loans without charge upon the taxpayer . 17 . We have erected a new system of agricultural credit banks with indirect resources of 300 million to reinforce the work of the intermediate credit banks and our other financing institutions in the financing of production and livestock loans to farmers . Any farmer now with sound security may go to them for aid . 18 . We have extended the authority to the Reconstruction Corporation to make loans for financing the normal movement of agricultural commodities to markets both at home and abroad . 19 . We have systematically mobilized banking and industry and business of the country with the cooperation of labor and agricultural leaders to attack the depression on every front . They have sought out and given assurance of credits to business and industry where employment would be increased , and have cooperated in relief of agricultural mortgage pressures . 20 . We have developed , together with European nations , a worldwide economic conference with view to relieving pressure upon us from foreign countries , to increase their stability , to deal with the problems of silver , and to prevent recurrence of these calamities if it can be humanly done . 21 . We have given American leadership in development of drastic reductions of armament in order to reduce our own expenditures by 200 million a year and to increase the financial stability of foreign nations and , above all , to relieve the world of fear and political friction . These are a part not all of the great and effective weapons with which we have fought the battle that has saved the American people from disaster and chaos . These weapons are still in action and advancing along the whole front to the restoration of recovery . I would call your attention to certain economic and social backgrounds of all these instrumentalities , that they are so constructed as to act through existing agencies , to avoid competition of the Government with private enterprise and responsibilities . Their essence has been that of cooperation , so created that with the passage of this emergency they can be withdrawn , leaving our economic structure in its full strength and vitality . They represent the full use of the Federal power in time of emergency to protect the people . That is the reason for the social calm in the United States as contrasted with the riots in nearly every foreign country . I recently enumerated at Detroit some of the evidences of recuperation of the country under these measures in so short a period as 4 months since the destruction of public confidence by the Democratic House of Representatives ceased . I do not wish to weary you with statistics , but to show the validity of that progress I may mention that in employment over a million men have now returned to work during these 4 months . This is the estimate of our Government departments . The estimate of our employers places the number at a million and a half . Certainly we are now gaining a half million a month . Last night I heard an evidence an evidence of recuperation that is going on . The city of Louis had made application for a large sum from the Reconstruction Corporation with which to carry their destitute over the winter . I was informed yesterday that they asked that the application for that loan be cancelled as it was no longer required . Production of boots and shoes amounted to 34 million pairs in October , the highest output for any month in the year and higher than the same month of the previous year . Hoarded currency continues to return imports of gold withdrawn by frightened European holders have continued to increase deposits of banks continue to show steady expansion . In 4 months they have increased by nearly a billion dollars . This is money being put to work and an evidence of renewed confidence . A further indication of the upward movement of industry lies in the increased demand for electrical power , which has increased by over 8 percent in the last 4 months . Every business index shows some progress somewhere in the Nation . I do not want to say it in criticism , for there is no one more devoted to our form of government than myself , but there is one unfortunate incident in our system , and that is that a change of parties in power at the national election may come at a difficult moment . A change at this election must mean 4 whole months in which there can be no definition of national policy , during which time not only the commander of the forces in battle for economic recovery must be changed but the subordinate commanders as well . Following the period of delay and uncertainty , the opposition party will , as it has announced , call a special session of Congress in order to validate their promises and their new deal . And whether these new policies be for better or worse , at least a year must elapse before they can emerge into action . The battle must stagnate at a time of its height , and recovery must inevitably be delayed . And now in contrast with this constructive program of the Republican Party and this administration , I wish to develop for you the Democratic program to meet this depression as far as we have been able to find any definition to it . I would again call your attention to the fact that with the Democratic victory in congressional elections of 1930 , their leaders promised to produce a program which would redeem this country from the depression . No such program was produced until we were well into the winter of 1932 . Their program as developed under the leadership of Garner by the Democratic House of Representatives was 1 . They passed the Collier bill , providing for destruction of the Tariff Commission by reducing it again to a mere statistical body controlled by the Congress . Had they succeeded , the relief which you so sorely require from competition with countries of depreciated currencies would today be impossible . 2 . They attempted to instruct me by legislation to call an international conference through which the aid of foreign nations would be requested to lower American tariffs , by which the independence of the United States in control of its domestic policies was to be placed in the hands of an international body . 3 . They passed an act instructing me to negotiate reciprocal the result of which could only be to deprive some locality of its protection for the benefit of another , and by which the only sible agreements would involve the reduction of farm tariffs in to build up markets for other goods . I might further suggest that two largest export commodities in the country are in the hands of a gentleman who will control the next Congress . 4 . They passed an omnibus pension bill with unworthy payments as an indication of their economical temper . 5 . They passed an inadequate patchwork revenue bill , the injustices of which to different industries and groups must yet be remedied . 6 . They passed Indian claims bills to reopen settlements 75 years old in order to favor certain localities at the expense of the Public Treasury 7 . They passed a bill instructing the Federal Reserve System and the Treasury to fix prices at averages prevailing during the years 1921 to 1929 by constantly shifting the volume of currency and credit and thus creation of every uncertainty to business and industry by a rubber dollar . This bill was stopped , but it has not been removed from their political calendar . 8 . They defeated a large part of the national economy measure proposed by the administration by their refusal to accept our recommendation , by reduction of ordinary expenditures from 250 million to less than 50 million , a part of which we subsequently rescued in the Senate . 9 . They passed the Garner Rainey pork barrel bill increasing expenditures by 1 , 200 million for unnecessary nonproductive public works , purely for the benefit of favored localities . We stopped this bill , but it is still on their political calendar . 10 . They passed the cash prepayment of the bonus calling for immediate expenditure of 2 , 300 million and for actual increase in liabilities of the Federal Government over the original act by 1 , 300 million . We stopped this bill , but it is still on their political calendar . 11 . They passed the provision for the issuance of over 2 , 200 million of greenback currency , a reversion to vicious practices already demonstrated in the last hundred years as the most destructive to labor , agriculture , and business . We stopped this bill and even as late as last night the Democratic candidate failed to frankly disavow it . 12 . They passed the Rainey bill providing for direct personal banking for every conceivable purpose on every conceivable security to everyone who wants money , and thus the most destructive entry of the Government into private business in a fashion that violates every principle of our Nation . I vetoed this bill , but Garner still advocates it , and it has not been removed from their political calendar . 13 . They injected an expenditure of 322 million for entirely unnecessary purposes in time of great emergency . The Democratic candidate complains daily that we do not spend this money fast enough . It is part of his economic program . 14 . The Congress passed proper authority to the Executive for reorganization and elimination of useless Government commissions and bureaus , but by refusing my recommendations for immediate action they destroyed its usefulness for a long time to come and probably destroyed its consummation . 15 . The Democratic candidate eloquently urges the balancing of the budget , but nowhere disavows these gigantic raids on the Treasury , under which no budget can ever be balanced . Thus far I have recounted to you the program of the Democratic House under the leadership of Garner , whose policies have received commendation from the Democratic convention which ratified them by nominating him Vice President . 16 . The Democratic candidate adds to this program the proposal to plant a billion trees and thereby immediately employ a million men , but the Secretary of Agriculture has shown that the trees available to plant will give them a total of less than 3 days work . 17 . The Democratic candidate promises to relieve agriculture with a 6 point program which amounts to envisaging to distressed farmers a great structure of agricultural relief , but he has refused to submit it to debate . He has disclosed no details of the plan except six methods by which he can escape from the promise . 18 . The candidate has promised the immediate inauguration of a program of self liquidating public works , such as utilization of our water resources , flood control , and land reclamation , to provide employment for all surplus labor at all times . That is contained in a letter addressed to all the unemployed in the United States which has had enormous circulation . To employ the whole of the unemployed in the United States would exceed in cost 9 billion a year . These works are unavailable . If the works were there , the cost would destroy the credit of the Government , deprive vast numbers of the men now working of their jobs , and thus destroy the remedy itself . This fantasy is a cruel promise to these suffering men and women that they will be given jobs by the Government which no government could fulfill . 19 . The Democratic Party makes its contribution to the emergency by proposing to reduce the tariff to a competitive tariff for revenue . Their candidate states that he supports this promise 100 percent . A competitive tariff today would be ruinous to American agriculture and industry . These are the only reliefs to this emergency that I can find in the whole Democratic program . They are mostly destructive . I have given you some of the items of the Republican program . I submit to you this collection of 19 items which have been and are proposed to the American people . Governor Roosevelt in his address of last night stated I have been scrupulously careful to make no idle promises , to raise no false hopes . In Louis last night , I gave a list of about a dozen unclarified promises , some of which certainly raise high hopes . Our opponents have devoted themselves in the last few weeks to the idea that the Republican Party is endeavoring to scare the American people . I have never found them very easily scared and would not believe the American people could be . The American people are not being disturbed by my reassurances from the record that men are being restored to employment at the rate of 500 , 000 a month as the result of great programs and policies inaugurated by this administration . What is disturbing the American people is the failure of the Democratic candidate to show any satisfaction in this , and his entire lack of assurance that these measures will be carried forward . Furthermore , they find a total absence of constructive proposals from the Democratic side for dealing with this emergency . They are confused by indefinite promises as to the future . They are dismayed by the measures proposed by the last Democratic House of Representatives which at no time have been disavowed by the candidate and would destroy the very foundations of the Republic . They resent appeals to protest on the basis of personal misfortune the causes of which have been so brazenly misstated . They are asking what the support of extreme radicals means to our American institutions . They wonder if the divergent parts in the Democratic Party , the sectional elements and political elements of which it consists , do not spell a repetition of the quarrels and lack of confidence in their candidate so evident before their convention , and thus an earnest of their own incapacity for united national action . One issue of this campaign has become of more than normal importance , and I wish to speak on that question that is , the maintenance of our protective tariff . These States are positively dependent upon the maintenance of protective tariffs as a measure of recovery from this depression . And the protective tariff is more in danger at this moment than at any time in recent history first because our opponents propose to reduce this tariff to the basis of competitive tariff for revenue which means competition in the American market by the lower paid labor , lowered standards of living , and the cheapest lands in any part of the world . But beyond this the collapse of 30 nations unable to stand the accumulated strains growing out of the World War has brought about a depreciation of their currencies all the way from 10 to 50 percent . The result has been a further decrease in their wages , their prices and standards of living as compared to ours . Breaches are being made daily in your farm tariff walls . I wished to make a public survey into the actual purchasing power as a consequence of wages in a number of countries to determine from their wages the amount of bread and butter which could be purchased at retail with a week s wages . I gave out those figures 4 years ago , and I gave them out several days ago . They show that in the United States nearly every group of labor can purchase somewhere between 900 and 1 , 000 pounds of bread and butter from their weekly wage . They showed 4 years ago that our nearest competitor , Japan , delivering goods here , could purchase there all the way from 600 to 750 . They showed several days ago that this nation could only buy 100 to 159 pounds . That is the difference in wages . And in the face of this , our Democratic opponents propose to reduce our tariffs . They propose to do this in violation of their historic duty and in order to appeal to other sections of the United States . Their candidate has referred to our tariff as exorbitant and a ghastly jest . We must bear in mind that excepting wheat , 99 percent of our agricultural products in this and neighboring States are consumed within the borders of the United States , and the fate of American agriculture lies in holding the market within the boundaries of the United States . I could give you a few indications in actual effect of the present situation other than those I stated at Des Moines , Indianapolis , Springfield . I would point out that butter , the indicator in dairy products , sells in New York at 21 cents , and yet , except for the tariff wall , it would be sold from New Zealand and Europe for 16 cents . And I would point out another exhibit Flax is 72 cents north of the Canadian border and 1 . 08 south of that boundary owing to the protective tariff . These prices are depressingly low , but they actually could be lower . If this tariff were taken down , some 4 million acres , built up under the protective tariff , must go into other products , the competition of which will lower prices in every other commodity . Another industry to which Governor Roosevelt has given especial attention is sugar , as to which his promises would put another 750 , 000 acres into competition with other products . One of the reasons why agriculture has not made progress as rapidly in increased prices in the last 4 months comparable with the increased employment of men is this increasing competition from depreciated currency countries . This indeed gives me the greatest concern . Fortunately , the Republican administration has been able to prevent the destruction of the flexible authorities of the Tariff Commission through which alone these breaches in the tariff wall might be repaired . The Democratic candidate , the Democratic House of Representatives , and the Democratic Party in its platform promise consistently to destroy this authority of the Tariff Commission , and I ask Can you look to these men to repair these breaches in the tariff wall when they propose to tear down the walls themselves In a speech last night the Democratic candidate stated that the Tariff Commission during 2 long years , has investigated duties on only 73 commodities out of many thousands . Again he has been misinformed and is broadcasting misinformation to the American people . The Tariff Commission has considered over 250 items instead of the 73 he mentions . A great number of these items , when they appeared for consideration , were found to have no basis for action . They were withdrawn by the applicants upon a showing of the facts . But a greater misrepresentation lies in the fact that except for the very large task that I have recently given the Commission that is , to reconsider the tariffs as affected by depreciated currencies owing to the collapse of foreign nations its docket is practically clear . That means that this tribunal , which Governor Roosevelt says he will destroy , has attended to practically every tariff application presented by American citizens . If there were a greater number of items which needed change , is it not obvious that the need for this change would have been manifest , because the enterprising American citizen would long since have brought it to this tribunal for immediate adjustment Beyond the possibilities of adjustment by the Tariff Commission , we will widen the protective tariff by legislation if necessary to protect agriculture . Our oils and fats are suffering , entirely unnecessarily , from foreign imports of these commodities . The American market should be and must be reserved for the American farmer at all times whether emergency times or normal times . Governor Roosevelt in his address last night also stated I have been scrupulously careful to engage in no personalities , no unfair innuendoes , no baseless charges against the President of the United States . I would like to have someone else answer this , but it appears that I am the one to carry the answer across to the American people . I would recommend that anyone interested in this statement should read Governor Roosevelt s speeches from the beginning of this campaign . I have been compelled to take the unprecedented action of calling attention to a few of them . I have been also compelled to frequently call attention to statements being put out through the Democratic National Committee and their agencies which amount to positive calumnies . In no case has the Democratic candidate disavowed this action of his official committee or agencies . He has naturally profited by his silence . I have been informed in this State that someone is endeavoring to picture me as having voted in a foreign country as an indication that I am not a citizen of the United States . I know it is directed from the activities of the Democratic local committees . But why answer those things That picture is taken from the tax rolls of a foreign country where I at one time rented a house , and where there is a tax on every item of rent and where the rolls are made up from the tax rolls where I never voted or had a right to vote . This has been privately and publicly denounced by the Secretary of State over the last 8 years . I have just heard of another of these actions which took place yesterday in the State of Ohio the circulation of thousands of handbills stating that the Farm Board spends 5 million annually in salaries and has a fund of 250 , 000 for traveling expenses . This statement is untrue . There follows a long list of salaries purported to be paid by the Farm Board . It states , incidentally , that Roosevelt will abolish the Farm Board . If that be true but I do not believe it is true that will be of interest to the 2 million members of farm cooperatives in the United States and especially in a great part of the Northwest . As to the first point , the administrative expenditures of the Board are less than 900 , 000 per annum , and I would call attention to the fact that the members of the Farm Board receive about 10 , 000 a year . The salaries referred to in this circular do not refer largely to the employees of the Farm Board . Many are exaggerated , but the great bulk of them are officials employed by farmer owned , farmer controlled and farmer managed cooperatives because they have sought for the highest skill in the marketing of their products . The Farm Board has no control of these salaries . They are paid at the will of the American farmer and his organizations . The organization you have built up in this State and the salaries are enumerated here as a matter of personal defamation of myself . But the only point of importance for me to make now is that this is typical of stories being spread through the Nation with a view to misleading the people . I regret that I have to refer to them . They ought to be omitted from a political discussion . Throughout the difficulties of the last 2 years there have stood out in high relief the courage and fortitude of the American people . Yet , steadfast and brave as have been our men in the face of suffering and disaster , our women have been braver and more steadfast . Upon them the rigors of the world depression , as did the rigors of the World War , have borne most heavily . Untold anxiety , self denial , and drudgery have been their lot , that their loved ones might be assured of that care in mind and body that would equip them to meet the problems of the future . That the health of our people , both infants and adults , as evidenced by vital statistics , is now at its highest point is a notable tribute to the loving care and devotion of the women of the United States . Today their hearts are gladdened by a well founded hope of an early return to normal living conditions in our country . They must not be disappointed . In the long dark days of recent months these women , bowed with the burden of their own troubles , have not been too preoccupied to send me many messages of sympathy and encouragement . Unmoved either by blind resentment or by cruel calumny , they have done much to sustain my belief in the justice as well as the courage of my countrymen . Whatever fortune may have in store for me during the remaining years of my life , my heart will ever be filled with gratitude to the women of America for the understanding , the faith , and the cooperation which they have given me without stint during all of my years of public service . And not only in the homes of our country have women borne their full share of the burdens of the day . More and more in the changing conditions of modern life women have had to take their places side by side with men in factories , in business , in professional , and in political life . Even before their enfranchisement , President Theodore Roosevelt realized the need for women in government when he appointed a woman to head his newly created Children s Bureau in the Department of Labor , and that office has always been held by a woman . Many women are now holding posts of grave responsibility in city and county and State and Nation , and their number will be greatly increased . A step forward has been taken in the last year . The first woman to represent the Government of the United States in a great international conference is Miss Mary Woolley , sent by me as a member of the American delegation to the Disarmament Conference at Geneva . Hers was a most distinguished service . I have appointed an imposing list of women to public duties , and they have proved to have the highest sense of service and the highest kind of ability . Since the women of America attained the vote they have naturally forced certain questions into wider attention of the Nation . Education , home protection , and child welfare are as thoroughly bound up in the politics of the Nation as any other issues as a result of the enfranchisement of women . I have observed in public discussions in this campaign that women frequently take a longer view of national life than do a great many men . That is natural with women . They are intensely concerned with the policies which guarantee open equality of opportunity for the future of their boys and girls . It is a comfort to find them familiar with the measures I have presented to add to this security , and they are also familiar with the lack of response with which the Democratic House met these measures . I have long experienced their courageous and tenacious abilities in organization for public purposes . During the Food Administration , it was my pleasure to cooperate with the women , and it was my first opportunity to see the women who organized a nation for saving that our soldiers and allies might be fed . Soon after , it was with the women that I organized the measures to save the lives of 10 million European children . Soon after , it was with the women that I organized the Better Homes movement . A few years ago , when I began to organize the White House Conference on Child Health and Protection , I discovered that the great majority fitted for leadership in that work , both by skill and experience , were women . Again , when I organized the Conference on Home Building and Home Ownership and it was necessary to create research committees to present conclusions to the Conference , I found the skill and spirit with which to carry on the special work largely among women in order to get a proper perspective on the subjects because they were the persons in the community that had the experience to do it . Both these conferences brought high results in the advancement of public thought . They are already ringing through our national life in concrete public action . I have come to know the great abilities of our womanhood for cooperative action . They never cease nor become discouraged until success is attained . Of the great problems which demand safeguard probably none arises in higher value than that of preventing wars . This is a primary necessity to the future of the Nation . We cannot , as a people , run the risk of having our whole civilization degenerated and torn apart by such grim recurrences . There is a fundamental source for prevention which has been too much overlooked in this campaign . No one can deny the fact that the depression would never have taken place had it not been for the destructive forces loosened by the Great War . If we are to ensure that our country shall not be racked and endangered by recurrence of such calamities , the first measure for safety is that we should have peace in the world . We have a vital part to play in the setup of machinery to replace war and force with the peaceful settlement of controversies between the nations . We properly refuse to entangle ourselves in age old controversies in other parts of the world . Our face is turned forward , not backward . We have taken the position that we will not participate in trying to compel people to engage in the settlement of controversies by the use of force . The Kellogg Pact has been advanced by this administration to a point now accepted by the world as of far greater potency than was even contemplated at the time of its inauguration . Under the policies we have advanced , we have definitely secured that the public opinion of the world will be mobilized and concentrated against those who violate that pact . The whole history of this beautiful western country constitutes a monument to the heroism of American women and that pioneer spirit which bore so large a part in the development of the farms and firesides that now cover the western plains has come to its fullest expression during these later years in the assumption by women of a full measure of political responsibility as American citizens . My deepest appreciation is given to the army of women who have borne so valiant a part in this campaign . Their lofty conception of governmental affairs and their keen understanding of political parties and issues have given a new meaning to the history of American progress . In these closing hours , I am realizing that I have been drawn more deeply into this campaign than most Presidents . The emergencies with which we have been dealing during the past 30 years have called upon me for such continued and concentrated attention at the Capital of the Nation they have been so complicated and technical they have required such imperative and instant action , that when this campaign began I was forced to the realization that few other responsible officials of the Government held the full knowledge of all the ramifications of a program which was not yet fully understood by the country . I have felt that the President of the United States , constantly reviewing the history of our many struggles , knowing the character of our people , should never flinch in confidence in the future . I deemed it due to you and to the common cause we serve to bring to you the direct story of the endeavors that have been undertaken for the common good in these past years . In the past month I have received many thousands of communications from our people . I wish to express to you and to them the comfort I have had in the realization they have given to me that their concern has traveled with mine as we have discussed together the grave issues of the period . In the solemn sense that belongs to last words of this campaign , I assure you that I have endeavored , in the presentation of these issues , to appeal to the thoughtful people of the United States , that I have kept foremost in my thought the welfare of my country , that my vision has been of their homes and their necessities . And I accept this great demonstration as evidence of the support which you are giving to me out of your convictions in this battle . I have made no effort to appeal to destructive emotions I have made an endeavor to appeal to reason which I can only hope has been effective . I have fixed my faith upon the logical conclusions of the thoughtful people who have never failed this country in any hour of danger .<speech_sep>In my recommendations to Congress and in the organizations created during the past few months , there is a definite program for turning the tide of deflation and starting the country upon the road to recovery . This program has been formulated after consultation with leaders of every branch of American public life , of labor , of agriculture , of commerce , and of industry . A considerable part of it depends on voluntary organization in the country . This is already in action . A part of it requires legislation . It is a nonpartisan program . I am interested in its principles rather than its details . I appeal for unity of action for its consummation . The major steps that we must take are domestic . The action needed is in the home field , and it is urgent . While reestablishment of stability abroad is helpful to us and to the world , and I am confident that it is in progress , yet we must depend upon ourselves . If we devote ourselves to these urgent domestic questions we can make a very large measure of recovery irrespective of foreign influences . That the country may get this program thoroughly in mind , I review its major parts 1 . Provision for distress among the unemployed by voluntary organization and united action of local authorities in cooperation with the President s Unemployment Relief Organization , whose appeal for organization and funds has met with a response unparalleled since the war . Almost every locality in the country has reported that it will take care of its own . In order to assure that there will be no failure to meet problems as they arise , the organization will continue through the winter . 2 . Our employers are organized and will continue to give part time work instead of discharging a portion of their employees . This plan is affording help to several million people who otherwise would have no resources . The Government will continue to aid unemployment over the winter through the large program of Federal construction now in progress . This program represents an expenditure at the rate of over 60 million a month . 3 . The strengthening of the Federal land bank system in the interest of the farmer . 4 . Assistance to homeowners , both agricultural and urban , who are in difficulties in securing renewals of mortgages by strengthening the country banks , savings banks , and building and loan associations through the creation of a system of home loan discount banks . By restoring these institutions to normal functioning , we will see a revival in employment in new construction . 5 . Development of a plan to assure early distribution to depositors in closed banks , and thus relieve distress amongst millions of smaller depositors and smaller businesses . 6 . The enlargement under full safeguards of the discount facilities of the Federal Reserve banks in the interest of a more adequate credit system . 7 . The creation for the period of the emergency of a reconstruction finance corporation to furnish necessary credit otherwise unobtainable under existing circumstances , and so give confidence to agriculture , to industry and to labor against further paralyzing influences and shocks , but more especially by the reopening of credit channels which will assure the maintenance and normal working of the commercial fabric . 8 . Assistance to all railroads by protection from unregulated competition , and to the weaker ones by the formation of a credit pool , as authorized by the Interstate Commerce Commission , and by other measures , thus affording security to the bonds held by our insurance companies , our savings banks , and other benevolent trusts , thereby protecting the interest of every family and promoting the recuperation of the railways . 9 . The revision of our banking laws so as better to safeguard the depositors . 10 . The safeguarding and support of banks through the National Credit Association , which has already given great confidence to bankers and extended their ability to make loans to commerce and industry . 11 . The maintenance of the public finance on a sound basis a By drastic economy . b Resolute opposition to the enlargement of Federal expenditure until recovery . c A temporary increase in taxation , so distributed that the burden may be borne in proportion to ability to pay amongst all groups and in such a fashion as not to retard recovery . 12 . The maintenance of the American system of individual initiative and individual and community responsibility . The broad purpose of this program is to restore the old job instead of create a made job , to help the worker at the desk as well as the bench , to restore their buying power for the farmers products in fact , turn the processes of liquidation and deflation and start the country forward all along the line . This program will affect favorably every man , woman and child not a special class or any group . One of its purposes is to start the flow of credit now impeded by fear and uncertainty , to the detriment of every manufacturer , business man and farmer . To reestablish normal functioning is the need of the hour .<speech_sep>To the Senate In requesting the Senate to convene in session for the special purpose of dealing with the treaty for the limitation and reduction of naval armament signed at London April 22 , 1930 , it is desirable that I should present my views upon it . This is especially necessary because of misinformation and misrepresentation which has been widespread by those who in reality are opposed to all limitation and reduction in naval arms . We must naturally expect oppositions from those groups who believe in unrestricted military strength as an objective of the American Nation . Indeed , we find the same type of minds in Great Britain and Japan in parallel opposition to this treaty . Nevertheless , I am convinced that the overwhelming majority of the American people are opposed to the conception of these groups . Our people believe that military strength should be held in conformity with the sole purpose of national defense they earnestly desire real progress in limitation and reduction of naval arms of the world , and their aspiration is for abolition of competition in the building of arms as a step toward world peace . Such a result can be obtained in no other way than by international agreement . The present treaty is one which holds these safeguards and advances these ideals . Its ratification is in the interest of the United States . It is fair to the other participating nations . It promotes the cause of good relations . The only alternative to this treaty is the competitive building of navies with all its flow of suspicion , hate , ill will , and ultimate disaster . History supports those who hold to agreement as the path to peace . Every naval limitation treaty with which we are familiar , from the Rush Bagot agreement of 1817 , limiting vessels of war on the Great Lakes , to the Washington arms treaty of 1921 , has resulted in a marked growth of good will and confidence between the nations which were parties to it . It is folly to think that because we are the richest Nation in the world we can out build all other countries . Other nations will make any sacrifice to maintain their instruments of defense against us , and we shall eventually reap in their hostility and ill will the full measure of the additional burden which we may thus impose upon them . The very entry of the United States into such courses as this would invite the consolidation of the rest of the world against us and bring our peace and independence into jeopardy . We have only to look at the state of Europe in 1914 to find ample evidence of the futility and danger of competition in arms . It will be remembered that in response to recommendations from the Senate a conference between the United States , Great Britain , and Japan , for limitation of those categories of naval arms not covered by the Washington treaty of 1921 was held at Geneva in 1927 . That conference failed because the United States could not agree to the large size of fleets demanded by other governments . The standards set up at that time would have required an ultimate fleet of about 1 , 400 , 000 tons for the United States . As against this the total United States fleet set out under this treaty will be about 1 , 123 , 000 tons . Defense is the primary function of government , and therefore our first concern in examination of any act of this character is the test of its adequacy in defense . No critic has yet asserted that with the navies provided in this agreement , together with our Army , our aerial defense , and our national resources , we can not defend ourselves and certainly we want no Military Establishment for the purpose of domination of other nations . Our naval defense position under this treaty is the more clear if we examine our present naval strength in comparison to the present strength of the other nations , and then examine the improvements in this proportion which will result from this treaty . This improvement arises from the anticipation of parity in battleships to be reached 10 years hence under the Washington arms treaty and the fact that other nations have been building in the classes of ships not limited by that treaty , while we , until lately , lagged behind . On the 1st of January last the total naval tonnage , disregarding paper fleets , and taking only those ships actually built and building , was , for the United States 1 , 180 , 000 tons for the British Empire 1 , 332 , 000 tons for Japan 768 , 000 tons . That is , if the United States Navy be taken as 100 , then the British Navy equals 113 and the Japanese Navy 65 . Under this treaty the United States will have 1 , 123 , 000 tons , Great Britain 1 , 151 , 000 tons , and Japan 714 , 000 tons , or a ratio of 100 for the United States to 102 . 4 for Great Britain and 63 . 6 for Japan . The slightly larger tonnage ratio mentioned for Great Britain is due to the fact that her cruiser fleet will be constituted more largely of smaller vessels , weaker in gun power , but the United States has the option to duplicate the exact tonnage and gun caliber of the British cruiser fleet if we desire to exercise it The relative improvement in the position of the United States under this treaty is even better than this statement would indicate . In the more important categories battleships , aircraft carriers , 8 inch and 6 inch cruisers , that is , omitting the secondary arms of destroyers and submarines the fleet built and actually building on January 1 , of this year was 809 , 000 tons in the United States , 1 , 088 , 000 tons in Great Britain and 568 , 000 tons in Japan , or upon the basis of 100 for the United States it was 134 for Great Britain and 70 for Japan . Under this treaty the United States will on January 1 , 1937 , possess , completed , 911 , 000 tons of these major units , Great Britain 948 , 000 tons and Japan 556 , 000 tons . In addition , the United States will have one 10 , 000 ton 8 inch cruiser two thirds completed . This will give a ratio in these categories of 100 for the United States to 102 . 9 for Great Britain and 60 . 5 for Japan . The reason for the excess British tonnage is again as mentioned above . In other words , the United States , in these categories , increases by 102 , 000 tons , Great Britain decreases by 140 , 000 tons and Japan decreases by 12 , 000 tons . These readjustments of units are to take place during the next six years . The treaty then comes to an end except for such arrangements as may be made then for its continuance . The major discussion has been directed almost wholly to the fact that the United States is to have 18 cruisers armed with 8 inch guns , with an aggregate tonnage of 180 , 000 tons , as against Great Britain s 15 such ships , with a tonnage of 146 , 800 tons and Japan s 12 such ships of a tonnage of 108 , 400 tons the United States supplementing this tonnage with cruisers armed with 6 inch guns up to a total of 323 , 500 tons , Great Britain up to 339 , 000 tons , and Japan to 208 , 800 tons the larger gross tonnage to Great Britain , as stated , being compensation for the larger gun caliber of the American cruiser fleet but , as said , the United States has the option to duplicate the British fleet , if it so desires . Criticism of this arrangement arises from the fact that the General Board of the United States Navy recommended that to reach parity with Great Britain the United States should have three more of the 10 , 000 ton cruisers 21 instead of 18 , with 8 inch guns , and a total of 315 , 000 tons or 8 , 000 tons less total cruiser tonnage than this treaty provides . Thus this treaty provides that instead of this 30 , 000 tons more of 8 inch ships recommended by the General Board , we will have 38 , 000 tons of ships armed with 6 inch guns , there being no limitation upon the size of cruisers up to 10 , 000 tons . Therefore , criticism revolves around less than 3 per cent of our whole fleet , and even within this 3 per cent comes the lesser question of whether 30 , 000 tons of ships armed with 8 inch guns are better than 38 , 000 tons armed with 6 inch guns . The opinion of our high naval authorities is divided on the relative merits of these alternatives . Many earnestly believe that the larger tonnage of 6 inch ships is more advantageous and others vice versa . However , those who seek to make this the outstanding feature of criticism fail to mention that under the London treaty the obligation of the Washington arms treaty of 1921 is so altered that Great Britain scraps 133 , 900 tons of battleships armed with 13 1029 inch guns , the United States scraps 70 , 000 tons of battleships armed with 12 inch guns , and Japan scraps 26 , 300 tons . These arrangements are made not only for reduction of arms but to anticipate the ultimate parity between the United States and Great Britain in battleships which would not otherwise be realized for several years . There is in this provision a relative gain in proportions compared with the British fleet of 63 , 900 tons of battleships with 13 1 2 inch guns . This is of vastly more importance than the dispute as to the relative combatant strength of 38 , 000 tons of 6 inch cruisers against 30 , 000 tons of 8 inch cruisers . Indeed it would seem that such criticisms must be based upon an undisclosed desire to break down all limitation of arms . To those who seek earnestly and properly for reduction in warships , I would point out that as compared with January 1 of this year , the total aggregate navies of the three powers under this treaty will have been reduced by nearly 300 , 000 tons . Had a settlement been made at Geneva in 1927 upon the only proposal possible at that time , the fleets of the three powers would have been approximately 680 , 000 tons greater than under the treaty now in consideration . The economic burdens and the diversion of taxes from welfare purposes which would be imposed upon ourselves and other nations by failure of this treaty are worth consideration . Under its provisions the replacement of battleships required under the Washington arms treaty of 1921 is postponed for six years . The costs of replacing and maintaining the three scrapped battleships is saved . Likewise we make economies in construction and operation by the reduction in our submarine and destroyer fleets to 52 , 700 and 150 , 000 tons respectively . What the possible saving over an otherwise inevitable era of competitive building would be no one can estimate . If we assume that our present naval program , except for this treaty , is to complete the ships authorized by Congress and those authorized and necessary to be replaced under the Washington arms treaty , and to maintain a destroyer fleet of about 225 , 000 tons and a submarine fleet of 90 , 000 tons , such a fleet will not reach parity with Great Britain , yet would cost in construction over 500 , 000 , 000 more during the next six years than the fleet provided under this treaty . But in addition to this , as stated , there is a very large saving by this treaty in annual operation of the fleet over what would be the case if we even built no more than the present programs . The more selfish minded will give little credence to the argument that savings by other parties to the agreement in the limitation of naval construction are of interest to the American people , yet the fundamental economic fact is that if the resources of these other nations are freed for devotion to the welfare of their people and to pacific purposes of reproductive commerce , they will result in blessings to the world , including ourselves . If we were to accept the Geneva conference base as the end of naval strength under competitive building for the three Governments , the savings in construction and operation by the treaty is literally billions of dollars . The question before us now is not whether we shall have a treaty with either three more 8 inch cruisers or four less 6 inch cruisers , or whether we shall have a larger reduction in tonnage . It is whether we shall have this treaty or no treaty . It is a question as to whether we shall move strongly toward limitation and reduction in naval arms or whether we shall have no limitation or reduction and shall enter upon a disastrous period of competitive armament . This treaty does mark an important step in disarmament and in world peace . It is important for many reasons that it should be dealt with at once . The subject has been under discussion since the Geneva conference three years ago . The lines of this treaty have been known and under discussion since last summer . The actual document has been before the American people and before the Senate for nearly three months . It has been favorably reported by the Senate Foreign Relations Committee . Every solitary fact which affects judgment upon the treaty is known , and the document itself comprises the sole obligation of the United States . If we fail now , the world will be again plunged backward from its progress toward peace .<speech_sep>Members of the American Bankers Association and guests I am glad to meet with this assembly of representative bankers from every State and almost every county of our country . During the past year you have carried the credit system of the Nation safely through a most difficult crisis . In this success you have demonstrated not alone the soundness of the credit system but also the capacity of our bankers in emergency . We have had a severe shock and there has been disorganization in our economic system which has temporarily checked the march of prosperity . But the fundamental assets of the Nation , the education , intelligence , virility , and the spiritual strength of our 120 million people have been unimpaired . The resources of our country in lands and mines are undiminished . Scientific discovery and invention have made further progress . The gigantic equipment and unparalleled organization for production and distribution are in many parts even stronger than 2 years ago . Though our production and consumption has been slowed down to 85 or 90 percent of normal , yet by the very fact of the steady functioning of the major portion of our system do we have the assurance of our ability and the economic strength to overcome the decline . The problem today is to complete the restoration of order in our ranks and to intensify our efforts to prevent such interruptions for the future . And it is not a problem in academic economics . It is a great human problem . The margin of shrinkage brings loss of savings , unemployment , privation , hardship , and fear , which are no part of our ideals for the American economic system . This depression is worldwide . Its causes and its effects lie only partly in the United States . Our country engaged in overspeculation in securities which crashed a year ago with great losses . A perhaps even larger immediate cause of our depression has been the effect upon us from the collapse in prices following overproduction of important raw materials , mostly in foreign countries . Particularly had the planting of rubber , coffee , wheat , sugar , and to a lesser extent cotton , expanded beyond world consumption even in normal times . The production of certain metals , such as silver , copper , and zinc , had likewise been overexpanded . These major over expansions have taken place largely outside of the United States . Their collapse has reduced the buying power of many countries . The prosperity of Brazil and Colombia has been temporarily affected from the situation in coffee Chile , Peru , Mexico , and Australia from the fall in silver , zinc , and copper . The buying power of India and China , dependent upon the price of silver has been affected . Australia , Canada , and the Argentine have been affected by the situation in wheat Cuba and Java have been depressed by the condition of the sugar industry East India generally has suffered from the fall in rubber . These and other causes have produced in some of the countries affected some political unrest . These economic disturbances have echoed in slowed down demand for manufactured goods from Europe and ourselves , with inevitable contribution to unemployment . But the readjustments in prices , which were also inevitable , are far along their course . Most of these commodities are below the level at which sufficient production can be maintained for the world s normal needs and , therefore , sooner or later must recover . Because the present depression is worldwide and because its causes were worldwide does not require that we should wait upon the recovery of the rest of the world . We can make a very large degree of recovery independently of what may happen elsewhere . I should like to remind you that we did precisely that thing in 1922 . We were then experiencing the results of the collapse of war inflation in all commodities and in every direction . We had less organized cooperation between the business community and the Government to help mitigate that situation . The rest of the world was in chaos from the war far more menacing both to economic and political stability than anything confronting us today . Our difficulties at that time were far more severe than they are at present . The commercial banks particularly were sufferers from a large volume of frozen credits and enjoyed nothing to compare with the comfortable liquidity that prevails today . We then had overexpansion and large stocks in most commodities today with one or two exceptions we are free from this deterrent . But we led the world in recovery . It was our independent recuperation from that depression , and the economic strength which we so liberally and largely furnished to other countries , that was the very basis for reconstruction of a war demoralized world . We are able in considerable degree to free ourselves of world influences and make a large measure of independent recovery because we are so remarkably self contained . Because of this , while our economic system is subject to the shock of world influences , we should be able , in large measure , to readjust ourselves . Our national production is over one third of the total of the whole commercial world . We consume an average of about 90 percent of our own production of commodities . If , for example , we assume a restored normal home consumption and held even our present reduced basis of exports , we should be upon a 97 percent of normal business basis . Even this illustration does not represent all of our self contained strength . We shall need mainly to depend upon our own strong arm for recovery , as other nations are in greater difficulty than we . We shall need again to undertake to assist and cooperate with them . Our imports of commodities in the main depend upon our domestic prosperity . Any forward movement in our recovery creates a demand for foreign raw materials and goods and thus instantly reacts to assist other countries the world over . I wish to take your time to discuss some of the pivotal relationships of the bankers not only to the immediate problem of recovery but to the wider problem of long view business stability . Any discussion of the one involves the other . Before I enter upon that subject , however , I wish to say that no one can occupy the high office of President and conceivably be other than completely confident of the future of the United States . Perhaps as to no other place does the cheerful courage and power of a confident people reflect as to his office . There are a few folks in business and several folks in the political world who resent the notion that things will ever get better and who wish to enjoy our temporary misery . To recount to these persons the progress of cooperation between the people and the Government in amelioration of this situation , or to mention that we are suffering far less than other countries , or that savings are piling up in the banks , or that our people are paying off installment purchases , that abundant capital is now pressing for new ventures and employment , only inspires the unkind retort that we should fix our gaze solely upon the unhappy features of the decline . And , above all , to chide the pessimism of persons who have assumed the end of those mighty forces which for 150 years have driven this land further and further toward that great human goal the abolition of intellectual and economic poverty is perhaps not a sympathetic approach . Nevertheless , I always have been , and I remain , an unquenchable believer in the resistless , dynamic power of American enterprise . This is no time an audience of American leaders of business is no place to talk of any surrender . We have known a thousand temporary setbacks , but the spirit of this people will never brook defeat . Our present situation is not a new experience . These interruptions to the orderly march of progress have been recurrent for a century . And apart from recovery from the present depression , the most urgent undertaking in our economic life is to devise further methods of preventing these storms . We must assure a higher degree of business stability for the future . The causes advanced for these movements are many and varied . There is no simple explanation . This is not an occasion for analysis of the many theories such as too little gold or the inflexible use of it . Whatever the remote causes may be , a large and immediate cause of most hard times is inflationary booms . These strike some segment of economic life somewhere in the world , and their reechoing destructive results bring depression and hard times . These inflations in currency or credit , in land or securities , or overexpansion in some sort of commodity production beyond possible demand even in good times may take place at home or abroad but they all bring retribution . The leaders of business , of economic thought , and of government have , for the last decade , given earnest search into cause and remedy of this sort of instability . Much has already been accomplished to check the violence of the storms and to mitigate their distress . As a result of these efforts the period of stable prosperity between storms is longer , the period of storm is shorter , and the relief work far more effective . But we need not go beyond our situation today to confirm the need for further effort . The economic fatalist believes that these crises are inevitable and bound to be recurrent . I would remind these pessimists that exactly the same thing was once said of typhoid , cholera , and smallpox . If medical science had sat down in a spirit of weak kneed resignation and accepted these scourges as uncontrollable visitations of Providence , we should still have them with us . This is not the spirit of modern science . Science girds itself with painstaking research to find the nature and origin of disease and to devise methods for its prevention . That should be our attitude toward these economic pestilences . They are not dispensations of Providence . I am confident in the faith that their control , so far as the causes lie within our own boundaries , is within the genius of modern business . We have all been much engaged with measures of relief from the effect of the collapse of a year ago . At that time I determined that it was my duty , even without precedent , to call upon the business of the country for coordinated and constructive action to resist the forces of disintegration . The business community , the bankers , labor , and the Government have cooperated in wider spread measures of mitigation than have ever been attempted before . Our bankers and the Reserve System have carried the country through the credit storm without impairment . Our leading business concerns have sustained wages , have distributed employment , have expedited heavy construction . The Government has expanded public works , assisted in credit to agriculture , and has restricted immigration . These measures have maintained a higher degree of consumption than would have otherwise been the case . They have thus prevented a large measure of unemployment . They have provided much new employment . Our present experience in relief should form the basis of even more amplified plans in the future . But in the long view the equally important thing is prevention . We would need have less concern about what to do in bad times if we discovered and erected in good times further safeguards against the excesses which lead to these depressions . American business has proved its capacity to solve some great human problems in economics . The relation between employer and employee has here reached a more stable and satisfactory basis than anywhere else in the world . We have largely solved the problem of how to secure the consumption of the gigantic increase of goods produced through that multiplication of per capita production by the application of science and the use of laborsaving devices . That solution has been attained by sharing the savings in production costs between labor , capital , and the consumer , through increased wages and salaries to the worker , and decreased prices to the consumer with consequent increased buying power for still more goods . Every step in that solution is a revolution from the older theories of business . We may safely assume that our economic future is safe so far as it is dependent upon a competent handling of problems of productivity . But one result is to render further advance toward stability even more urgent , because with higher standards of living the whole system is more sensitive and the penalties of instability more widespread . There is no one group of which the public expects so much in assuring stability as the bankers , because in the vortex of these storms many values lose their moorings . Nor can any other group contribute so much in constructive thought and action to solve the problem either today or in the long run . Three most important relationships to these business movements lie in the banker s field . The first is what , for lack of better terms , we call psychology both that contagious overoptimism which accelerates the inflation of the boom and those depths of fear and pessimism which deepen and prolong the depression . The American banker has come to occupy a unique position in the strategy of stability , for he is the economic adviser of American business . He is the listening post of economic movement . He in large measure makes or tempers its psychology . I do not suppose the banker has consciously sought this new function of general adviser , but such he has become . His business is no longer the simple function of discounting commercial bills and lending money on first mortgages . That is today but part of his work . These days , when he establishes a line of credit to a business , or furnishes loans upon securities of a business , or advises investment in a business , he must know the elements which make for success and failure of that business . And he must form judgment as to the future trend of business in general . On the other side , the American businessman , big and little , the farmer , and the labor leader are coming more and more to consult with the banker on problems of his business . Whatever the origin of his position may be , the banker is now the economic guide , philosopher , and friend of his customers , and his philosophy can dampen our enthusiasm and equally it can lift our courage and hope . The second point of the banker s unique position in relation to business trends lies in the part which credit plays in the whole business process . Obviously during the inflationary period the use of credit for unwise expansion and speculation draws away the supply of credit from normal business . It imposes upon normal business an interest rate which strangles the orderly commerce of the country . Commerce sickens under this pressure , its pace slackens and contributes to collapse . Therefore , I wish to emphasize what has long been recognized that is , that the flow of credit can accelerate and it can retard such movements . Equally a wise direction of credit provides a large contribution to recovery from depressions . The third reason why this is so much a banker s problem is that banking is the one great line of business activity that is in itself interconnected . Each credit institution shares the credit burdens of others and all are largely coordinated through national organization the Federal Reserve System . The Reserve System and its member banks and the Treasury participation , in fact , form a widespread cooperative organization , acting in the broad interest of the whole people . To a large degree it can influence the flow of credit . Bankers themselves are represented at each stage of management . And , in addition , the various boards and advisory committees represent also industry , agriculture , merchandising , and the Government . The Reserve System , therefore , furnishes an admirable center for cooperation of the banking business with the production and distribution industries and the Government in the development of broad and detached policies of business stability . You have gained much experience from the two great crises of recent years . I trust you will seriously and systematically consider what further effective measures can be taken either in the business world or in cooperation with the Government in development of such policies , both for the present depression and for the future . I know of no greater public service . It is a service to every businessman , to every farmer , to every worker , whether at the desk or bench . I am not assuming you can do it all , or that all disturbance , domestic or foreign , can be wholly prevented or cured . The Government should cooperate . It plays a large part in the credit structure of the country . Its fiscal system has most important bearings . For instance , I believe an inquiry might develop that our system of taxes upon capital gains directly encourages inflation by strangling the free movement of land and securities . The regulatory functions of the Federal and State Governments also have a bearing on this subject through their effect upon the financial strength of the railways and utilities . During a period of depression , the soundest and most available method of relief to unemployment is expansion of public works and construction in the utilities , railways , and heavy industries . The volume of possible expansion of construction in these private industries is about four or five times that in public works . During the present depression these industries have done their full part , but especially the railways have been handicapped by some provisions of the Transportation Act of 1920 . With wider public vision the railways could be strengthened into a greater balance wheel of stability . We have need to consider all of our economic legislation , whether banking , utilities , or agriculture , or anything else , from the point of view of its effect upon business stability . I have never believed that our form of government could satisfactorily solve economic problems by direct action could successfully conduct business institutions . The Government can and must cure abuses . What the Government can do best is to encourage and assist in the creation and development of institutions controlled by our citizens and evolved by themselves from their own needs and their own experience and directed in a sense of a trusteeship of public interest . The Federal Reserve is such an institution . Without intrusion the Government can sometimes give leadership and serve to bring together divergent elements and secure cooperation in development of ideas , measures , and institutions . That is a reenforcement of our individualism . It does not cripple the initiative and enterprise of our people by the substitution of government . Proper cooperation among our people in public interest , and continuation of such institutional growths , strengthen the whole foundation of the Nation , for self government outside of political government is the truest form of self government . It is in this manner that these problems should be met and solved . I wish to revert to the influence of the bankers , through encouragement and leadership , in expedition of our recovery from the present situation . You have already done much , and at this juncture the responsibility of those in control of money and credit is very great . Without faith on your part and without your good offices , the early return to full prosperity cannot be accomplished . This depression will be shortened largely to the degree that you feel that you can prudently , by counsel and specific assistance , instill into your clients from industry , agriculture , and commerce a feeling of assurance . We know that one of the prerequisites of ending a depression is an ample supply of credit at low rates of interest . This supply and these rates are now available through the cooperation of the banks and the Federal Reserve System . The income of a large part of our people is not reduced by the depression , but it is affected by unnecessary fears and pessimism , the result of which is to slacken the consumption of goods and discourage enterprise . Here the very atmosphere of your offices will affect the mental attitude and , if you please , courage , of the individuals who will depend upon you for both counsel and money . Many , perhaps all of you , have been through other periods of depression . Those of you who have had occasion to review the experience of the past will , I believe , join in the thought that there comes a time in every depression when the changed attitude of the financial agencies can help the upward movement in our economic forces . I started with the premise that this question of stability was much more than a problem in academic economics it is a great human problem , for it involves the happiness of millions of homes . A continued unity of effort , both in our present situation and in establishing safeguards for the future , is the need of today . No one can contribute more than our banking community . It appears from the press that someone suggested in your discussion that our American standards of living should be lowered . To that I emphatically disagree . I do not believe it represents the views of this association . Not only do I not accept such a theory , but on the contrary , the whole purpose and ideal of this economic system which is distinctive of our country , is to increase the standard of living by the adoption and the constantly widening diffusion of invention and discovery amongst the whole of our people . Any retreat from our American philosophy of constantly increasing standards of living becomes a retreat into perpetual unemployment and the acceptance of a cesspool of poverty for some large part of our people . Our economic system is but an instrument of the social advancement of the American people . It is an instrument by which we add to the security and richness of life of every individual . It by no means comprises the whole purpose of life , but it is the foundation upon which can be built the finer things of the spirit . Increase in enrichment must be the objective of the Nation , not decrease . In conclusion , I would again profess my own undaunted faith in those mighty spiritual and intellectual forces of liberty , self government , initiative , invention , and courage , which have throughout our whole national life motivated our progress , and driven us ever forward . These forces , which express the true genius of our people , are undiminished . They have already shown their ability to resist this immediate shock . Any recession in American business is but a temporary halt in the prosperity of a great people .<speech_sep>Certain Senators have issued a public statement to the effect that unless the President and the House of Representatives agree to appropriations from the Federal Treasury for charitable purposes they will force an extra session of Congress . I do not wish to add acrimony to a discussion , but would rather state this case as I see its fundamentals . This is not an issue as to whether people shall go hungry or cold in the United States . It is solely a question of the best method by which hunger and cold shall be prevented . It is a question as to whether the American people on one hand will maintain the spirit of charity and mutual self help through voluntary giving and the responsibility of local government as distinguished on the other hand from appropriations out of the Federal Treasury for such purposes . My own conviction is strongly that if we break down this sense of responsibility of individual generosity to individual and mutual self help in the country in times of national difficulty and if we start appropriations of this character we have not only impaired something infinitely valuable in the life of the American people but have struck at the roots of self government . Once this has happened it is not the cost of a few score millions , but we are faced with the abyss of reliance in future upon Government charity in some form or other . The money involved is indeed the least of the costs to American ideals and American institutions . President Cleveland , in 1887 , confronted with a similar issue stated in part A prevalent tendency to disregard the limited mission of this power and duty should , I think , be steadfastly resisted , to the end that the lesson should be constantly enforced that though the people support the Government , the Government should not support the people . The friendliness and charity of our countrymen can always be relied upon to relieve their fellow citizens in misfortune . This has been repeatedly and quite lately demonstrated . Federal aid in such cases encourages the expectation of paternal care on the part of the Government and weakens the sturdiness of our national character , while it prevents the indulgence among our people of that kindly sentiment and conduct which strengthens the bonds of a common brotherhood . And there is a practical problem in all this . The help being daily extended by neighbors , by local and national agencies , by municipalities , by industry and a great multitude of organizations throughout the country today is many times any appropriation yet proposed . The opening of the doors of the Federal Treasury is likely to stifle this giving and thus destroy far more resources than the proposed charity from the Federal Government . The basis of successful relief in national distress is to mobilize and organize the infinite number of agencies of self help in the community . That has been the American way of relieving distress among our own people and the country is successfully meeting its problem in the American way today . We have two entirely separate and distinct situations in the country the first is the drought area the second is the unemployment in our large industrial centers for both of which these appropriations attempt to make charitable contributions . Immediately upon the appearance of the drought last August , I convoked a meeting of the Governors , the Red Cross and the railways , the bankers and other agencies in the country and laid the foundations of organization and the resources to stimulate every degree of self help to meet the situation which it was then obvious would develop . The result of this action was to attack the drought problem in a number of directions . The Red Cross established committees in every drought county , comprising the leading citizens of those counties , with instructions to them that they were to prevent starvation among their neighbors and , if the problem went beyond local resources , the Red Cross would support them . The organization has stretched throughout the area of suffering , the people are being cared for today through the hands and with sympathetic understanding and upon the responsibility of their neighbors who are being supported , in turn , by the fine spirit of mutual assistance of the American people . The Red Cross officials , whose long , devoted service and experience is unchallenged , inform me this morning that , except for the minor incidents of any emergency organization , no one is going hungry and no one need go hungry or cold . To reinforce this work at the opening of Congress I recommended large appropriations for loans to rehabilitate agriculture from the drought and provision of further large sums for public works and construction in the drought territory which would give employment in further relief to the whole situation . These Federal activities provide for an expenditure of upward of 100 million in this area and it is in progress today . The Red Cross has always met the situations which it has undertaken . After careful survey and after actual experience of several months with their part of the problem they have announced firmly that they can command the resources with which to meet any call for human relief in prevention of hunger and suffering in drought areas and that they accept this responsibility . They have refused to accept Federal appropriations as not being consonant either with the need or the character of their organization . The Government departments have given and are giving them every assistance . We possibly need to strengthen the Public Health Service in matters of sanitation and to strengthen the credit facilities of that area through the method approved by the Government departments to divert some existing appropriations to strengthen agricultural credit corporations . In the matter of unemployment outside of the drought areas important economic measures of mutual self help have been developed such as those to maintain wages , to distribute employment equitably , to increase construction work by industry , to increase Federal construction work from a rate of about 275 million a year prior to the depression to a rate now of over 750 million a year , to expand State and municipal construction all upon a scale never before provided or even attempted in any depression . But beyond this to assure that there shall be no suffering , in every town and county voluntary agencies in relief of distress have been strengthened and created and generous funds have been placed at their disposal . They are carrying on their work efficiently and sympathetically . But after and coincidently with voluntary relief , our American system requires that municipal , county , and State governments shall use their own resources and credit before seeking such assistance from the Federal Treasury . I have indeed spent much of my life in fighting hardship and starvation both abroad and in the Southern States . I do not feel that I should be charged with lack of human sympathy for those who suffer , but I recall that in all the organizations with which I have been connected over these many years , the foundation has been to summon the maximum of self help . I am proud to have sought the help of Congress in the past for nations who were so disorganized by war and anarchy that self help was impossible . But even these appropriations were but a tithe of that which was coincidently mobilized from the public charity of the United States and foreign countries . There is no such paralysis in the United States , and I am confident that our people have the resources , the initiative , the courage , the stamina and kindliness of spirit to meet this situation in the way they have met their problems over generations . I will accredit to those who advocate Federal charity a natural anxiety for the people of their States . I am willing to pledge myself that , if the time should ever come that the voluntary agencies of the country together with the local and State governments are unable to find resources with which to prevent hunger and suffering in my country , I will ask the aid of every resource of the Federal Government because I would no more see starvation amongst our countrymen than would any Senator or Congressman . I have the faith in the American people that such a day will not come . The American people are doing their job today . They should be given a chance to show whether they wish to preserve the principles of individual and local responsibility and mutual self help before they embark on what I believe is a disastrous system . I feel sure they will succeed if given the opportunity . The whole business situation would be greatly strengthened by the prompt completion of the necessary legislation of this session of Congress and thereby the unemployment problem would be lessened , the drought area indirectly benefited , and the resources of self help in the country strengthened .<speech_sep>I observe that measures have been already introduced in Congress and are having advocacy , which , if passed , would impose an increased expenditure beyond the sums which I have recommended for the present and next fiscal year by a total of nearly 4 , 500 million , and mostly under the guise of giving relief of some kind or another . The gross sums which I have recommended to carry on the essential functions of the Government include the extreme sums which can be applied by the Federal Government in actual emergency employment or relief , and are the maximum which can be financed without increase in taxes . No matter how devised , an increase in taxes in the end falls upon the workers and farmers , or alternatively deprives industry of that much ability to give employment and defeats the very purpose of these schemes . For the Government to finance by bond issues deprives industry and agriculture of just that much capital for its own use and for employment . Prosperity cannot be restored by raids upon the Public Treasury . The leaders of both parties are cooperating to prevent any such event . Some of these schemes are ill considered , some represent enthusiasts , and some represent the desire of individuals to show that they are more generous than the administration or that they are more generous than even the leaders of their own parties . They are playing politics at the expense of human misery . Many of these measures are being promoted by organizations and agencies outside of Congress and being pushed upon Members of Congress . Some of them are mistaken as to the results they will accomplish and they are all mistaken as to the ability of the Federal Government to undertake such burdens . Some of these outside agencies are also engaged in promoting political purposes . The American people will not be misled by such tactics .<speech_sep>