Thank you very much . And tonight I have the high privilege and distinct honor of my own as the first President to begin the State of the Union message with these words Madam Speaker . In his day , the late Congressman Thomas D Alesandro , , from Baltimore , Maryland , saw Presidents Roosevelt and Truman at this rostrum . But nothing could compare with the sight of his only daughter , Nancy , presiding tonight as Speaker of the House of Representatives . Congratulations , Madam Speaker . Two Members of the House and Senate are not with us tonight , and we pray for the recovery and speedy return of Senator Tim Johnson and Congressman Charlie Norwood . Madam Speaker , Vice President Cheney , members of Congress , distinguished guests , and fellow citizens The rite of custom brings us together at a defining hour when decisions are hard and courage is needed . We enter the year 2007 with large endeavors underway and others that are ours to begin . In all of this , much is asked of us . We must have the will to face difficult challenges and determined enemies and the wisdom to face them together . Some in this chamber are new to the House and the Senate , and I congratulate the Democrat majority . Congress has changed , but not our responsibilities . Each of us is guided by our own convictions , and to these we must stay faithful . Yet we are all held to the same standards and called to serve the same good purposes to extend this nation s prosperity to spend the people s money wisely to solve problems , not leave them to future generations to guard America against all evil and to keep faith with those we have sent forth to defend us . We are not the first to come here with a government divided and uncertainty in the air . Like many before us , we can work through our differences , and we can achieve big things for the American people . Our citizens do not much care which side of the aisle we sit on , as long as we are willing to cross that aisle when there is work to be done . Our job is to make life better for our fellow Americans and to help them build a future of hope and opportunity , and this is the business before us tonight . A future of hope and opportunity begins with a growing economy , and that is what we have . We are now in the 41st month of uninterrupted job growth , a recovery that has created 7 . 2 million new jobs so far . Unemployment is low inflation is low wages are rising . This economy is on the move , and our job is to keep it that way , not with more government but with more enterprise . Next week , I will deliver a full report on the state of our economy . Tonight I want to discuss three economic reforms that deserve to be priorities for this Congress . First , we must balance the federal budget . We can do so without raising taxes . What we need is spending discipline in Washington , We set a goal of cutting the deficit in half by 2009 and met that goal three years ahead of schedule . Now let us take the next step . In the coming weeks , I will submit a budget that eliminates the federal deficit within the next five years . I ask you to make the same commitment . Together we can restrain the spending appetite of the federal government , and we can balance the federal budget . Next , there is the matter of earmarks . These special interest items are often slipped into bills at the last hour when not even C SPAN is watching . In 2005 alone , the number of earmarks grew to over 13 , 000 and totaled nearly 18 billion . Even worse , over 90 percent of the earmarks never make it to the floor of the House and Senate . They are dropped into committee reports that are not even part of the bill that arrives on my desk . You did not vote them into law I did not sign them into law yet they are treated as if they have the force of law . The time has come to end this practice . So let us work together to reform the budget process , expose every earmark to the light of day and to a vote in Congress , and cut the number and cost of earmarks at least in half by the end of this session . And finally , to keep this economy strong , we must take on the challenge of entitlements . Social Security and Medicare and Medicaid are commitments of conscience , and so it is our duty to keep them permanently sound . Yet we are failing in that duty . And this failure will one day leave our children with three bad options huge tax increases huge deficits or huge and immediate cuts in benefits . Everyone in this chamber knows this to be true , yet somehow we have not found it in ourselves to act . So let us work together and do it now . With enough good sense and good will , you and I can fix Medicare and Medicaid and save Social Security . Spreading opportunity and hope in America also requires public schools that give children the knowledge and character they need in life . Five years ago , we rose above partisan differences to pass the No Child Left Behind Act , preserving local control , raising standards , and holding schools accountable for results . And because we acted , students are performing better in reading and math and minority students are closing the achievement gap . Now the task is to build on the success without watering down standards , without taking control from local communities , and without backsliding and calling it reform . We can lift student achievement even higher by giving local leaders flexibility to turn around failing schools and by giving families with children stuck in failing schools the right to choose someplace better . We must increase funds for students who struggle and make sure these children get the special help they need . And we can make sure our children are prepared for the jobs of the future and our country is more competitive by strengthening math and science skills . The No Child Left Behind Act has worked for America s children , and I ask Congress to reauthorize this good law . A future of hope and opportunity requires that all our citizens have affordable and available health care . When it comes to health care , government has an obligation to care for the elderly , the disabled , and poor children , and we will meet those responsibilities . For all other Americans , private health insurance is the best way to meet their needs . But many Americans cannot afford a health insurance policy , and so tonight I propose two new initiatives to help more Americans afford their own insurance . First , I propose a standard tax deduction for health insurance that will be like the standard tax deduction for dependents . Families with health insurance will pay no income on payroll tax or payroll taxes on 15 , 000 of their income . Single Americans with health insurance will pay no income or payroll taxes on 7 , 500 of their income . With this reform , more than 100 million men , women , and children who are now covered by employer provided insurance will benefit from lower tax bills . At the same time , this reform will level the playing field for those who do not get health insurance through their job . For Americans who now purchase health insurance on their own , this proposal would mean a substantial tax savings 4 , 500 for a family of four making 60 , 000 a year . And for the millions of other Americans who have no health insurance at all , this deduction would help put a basic , private health insurance plan within their reach . Changing the tax code is a vital and necessary step to making health care affordable for more Americans . My second proposal is to help the states that are coming up with innovative ways to cover the uninsured . States that make basic private health insurance available to all their citizens should receive federal funds to help them provide this coverage to the poor and the sick . I have asked the Secretary of Health and Human Services to work with Congress to take existing federal funds and use them to create Affordable Choices grants . These grants would give our nation s Governors more money and more flexibility to get private health insurance to those most in need . There are many other ways that Congress can help . We need to expand health savings accounts . We need to help small businesses through association health plans . We need to reduce costs and medical errors with better information technology . We will encourage price transparency . And to protect good doctors from junk lawsuits , we need to pass medical liability reform . In all we do , we must remember that the best health care decisions are not made by government and insurance companies but by patients and their doctors . Extending hope and opportunity in our country requires an immigration system worthy of America , with laws that are fair and borders that are secure . When laws and borders are routinely violated , this harms the interests of our country . To secure our border , we are doubling the size of the Border Patrol and funding new infrastructure and technology . Yet even with all these steps , we cannot fully secure the border unless we take pressure off the border , and that requires a temporary worker program . We should establish a legal and orderly path for foreign workers to enter our country to work on a temporary basis . As a result , they will not have to try to sneak in , and that will leave border agents free to chase down drug smugglers and criminals and terrorists . We will enforce our immigration laws at the worksite and give employers the tools to verify the legal status of their workers , so there is no excuse left for violating the law . We need to uphold the great tradition of the melting pot that welcomes and assimilates new arrivals . We need to resolve the status of the illegal immigrants who are already in our country without animosity and without amnesty . Convictions run deep in this Capitol when it comes to immigration . Let us have a serious , civil , and conclusive debate , so that you can pass and I can sign comprehensive immigration reform into law . Extending hope and opportunity depends on a stable supply of energy that keeps America s economy running and America s environment clean . For too long , our nation has been dependent on foreign oil . And this dependence leaves us more vulnerable to hostile regimes and to terrorists who could cause huge disruptions of oil shipments and raise the price of oil and do great harm to our economy . It is in our vital interest to diversify America s energy supply . The way forward is through technology . We must continue changing the way America generates electric power by even greater use of clean coal technology , solar and wind energy , and clean , safe nuclear power . We need to press on with battery research for plug in and hybrid vehicles and expand the use of clean diesel vehicles and biodiesel fuel . We must continue investing in new methods of producing ethanol , using everything from wood chips to grasses to agricultural wastes . We made a lot of progress , thanks to good policies here in Washington and the strong response of the market . And now even more dramatic advances are within reach . Tonight I ask Congress to join me in pursuing a great goal . Let us build on the work we have done and reduce gasoline usage in the United States by 20 percent in the next 10 years . When we do that , we will have cut our total imports by the equivalent of three quarters of all the oil we now import from the Middle East . To reach this goal , we must increase the supply of alternative fuels by setting a mandatory fuels standard to require 35 billion gallons of renewable and alternative fuels in 2017 and that is nearly five times the current target . At the same time , we need to reform and modernize fuel economy standards for cars the way we did for light trucks and conserve up to eight and a half billion more gallons of gasoline by 2017 . Achieving these ambitious goals will dramatically reduce our dependence on foreign oil , but it is not going to eliminate it . And so as we continue to diversify our fuel supply , we must step up domestic oil production in environmentally sensitive ways . And to further protect America against severe disruptions to our oil supply , I ask Congress to double the current capacity of the Strategic Petroleum Reserve . America is on the verge of technological breakthroughs that will enable us to live our lives less dependent on oil . And these technologies will help us be better stewards of the environment , and they will help us to confront the serious challenge of global climate change . A future of hope and opportunity requires a fair , impartial system of justice . The lives of our citizens across our nation are affected by the outcome of cases pending in our federal courts . We have a shared obligation to ensure that the federal courts have enough judges to hear those cases and deliver timely rulings . As President , I have a duty to nominate qualified men and women to vacancies on the federal bench , and the United States Senate has a duty as well , to give those nominees a fair hearing and a prompt up or down vote on the Senate floor . For all of us in this room , there is no higher responsibility than to protect the people of this country from danger . Five years have come and gone since we saw the scenes and felt the sorrow that the terrorists can cause . We have had time to take stock of our situation . We have added many critical protections to guard the homeland . We know with certainty that the horrors of that September morning were just a glimpse of what the terrorists intend for us unless we stop them . With the distance of time , we find ourselves debating the causes of conflict and the course we have followed . Such debates are essential when a great democracy faces great questions . Yet one question has surely been settled that to win the war on terror , we must take the fight to the enemy . From the start , America and our allies have protected our people by staying on the offense . The enemy knows that the days of comfortable sanctuary , easy movement , steady financing , and free flowing communications are long over . For the terrorists , life since 9 11 has never been the same . Our success in this war is often measured by the things that did not happen . We cannot know the full extent of the attacks that we and our allies have prevented , but here is some of what we do know . We stopped an Al Qaeda plot to fly a hijacked airplane into the tallest building on the west coast . We broke up a Southeast Asian terror cell grooming operatives for attacks inside the United States . We uncovered an Al Qaeda cell developing anthrax to be used in attacks against America . And just last August , British authorities uncovered a plot to blow up passenger planes bound for America over the Atlantic Ocean . For each life saved , we owe a debt of gratitude to the brave public servants who devote their lives to finding the terrorists and stopping them . Every success against the terrorists is a reminder of the shoreless ambitions of this enemy . The evil that inspired and rejoiced in 9 11 is still at work in the world . And so long as that is the case , America is still a nation at war . In the mind of the terrorists , this war began well before September 11 and will not end until their radical vision is fulfilled . And these past five years have given us a much clearer view of the nature of this enemy . Al Qaeda and its followers are Sunni extremists possessed by hatred and commanded by a harsh and narrow ideology . Take almost any principle of civilization , and their goal is the opposite . They preach with threats , instruct with bullets and bombs , and promise paradise for the murder of the innocent . Our enemies are quite explicit about their intentions . They want to overthrow moderate governments and establish safe havens from which to plan and carry out new attacks on our country . By killing and terrorizing Americans , they want to force our country to retreat from the world and abandon the cause of liberty . They would then be free to impose their will and spread their totalitarian ideology . Listen to this warning from the late terrorist Zarqawi We will sacrifice our blood and bodies to put an end to your dreams , and what is coming is even worse . Usama bin Laden declared Death is better than living on this Earth with the unbelievers among us . These men are not given to idle words , and they are just one camp in the Islamist radical movement . In recent times , it has also become clear that we face an escalating danger from Shi a extremists who are just as hostile to America and are also determined to dominate the Middle East . Many are known to take direction from the regime in Iran , which is funding and arming terrorists like Hezballah a group second only to Al Qaeda in the American lives it has taken . The Shi a and Sunni extremists are different faces of the same totalitarian threat . Whatever slogans they chant when they slaughter the innocent , they have the same wicked purposes . They want to kill Americans , kill democracy in the Middle East , and gain the weapons to kill on an even more horrific scale . In the sixth year since our nation was attacked , I wish I could report to you that the dangers have ended . They have not . And so it remains the policy of this government to use every lawful and proper tool of intelligence , diplomacy , law enforcement , and military action to do our duty , to find these enemies , and to protect the American people . This war is more than a clash of arms it is a decisive ideological struggle . And the security of our nation is in the balance . To prevail , we must remove the conditions that inspire blind hatred and drove 19 men to get onto airplanes and to come and kill us . What every terrorist fears most is human freedom , societies where men and women make their own choices , answer to their own conscience , and live by their hopes instead of their resentments . Free people are not drawn to violent and malignant ideologies , and most will choose a better way when they are given a chance . So we advance our own security interests by helping moderates and reformers and brave voices for democracy . The great question of our day is whether America will help men and women in the Middle East to build free societies and share in the rights of all humanity . And I say , for the sake of our own security , we must . In the last two years , we have seen the desire for liberty in the broader Middle East , and we have been sobered by the enemy s fierce reaction . In 2005 , the world watched as the citizens of Lebanon raised the banner of the Cedar Revolution . They drove out the Syrian occupiers and chose new leaders in free elections . In 2005 , the people of Afghanistan defied the terrorists and elected a democratic legislature . And in 2005 , the Iraqi people held three national elections , choosing a transitional government , adopting the most progressive , democratic Constitution in the Arab world , and then electing a government under that Constitution . Despite endless threats from the killers in their midst , nearly 12 million Iraqi citizens came out to vote in a show of hope and solidarity that we should never forget . A thinking enemy watched all of these scenes , adjusted their tactics , and in 2006 , they struck back . In Lebanon , assassins took the life of Pierre Gemayel , a prominent participant in the Cedar Revolution . Hizballah terrorists , with support from Syria and Iran , sowed conflict in the region and are seeking to undermine Lebanon s legitimately elected government . In Afghanistan , Taliban and Al Qaeda fighters tried to regain power by regrouping and engaging Afghan and NATO forces . In Iraq , Al Qaeda and other Sunni extremists blew up one of the most sacred places in Shi a Islam , the Golden Mosque of Samarra . This atrocity , directed at a Muslim house of prayer , was designed to provoke retaliation from Iraqi Shi a , and it succeeded . Radical Shi a elements , some of whom receive support from Iran , formed death squads . The result was a tragic escalation of sectarian rage and reprisal that continues to this day . This is not the fight we entered in Iraq , but it is the fight we are in . Every one of us wishes this war were over and won . Yet it would not be like us to leave our promises unkept , our friends abandoned , and our own security at risk . Ladies and gentlemen , on this day , at this hour , it is still within our power to shape the outcome of this battle . Let us find our resolve and turn events toward victory . We are carrying out a new strategy in Iraq , a plan that demands more from Iraq s elected government and gives our forces in Iraq the reinforcements they need to complete their mission . Our goal is a democratic Iraq that upholds the rule of law , respects the rights of its people , provides them security , and is an ally in the war on terror . In order to make progress toward this goal , the Iraqi government must stop the sectarian violence in its capital . But the Iraqis are not yet ready to do this on their own . So we are deploying reinforcements of more than 20 , 000 additional soldiers and marines to Iraq . The vast majority will go to Baghdad , where they will help Iraqi forces to clear and secure neighborhoods and serve as advisers embedded in Iraqi Army units . With Iraqis in the lead , our forces will help secure the city by chasing down the terrorists , insurgents , and the roaming death squads . And in Anbar Province , where Al Qaeda terrorists have gathered and local forces have begun showing a willingness to fight them , we are sending an additional 4 , 000 United States marines , with orders to find the terrorists and clear them out . We did not drive Al Qaeda out of their safe haven in Afghanistan only to let them set up a new safe haven in a free Iraq . The people of Iraq want to live in peace , and now it is time for their government to act . Iraq s leaders know that our commitment is not open ended . They have promised to deploy more of their own troops to secure Baghdad , and they must do so . They pledged that they will confront violent radicals of any faction or political party , and they need to follow through and lift needless restrictions on Iraqi and coalition forces , so these troops can achieve their mission of bringing security to all of the people of Baghdad . Iraq s leaders have committed themselves to a series of benchmarks to achieve reconciliation to share oil revenues among all of Iraq s citizens to put the wealth of Iraq into the rebuilding of Iraq to allow more Iraqis to reenter their nation s civic life to hold local elections and to take responsibility for security in every Iraqi Province . But for all of this to happen , Baghdad must be secure , and our plan will help the Iraqi government take back its capital and make good on its commitments . My fellow citizens , our military commanders and I have carefully weighed the options . We discussed every possible approach . In the end , I chose this course of action because it provides the best chance for success . Many in this chamber understand that America must not fail in Iraq , because you understand that the consequences of failure would be grievous and far reaching . If American forces step back before Baghdad is secure , the Iraqi government would be overrun by extremists on all sides . We could expect an epic battle between Shi a extremists backed by Iran and Sunni extremists aided by Al Qaeda and supporters of the old regime . A contagion of violence could spill out across the country , and in time , the entire region could be drawn into the conflict . For America , this is a nightmare scenario for the enemy , this is the objective . Chaos is the greatest ally their greatest ally in this struggle . And out of chaos in Iraq would emerge an emboldened enemy with new safe havens , new recruits , new resources , and an even greater determination to harm America . To allow this to happen would be to ignore the lessons of September 11 and invite tragedy . Ladies and gentlemen , nothing is more important at this moment in our history than for America to succeed in the Middle East , to succeed in Iraq , and to spare the American people from this danger . This is where matters stand tonight , in the here and now . I have spoken with many of you in person . I respect you and the arguments you have made . We went into this largely united , in our assumptions and in our convictions . And whatever you voted for , you did not vote for failure . Our country is pursuing a new strategy in Iraq , and I ask you to give it a chance to work , and I ask you to support our troops in the field and those on their way . The war on terror we fight today is a generational struggle that will continue long after you and I have turned our duties over to others . And that is why it is important to work together so our nation can see this great effort through . Both parties and both branches should work in close consultation . It is why I have proposed to establish a special advisory council on the war on terror , made up of leaders in Congress from both political parties . We will share ideas for how to position America to meet every challenge that confronts us . We will show our enemies abroad that we are united in the goal of victory . And one of the first steps we can take together is to add to the ranks of our military so that the American armed forces are ready for all the challenges ahead . Tonight I ask the Congress to authorize an increase in the size of our active Army and Marine Corps by 92 , 000 in the next five years . A second task we can take on together is to design and establish a volunteer civilian reserve corps . Such a corps would function much like our military reserve . It would ease the burden on the armed forces by allowing us to hire civilians with critical skills to serve on missions abroad when America needs them . It would give people across America who do not wear the uniform a chance to serve in the defining struggle of our time . Americans can have confidence in the outcome of this struggle because we are not in this struggle alone . We have a diplomatic strategy that is rallying the world to join in the fight against extremism . In Iraq , multinational forces are operating under a mandate from the United Nations . We are working with Jordan and Saudi Arabia and Egypt and the Gulf States to increase support for Iraq s government . The United Nations has imposed sanctions on Iran and made it clear that the world will not allow the regime in Tehran to acquire nuclear weapons . With the other members of the Quartet the N . , the Eand Russia we are pursuing diplomacy to help bring peace to the Holy Land and pursuing the establishment of a democratic Palestinian state living side by side with Israel in peace and security . In Afghanistan , NATO has taken the lead in turning back the Taliban and Al Qaeda offensive the first time the Alliance has deployed forces outside the North Atlantic area . Together with our partners in China and Japan , Russia and South Korea , we are pursuing intensive diplomacy to achieve a Korean Peninsula free of nuclear weapons . We will continue to speak out for the cause of freedom in places like Cuba , Belarus , and Burma , and continue to awaken the conscience of the world to save the people of Darfur . American foreign policy is more than a matter of war and diplomacy . Our work in the world is also based on a timeless truth To whom much is given , much is required . We hear the call to take on the challenges of hunger and poverty and disease , and that is precisely what America is doing . We must continue to fight HIV AIDespecially on the continent of Africa . Because you funded the Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief , the number of people receiving lifesaving drugs has grown from 50 , 000 to more than 800 , 000 in three short years . I ask you to continue funding our efforts to fight HIV AIDAnd I ask you to provide 1 . 2 billion over five years so we can combat malaria in 15 African countries . I ask that you fund the Millennium Challenge Account , so that American aid reaches the people who need it , in nations where democracy is on the rise and corruption is in retreat . And let us continue to support the expanded trade and debt relief that are the best hope for lifting lives and eliminating poverty . When America serves others in this way , we show the strength and generosity of our country . These deeds reflect the character of our people . The greatest strength we have is the heroic kindness and courage and self sacrifice of the American people . You see this spirit often if you know where to look , and tonight we need only look above to the gallery . Dikembe Mutombo grew up in Africa amid great poverty and disease . He came to Georgetown University on a scholarship to study medicine , but Coach John Thompson took a look at Dikembe and had a different idea . Dikembe became a star in the NBA and a citizen of the United States , but he never forgot the land of his birth or the duty to share his blessings with others . He built a brand new hospital in his old hometown . A friend has said of this good hearted man Mutombo believes that God has given him this opportunity to do great things . And we are proud to call this son of the Congo a citizen of the United States of America . After her daughter was born , Julie Aigner Clark searched for ways to share her love of music and art with her child . So she borrowed some equipment and began filming children s videos in her basement . The Baby Einstein Company was born , and in just five years , her business grew to more than 20 million in sales . In November 2001 , Julie sold Baby Einstein to Walt Disney Company , and with her help , Baby Einstein has grown into a 200 million business . Julie represents the great enterprising spirit of America . And she is using her success to help others producing child safety videos with John Walsh of the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children . Julie says of her new project I believe it is the most important thing I have ever done . I believe that children have the right to live in a world that is safe . And so tonight we are pleased to welcome this talented business entrepreneur and generous social entrepreneur , Julie Aigner Clark . Three weeks ago , Wesley Autrey was waiting at a Harlem subway station with his two little girls when he saw a man fall into the path of a train . With seconds to act , Wesley jumped onto the tracks , pulled the man into the space between the rails , and held him as the train passed right above their heads . He insists he is not a hero . He says We got guys and girls overseas dying for us to have our freedoms . We have got to show each other some love . There is something wonderful about a country that produces a brave and humble man like Wesley Autrey . Tommy Rieman was a teenager pumping gas in Independence , Kentucky , when he enlisted in the United States Army . In December 2003 , he was on a reconnaissance mission in Iraq when his team came under heavy enemy fire . From his Humvee , Sergeant Rieman returned fire . He used his body as a shield to protect his gunner . He was shot in the chest and arm and received shrapnel wounds to his legs , yet he refused medical attention and stayed in the fight . He helped to repel a second attack , firing grenades at the enemy s position . For his exceptional courage , Sergeant Rieman was awarded the Silver Star . And like so many other Americans who have volunteered to defend us , he has earned the respect and the gratitude of our entire country . In such courage and compassion , ladies and gentlemen , we see the spirit and character of America . And these qualities are not in short supply . This is a decent and honorable country and resilient too . We have been through a lot together . We have met challenges and faced dangers , and we know that more lie ahead . Yet we can go forward with confidence , because the State of our Union is strong , our cause in the world is right , and tonight that cause goes on . God bless . See you next year . Thank you for your prayers .<speech_sep>Well , thank you all very much for that warm welcome . General Meyer , thank you . General Bunting and General Casey , Secretary Marsh , Congressman Goodlatte , Albert Beveridge , members of the Corps of Cadets , distinguished guests , ladies and gentlemen . I want to thank you for your warm welcome and thank you for inviting me to one of America s great institutions . I brought along a little graduation present . I am sure you will like it some of you will need it . As Commander in Chief , I hereby grant amnesty . General Bunting , I am sure you can tell who needed it . And I know you will be generous in the interpretation of this doctrine . I want to congratulate the winners of the George Marshall ROTC Award . The more than 260 young men and women who represent the winners represent the best of our country and the best future for the United States Army . You stand out among the nearly 30 , 000 young Americans who are today enrolled in the Army ROTthe officers who will serve in the military of the future , and one day will lead it . A majority of the Army s current officers started out in the ROTFor nearly 90 years , this great program has developed leaders and shaped character . Those looking for idealism on the college campuses of America will find it in the men and women of the ROTROTC s traditions and values are a contribution and a credit to every college and every university where they are found . Secretary of State Colin Powell was in the ROTC at City College of New York , an experience that helped set the course of his life . In his own words , he said this , The order , the self discipline , the pride that had been instilled in me by our ROTC prepared me well for my Army career or , for that matter , any career I might have chosen . Colin Powell s career has taken him from service in Vietnam to the top rank in the military , and now on a peace mission to the Middle East . America is fortunate and I am proud to have ROTC graduate Colin Powell serving our country . Only one other Army general has gone on to serve as Secretary of State , and that was George Marshall , himself VMI s highest ranking cadet in the class of 1901 . As Army Chief of Staff , General Marshall became the architect of America s victory in the second world war . He fought tenaciously against our enemies , and then worked just as hard to secure the peace . President Truman considered George Marshall the greatest man he knew . Above all , said Winston Churchill , Marshall always fought victoriously against defeatism , discouragement and disillusionment . The key to morale and to victory , Marshall said , is steadfastness and courage and hope . And , today , we are called to defend freedom against ruthless enemies . And , once again , we need steadfastness , courage and hope . The war against terror will be long . And as George Marshall so clearly understood , it will not be enough to make the world safer . We must also work to make the world better . In the days just after September the 11th , I told the American people that this would be a different war , fought on many fronts . Today , around the world , we make progress on the many fronts . In some cases , we use military force . In others , we are fighting through diplomacy , financial pressure , or special operations . In every case , we will defeat the threats against our country and the civilized world . Our progress our progress is measured day by day , terrorist by terrorist . We recently apprehended one of al Qaeda s top leaders , a man named Abu Zabaydah . He was spending a lot of time as one of the top operating officials of al Qaeda , plotting and planning murder . He is not plotting and he is not planning anymore . He is under lock and key , and we are going to give him some company . We are hunting down the killers one by one . We are learning a lot about al Qaeda operations and their plans . As our enemies have fled their hideouts in Afghanistan , they left some things behind . We found laptop computers , drawings and maps . And through them , we are gaining a clearer picture of the terrorist targets and their methods . Our international coalition against these killers is strong and united and acting . European nations have frozen almost 50 million in suspected terrorist assets , and that is important . Many European states are taking aggressive and effective law enforcement action to join us in rounding up these terrorists and their cells . We are making good progress . Yet , it is important for Americans to know this war will not be quick and this war will not be easy . The first phase of our military operation was in Afghanistan , where our armed forces continue to perform with bravery and with skill . You have got to understand that as we routed out the Taliban , they were not sent in to conquer they were sent in to liberate . And they succeeded . And our military makes us proud . The battles in Afghanistan are not over . American and allied troops are taking risks today in what we call Operation Mountain Lion hunting down the al Qaeda and Taliban forces , and keeping them on the run . Coalition naval forces , in the largest combined flotilla since World War Iare patrolling escape routes and intercepting ships to search for terrorists and their supplies . As the spring thaw comes , we expect cells of trained killers to try to regroup , to murder , create mayhem and try to undermine Afghanistan s efforts to build a lasting peace . We know this from not only intelligence , but from the history of military conflict in Afghanistan . It is been one of initial success , followed by long years of floundering and ultimate failure . We are not going to repeat that mistake . In the United States of America , the terrorists have chosen a foe unlike they have any they have never faced before . They have never faced a country like ours before we are tough , we are determined , we are relentless . We will stay until the mission is done . We know that true peace will only be achieved when we give the Afghan people the means to achieve their own aspirations . Peace peace will be achieved by helping Afghanistan develop its own stable government . Peace will be achieved by helping Afghanistan train and develop its own national army . And peace will be achieved through an education system for boys and girls which works . We are working hard in Afghanistan . We are clearing minefields . We are rebuilding roads . We are improving medical care . And we will work to help Afghanistan to develop an economy that can feed its people without feeding the world s demand for drugs . And we help the Afghan people recover from the Taliban rule . And as we do so , we find mounting horror , evidence of horror . In the Hazarajat region , the Red Cross has found signs of massacres committed by the Taliban last year , victims who lie in mass graves . This is the legacy of the first regime to fall in the war against terror . These mass graves are a reminder of the kind of enemy we have fought and have defeated . And they are the kind of evil we continue to fight . By helping to build an Afghanistan that is free from this evil and is a better place in which to live , we are working in the best traditions of George Marshall . Marshall knew that our military victory against enemies in World War II had to be followed by a moral victory that resulted in better lives for individual human beings . After 1945 , the United States of America was the only nation in the world strong enough to help rebuild a Europe and a Japan that had been decimated by World War IToday , our former enemies are our friends . And Europe and Japan are strong partners in the rebuilding of Afghanistan . This transformation is a powerful testimony to the success of Marshall s vision , and a beacon to light the path that we , too , must follow . In the second phase of the war on terror , our military and law enforcement intelligence officers are helping countries around the world in their efforts to crack down on terror within their borders . Global terrorism will be defeated only by global response . We must prevent al Qaeda from moving its operations to other countries . We must deny terrorists the funds they need to operate . We must deny them safe havens to plan new horrors and indoctrinate new recruits . We are working with Yemen s government to prevent terrorists from reassembling there . We sent troops to help train local forces in the Philippines , to help them defeat terrorists trying to establish a militant regime . And in the Republic of Georgia , we provide temporary help to its military , as it routes out a terrorist cell near the Russian border . Wherever global terror threatens the civilized world , we and our friends and our allies will respond and will respond decisively . Every nation that joins our cause is welcome . Every nation that needs our help will have it . And no nation can be neutral . Around the world , the nations must choose . They are with us , or they are with the terrorists . And in the Middle East , where acts of terror have triggered mounting violence , all parties have a choice to make . Every leader , every state must choose between two separate paths the path of peace or the path of terror . In the stricken faces of mothers , Palestinian mothers and Israeli mothers , the entire world is witnessing the agonizing cost of this conflict . Now , every nation and every leader in the region must work to end terror . All parties have responsibilities . These responsibilities are not easy , but they are clear . And Secretary of State Powell is helping make them clear . I want to thank Secretary Powell for his hard work at a difficult task . He returns home having made progress towards peace . We are confronting hatred that is centuries old , disputes that have lingered for decades . But I want you to know , I will continue to lead toward a vision of peace . We will continue to remind folks they have responsibilities in the short run to defuse the current crisis . The Palestinian Authority must act , must act on its words of condemnation against terror . Israel must continue its withdrawals . And all Arab states must step up to their responsibilities . The Egyptians and Jordanians and Saudis have helped in the wider war on terrorism . And they must help confront terrorism in the Middle East . All parties have a responsibility to stop funding or inciting terror . And all parties must say clearly that a murderer is not a martyr he or she is just a murderer . And all parties must realize that the only vision for a long term solution is for two states Israel , Palestine to live side by side in security and in peace . That will require hard choices and leadership by Israelis , Palestinians , and their Arab neighbors . The time is now for all to make the choice for peace . And , finally , the civilized world faces a grave threat from weapons of mass destruction . A small number of outlaw regimes today possess and are developing chemical and biological and nuclear weapons . They are building missiles to deliver them , and at the same time cultivating ties to terrorist groups . In their threat to peace , in their mad ambitions , in their destructive potential and in the repression of their own people , these regimes constitute an axis of evil and the world must confront them . America , along with other nations , will oppose the proliferation of dangerous weapons and technologies . We will proceed with missile defenses to protect the American people , our troops and our friends and allies . And America will take the necessary action to oppose emerging threats . We will be deliberate and we will work with our friends and allies . And , as we do so , we will uphold our duty to defend freedom . We will fight against terrorist organizations in different ways , with different tactics , in different places . And we will fight the threat from weapons of mass destruction in different ways , with different tactics , in different places . Yet , our objective is always the same we will defeat global terror , and we will not allow the world s most dangerous regimes to threaten us with the world s most dangerous weapons . America has a much greater purpose than just eliminating threats and containing resentment , because we believe in the dignity and value of every individual . America seeks hope and opportunity for all people in all cultures . And that is why we are helping to rebuild Afghanistan . And that is why we have launched a new compact for development for the Millennium Challenge Account . And that is why we work for free trade , to lift people out of poverty throughout the world . A better world can seem very distant when children are sent to kill other children , and old hatreds are stoked and carefully passed from one generation to another , and a violent few love death more than life . Yet hatred , fanaticism are not the way of the future , because the hopes of humanity are always stronger than its hatreds . And these hopes are universal in every country and in every country in every culture . Men and women everywhere want to live in dignity to create and build and own , to raise their children in peace and security . The way to a peaceful future can be found in the non negotiable demands of human dignity . Dignity requires the rule of law , limits on the power of the state , respect for women , private property , equal justice , religious tolerance . No nation owns these principles . No nation is exempt from them . Sixty years ago , few would have predicted the triumph of these values in Germany and Japan . Fifteen years ago , few would have predicted the advance of these values in Russia . Yet , Americans are not surprised . We know that the demands of human dignity are written in every heart . The demands have a power and momentum of their own , defying all pessimism . And they are destined to change lives and nations on every continent . America has acted on these hopes throughout our history . General George Marshall is admired for the war he fought , yet best remembered for the peace he secured . The Marshall Plan , rebuilding Europe and lifting up former enemies , showed that America is not content with military victory alone . Americans always see a greater hope and a better day . And America sees a just and hopeful world beyond the war on terror . Many of you will help achieve this better world . At a young age , you have taken up a great calling . You will serve your country and our values . You will protect your fellow citizens . And , by your effort and example , you will advance the cause of freedom around the world . And so I am here to thank you for your commitment and congratulate you on the high honor you have received . May God bless you all , and may God bless America .<speech_sep>Thank you all . Deputy Secretary England , thanks for the introduction . One boss may not be here , but the other one is . I appreciate your kind words . I am pleased to be back here with the men and women of the Defense Department . On this day in 2003 , the United States began Operation Iraqi Freedom . As the campaign unfolded , tens and thousands of our troops poured across the Iraqi border to liberate the Iraqi people and remove a regime that threatened free nations . Five years into this battle , there is an understandable debate over whether the war was worth fighting whether the fight is worth winning and whether we can win it . The answers are clear to me Removing Saddam Hussein from power was the right decision , and this is a fight America can and must win . The men and women who crossed into Iraq 5 years ago removed a tyrant , liberated a country , and rescued millions from unspeakable horrors . Some of those troops are with us today , and you need to know that the American people are proud of your accomplishment , and so is the Commander in Chief . I appreciate Admiral Mullen , the Joint Chiefs who are here . Thanks for coming . Secretary Donald Winter of the Navy Deputy Secretary of State John Negroponte is with us . Admiral Thad Allen of the Coast Guard is with us . Ambassador from Iraq is with us Ambassador , we are proud to have you here . Soldiers , sailors , marines , airmen , and coast men coast guard men , thanks for coming thanks for wearing the uniform . Men and women of the Department of State are here as well . Operation Iraqi Freedom was a remarkable display of military effectiveness . Forces from the UAustralia , Poland , and other allies joined our troops in the initial operations . As they advanced , our troops fought their way through sandstorms so intense that they blackened the daytime sky . Our troops engaged in pitched battles with Fedayeen Saddam , death squads acting on the orders of Saddam Hussein , that obeyed neither the conventions of war nor the dictates of conscience . These death squads hid in schools , and they hid in hospitals , hoping to draw fire against Iraqi civilians . They used women and children as human shields . They stopped at nothing in their efforts to prevent us from prevailing , but they could not stop the coalition advance . Aided by the most effective and precise air campaign in history , coalition forces raced across 350 miles of enemy territory , destroying Republican Guard divisions , pushing through the Karbala Gap , capturing Saddam International Airport , and liberating Baghdad in less than 1 month . Along the way , our troops added new chapters to the story of American military heroism . During these first weeks of battle , Army Sergeant First Class Paul Ray Smith and his troops came under a surprise attack by about a hundred Republican Guard forces . Sergeant Smith rallied his men . He led a counterattack , killing as many as 50 enemy soldiers before being fatally wounded . His actions saved the lives of more than a hundred American troops and earned him the Medal of Honor . Today , in light of the challenges we have faced in Iraq , some look back at this period as the easy part of the war . Yet there was nothing easy about it . The liberation of Iraq took incredible skill and amazing courage . And the speed , precision , and brilliant execution of the campaign will be studied by military historians for years to come . What our troops found in Iraq following Saddam s removal was horrifying . They uncovered children s prisons and torture chambers and rape rooms where Iraqi women were violated in front of their families . They found videos showing regime thugs mutilating Iraqis deemed disloyal to Saddam . And across the Iraqi countryside , they uncovered mass graves of thousands executed by the regime . Because we acted , Saddam Hussein no longer fills fields with the remains of innocent men , women , and children . Because we acted , Saddam s torture chambers and rape rooms and children s prisons have been closed for good . Because we acted , Saddam s regime is no longer invading its neighbors or attacking them with chemical weapons and ballistic missiles . Because we acted , Saddam s regime is no longer paying the families of suicide bombers in the Holy Land . Because we acted , Saddam s regime is no longer shooting at American and British aircraft patrolling the no fly zones and defying the will of the United Nations . Because we acted , the world is better and United States of America is safer . When the Iraqi regime was removed , it did not lay down its arms and surrender . Instead , former regime elements took off their uniforms and faded into the countryside to fight the emergence of a free Iraq . And then they were joined by foreign terrorists who were seeking to stop the advance of liberty in the Middle East and seeking to establish safe havens from which to plot new attacks across the world . The battle in Iraq has been longer and harder and more costly than we anticipated , but it is a fight we must win . So our troops have engaged these enemies with courage and determination . And as they have battled the terrorists and extremists in Iraq , they have helped the Iraqi people reclaim their nation and helped a young democracy rise from the rubble of Saddam Hussein s tyranny . Over the past 5 years , we have seen moments of triumph and moments of tragedy . We have watched in admiration as 12 million Iraqis defied the terrorists and went to the polls and chose their leaders in free elections . We watched in horror as Al Qaida beheaded innocent captives and sent suicide bombers to blow up mosques and markets . These actions show the brutal nature of the enemy in Iraq , and they serve as a grim reminder . The terrorists who murder the innocent in the streets of Baghdad want to murder the innocent in the streets of America . Defeating this enemy in Iraq will make it less likely that we will face the enemy here at home . A little over a year ago , the fight in Iraq was faltering . Extremist elements were succeeding in their efforts to plunge Iraq into chaos . They had established safe havens in many parts of the country . They were creating divisions among the Iraqis along sectarian lines . And their strategy of using violence in Iraq to cause divisions in America was working as pressures built here in Washington for withdrawal before the job was done . My administration understood that America could not retreat in the face of terror . And we knew that if we did not act , the violence that had been consuming Iraq would worsen and spread and could eventually reach genocidal levels . Baghdad could have disintegrated into a contagion of killing , and Iraq could have descended into full blown sectarian warfare . So we reviewed the strategy and changed course in Iraq . We sent reinforcements into the country in a dramatic policy shift that is now known as the surge . General David Petraeus took command with a new mission Work with Iraqi forces to protect the Iraqi people pressure the enemy into strongholds and deny the terrorists sanctuary anywhere in the country . And that is precisely what we have done . In Anbar , Sunni tribal leaders had grown tired of Al Qaida s brutality and started a popular uprising called the Anbar Awakening . To take advantage of this opportunity , we sent 4 , 000 additional marines to help these brave Iraqis drive Al Qaida from the Province . As this effort succeeded , it inspired other Iraqis to take up the fight . Soon similar uprisings began to spread across the country . Today , there are more than 90 , 000 concerned local citizens who are protecting their communities from the terrorists and insurgents and the extremists . The Government in Baghdad has stepped forward with a surge of its own they have added more than 100 , 000 new Iraqi soldiers and police during the past year . These Iraqi troops have fought bravely , and thousands have given their lives in this struggle . Together , these Americans and Iraqi forces have driven the terrorists from many of the sanctuaries they once held . Now the terrorists have gathered in and around the northern Iraqi city of Mosul , and Iraqi and American forces are relentlessly pursuing them . There will be tough fighting in Mosul and areas of northern Iraq in the weeks ahead . But there is no doubt in my mind , because of the courage of our troops and the bravery of the Iraqis , the Al Qaida terrorists in this region will suffer the same fate as Al Qaida suffered elsewhere in Iraq . As we have fought Al Qaida , coalition and Iraqi forces have also taken the fight to Shi a extremist groups , many of them backed and financed and armed by Iran . A year ago , these groups were on the rise . Today , they are increasingly isolated , and Iraqis of all faiths are putting their lives on the line to stop these extremists from hijacking their young democracy . To ensure that military progress in Iraq is quickly followed up with real improvements in daily life , we have doubled the number of Provincial Reconstruction Teams in Iraq . These teams of civilian experts are serving all Iraqi 18 Iraqi Provinces , and they are helping to strengthen responsible leaders and build up local economies and bring Iraqis together , so that reconciliation can happen from the ground up . They are very effective . They are helping give ordinary Iraqis confidence that by rejecting the extremists and reconciling with one another , they can claim their place in a free Iraq and build better lives for their families . There is still hard work to be done in Iraq . The gains we have made are fragile and reversible . But on this anniversary , the American people should know that since the surge began , the level of violence is significantly down , civilian deaths are down , sectarian killings are down , attacks on American forces are down . We have captured or killed thousands of extremists in Iraq , including hundreds of key Al Qaida leaders and operatives . Our men and women in uniform are performing with characteristic honor and valor . The surge is working . And as a return on our success in Iraq , we have begun bringing some of our troops home . The surge has done more than turn the situation in Iraq around , it has opened the door to a major strategic victory in the broader war on terror . For the terrorists , Iraq was supposed to be the place where Al Qaida rallied Arab masses to drive America out . Instead , Iraq has become the place where Arabs joined with Americans to drive Al Qaida out . In Iraq , we are witnessing the first large scale Arab uprising against Osama bin Laden , his grim ideology , and his murderous network . And the significance of this development cannot be overstated . The terrorist movement feeds on a sense of inevitability and claims to rise on the tide of history . The accomplishments of the surge in Iraq are exposing this myth and discrediting the extremists . When Iraqi and American forces finish the job , the effects will reverberate far beyond Iraq s borders . Usama bin Laden once said When people see a strong horse and a weak horse , by nature they will like the strong horse . By defeating Al Qaida in Iraq , we will show the world that Al Qaida is the weak horse . We will show that men and women who love liberty can defeat the terrorists . And we will show that the future of the Middle East does not belong to terror . The future of the Middle East belongs to freedom . The challenge in this period ahead is to consolidate the gains we have made and seal the extremists defeat . We have learned through hard experience what happens when we pull our forces back too fast the terrorists and extremists step in , they fill vacuums , establish safe havens , and use them to spread chaos and carnage . General Petraeus has warned that too fast a drawdown could result in such an unraveling with Al Qaida and insurgents and militia extremists regaining lost ground and increasing violence . Men and women of the Armed Forces Having come so far and achieved so much , we are not going to let this to happen . Next month , General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker will come to Washington to testify before Congress . I will await their recommendations before making decisions on our troop levels in Iraq . Any further drawdown will be based on conditions on the ground and the recommendations of our commanders . And they must not jeopardize the hard fought gains our troops and civilians have made over the past year . Successes we are seeing in Iraq are undeniable , yet some in Washington still call for retreat . War critics can no longer credibly argue that we are losing in Iraq , so they now argue the war costs too much . In recent months , we have heard exaggerated amounts of the costs of this war . No one are would argue that this war has not come at a high cost in lives and treasure but those costs are necessary when we consider the cost of a strategic victory for our enemies in Iraq . If we were to allow our enemies to prevail in Iraq , the violence that is now declining would accelerate , and Iraq would descend into chaos . Al Qaida would regain its lost sanctuaries and establish new ones , fomenting violence and terror that could spread beyond Iraq s borders , with serious consequences for the world s economy . Out of such chaos in Iraq , the terrorist movement could emerge emboldened , with new recruits , new resources , and an even greater determination to dominate the region and harm America . An emboldened Al Qaida with access to Iraq s oil resources could pursue its ambitions to acquire weapons of mass destruction to attack America and other free nations . Iran would be emboldened as well , with a renewed determination to develop nuclear weapons and impose its brand of hegemony across the Middle East . Our enemies would see an America an American failure in Iraq as evidence of weakness and a lack of resolve . To allow this to happen would be to ignore the lessons of September the 11th and make it more likely that America would suffer another attack like the one we experienced that day a day in which 19 armed men with box cutters killed nearly 3 , 000 people in our on our soil a day after which , in the following of that attack , more than a million Americans lost work , lost their jobs . The terrorists intend even greater harm to our country . And we have no greater responsibility than to defeat our enemies across the world so that they cannot carry out such an attack . As our coalition fights the enemy in Iraq , we have stayed on the offensive on other fronts in the war on terror . You know , just a few weeks after commencing Operation Iraqi Freedom , forces captured Khalid Sheikh Mohammed , the mastermind behind the September the 11th terrorist attacks we got him in Pakistan . About the same time as we launched Operation Iraqi Freedom , coalition forces thousands of hundreds of miles away launched an assault on the terrorists in the mountains of southern Afghanistan in an operation called Operation Valiant Strike . Throughout the war on terror , we have brought the enemy we have fought the enemy on every single battlefront . And so long as terrorist danger remains , the United States of America will continue to fight the enemy wherever it makes its stand . We will stay on the offense . But in the long run , defeating the terrorists requires an alternative to their murderous ideology . And there we have another advantage . We have got a singular advantage with our military when it comes to finding the terrorists and bringing them to justice . And we have another advantage in our strong belief in the transformative power of liberty . So we are helping the people of Iraq establish a democracy in the heart of the Middle East . A free Iraq will fight terrorists instead of harboring them . A free Iraq will be an example for others of the power of liberty to change the societies and to displace despair with hope . By spreading the hope of liberty in the Middle East , we will help free societies take root . And when they do , freedom will yield the peace that we all desire . Our troops on the frontlines understand what is at stake . They know that the mission in Iraq has been difficult and has been trying for our Nation , because they are the ones who have carried most of the burdens . They are all volunteers who have stepped forward to defend America in a time of danger . Some of them have gone out of their way to return to the fight . One of these brave Americans is a Marine Gunnery Sergeant named William Spanky Gibson . In May of 2006 in Ramadi , a terrorist sniper s bullet ripped through his left knee doctors then amputated his leg . After months of difficult rehabilitation , Spanky was not only walking , he was training for triathlons . Last year , at the Escape from Alcatraz swim near San Francisco , he met Marine General James Mattis , who asked if there is anything he could do for him . Spanky had just one request He asked to redeploy to Iraq . Today , he is serving in Fallujah , the first full leg amputee to return to the frontlines . Here s what he says about his decision to return The Iraqis where are where we were 232 years ago as a nation . Now they are starting a new nation , and that is one of my big reasons for coming back here . I wanted to tell the people of this country that I am back to help wherever I can . When Americans like Spanky Gibson serve on our side , the enemy in Iraq does not got a chance . We are grateful to all the brave men and women of our military who have served the cause of freedom . You have done the hard work , far from home and far from your loved ones . We give thanks for all our military families who love you and have supported you in this mission . We appreciate the fine civilians from many Departments who serve alongside you . Many of you served in Iraq and Afghanistan , and some have been on these fronts several times . You will never forget the people who fought at your side . You will always remember the comrades who served with you in combat but did not make the journey home . America remembers them as well . More than 4 , 400 men and women have given their lives in the war on terror . We will pray for their families . We will always honor their memory . The best way we can honor them is by making sure that their sacrifice was not in vain . Five years ago tonight , I promised the American people that in the struggle ahead , we will accept no outcome but victory . Today , standing before men and women who helped liberate a nation , I reaffirm the commitment . The battle in Iraq is noble it is necessary and it is just . And with your courage , the battle in Iraq will end in victory . God bless .<speech_sep>A short time ago , the House of Representatives passed a bill that is essential to helping America s economy weather the financial crisis . The Senate passed the same legislation on Wednesday night . And when Congress sends me the final bill , I am going to sign it into law . There were moments this week when some thought the federal government could not rise to the challenge . But thanks to the hard work of members of both parties in both Houses and a spirit of cooperation between Capitol Hill and my administration we completed this bill in a timely manner . I am especially grateful for the contributions of Speaker Nancy Pelosi , Minority Leader John Boehner , Majority Leader Steny Hoyer , Minority Whip Roy Blunt , Chairman Barney Frank , Ranking Member Spencer Bachus . By coming together on this legislation , we have acted boldly to help prevent the crisis on Wall Street from becoming a crisis in communities across our country . We have shown the world that the United States of America will stabilize our financial markets and maintain a leading role in the global economy . A major problem in our financial system is that banks have restricted the flow of credit to businesses and consumers many of the assets these banks are holding have lost value . The legislation Congress passed today addresses this problem head on by providing a variety of new tools to the government such as allowing us to purchase some of the troubled assets , and creating a new government insurance program that will guarantee the value of others . The bill also ensures that these new programs are carried out in a way that protects taxpayers . It prevents failed executives from receiving windfalls from taxpayers dollars . It establishes a bipartisan board to oversee the plan s implementation . Taken together , these steps represent decisive action to ease the credit crunch that is now threatening our economy . With a smoother flow of credit , more businesses will be able to stock their shelves and meet their payrolls . More families will be able to get loans for cars and homes and college education . More state and local governments will be able to fund basic services . The bill includes other provisions to help American consumers and businesses . It includes tax incentives for businesses to invest and create jobs . It temporarily expands federal insurance for bank and credit union deposits from 100 , 000 to 250 , 000 a vital safeguard for consumers and small businesses . It provides families with relief from the Alternative Minimum Tax , which would otherwise increase taxes for 26 million taxpayers by an average of 2 , 200 . I know some Americans have concerns about this legislation , especially about the government s role and the bill s cost . As a strong supporter of free enterprise , I believe government intervention should occur only when necessary . In this situation , action is clearly necessary . And ultimately , the cost ultimately , the cost to taxpayers will be far less than the initial outlay . See , the government will purchase troubled assets and once the market recovers , it is likely that many of the assets will go up in value . And over time , Americans should expect that much if not all of the tax dollars we invest will be paid back . Americans should also expect that it will take some time for this legislation to have its full impact on our economy . Exercising the authorities in this bill in a responsible way will require a careful analysis and deliberation . This will be done as expeditiously as possible , but it cannot be accomplished overnight . We will take the time necessary to design an effective program that achieves its objectives and does not waste taxpayer dollars . Our economy continues to face serious challenges . This morning , we learned that America lost jobs again in September disappointing news that underscores the urgency of the bill that Congress passed today . It will take more time and determined effort to get through this difficult period . But with confidence and leadership and bipartisan cooperation , we will overcome the challenges we face , return our nation to a path of growth , and job creation , and long term economic prosperity . Thank you .<speech_sep>Vice President Cheney , Chief Justice , President Carter , President Bush , President Clinton , reverend clergy , distinguished guests , fellow citizens On this day , prescribed by law and marked by ceremony , we celebrate the durable wisdom of our Constitution , and recall the deep commitments that unite our country . I am grateful for the honor of this hour , mindful of the consequential times in which we live , and determined to fulfill the oath that I have sworn and you have witnessed . At this second gathering , our duties are defined not by the words I use , but by the history we have seen together . For a half century , America defended our own freedom by standing watch on distant borders . After the shipwreck of communism came years of relative quiet , years of repose , years of sabbatical and then there came a day of fire . We have seen our vulnerability and we have seen its deepest source . For as long as whole regions of the world simmer in resentment and tyranny prone to ideologies that feed hatred and excuse murder violence will gather , and multiply in destructive power , and cross the most defended borders , and raise a mortal threat . There is only one force of history that can break the reign of hatred and resentment , and expose the pretensions of tyrants , and reward the hopes of the decent and tolerant , and that is the force of human freedom . We are led , by events and common sense , to one conclusion The survival of liberty in our land increasingly depends on the success of liberty in other lands . The best hope for peace in our world is the expansion of freedom in all the world . America s vital interests and our deepest beliefs are now one . From the day of our Founding , we have proclaimed that every man and woman on this earth has rights , and dignity , and matchless value , because they bear the image of the Maker of Heaven and earth . Across the generations we have proclaimed the imperative of self government , because no one is fit to be a master , and no one deserves to be a slave . Advancing these ideals is the mission that created our Nation . It is the honorable achievement of our fathers . Now it is the urgent requirement of our nation s security , and the calling of our time . So it is the policy of the United States to seek and support the growth of democratic movements and institutions in every nation and culture , with the ultimate goal of ending tyranny in our world . This is not primarily the task of arms , though we will defend ourselves and our friends by force of arms when necessary . Freedom , by its nature , must be chosen , and defended by citizens , and sustained by the rule of law and the protection of minorities . And when the soul of a nation finally speaks , the institutions that arise may reflect customs and traditions very different from our own . America will not impose our own style of government on the unwilling . Our goal instead is to help others find their own voice , attain their own freedom , and make their own way . The great objective of ending tyranny is the concentrated work of generations . The difficulty of the task is no excuse for avoiding it . America s influence is not unlimited , but fortunately for the oppressed , America s influence is considerable , and we will use it confidently in freedom s cause . My most solemn duty is to protect this nation and its people against further attacks and emerging threats . Some have unwisely chosen to test America s resolve , and have found it firm . We will persistently clarify the choice before every ruler and every nation The moral choice between oppression , which is always wrong , and freedom , which is eternally right . America will not pretend that jailed dissidents prefer their chains , or that women welcome humiliation and servitude , or that any human being aspires to live at the mercy of bullies . We will encourage reform in other governments by making clear that success in our relations will require the decent treatment of their own people . America s belief in human dignity will guide our policies , yet rights must be more than the grudging concessions of dictators they are secured by free dissent and the participation of the governed . In the long run , there is no justice without freedom , and there can be no human rights without human liberty . Some , I know , have questioned the global appeal of liberty though this time in history , four decades defined by the swiftest advance of freedom ever seen , is an odd time for doubt . Americans , of all people , should never be surprised by the power of our ideals . Eventually , the call of freedom comes to every mind and every soul . We do not accept the existence of permanent tyranny because we do not accept the possibility of permanent slavery . Liberty will come to those who love it . Today , America speaks anew to the peoples of the world All who live in tyranny and hopelessness can know the United States will not ignore your oppression , or excuse your oppressors . When you stand for your liberty , we will stand with you . Democratic reformers facing repression , prison , or exile can know America sees you for who you are the future leaders of your free country . The rulers of outlaw regimes can know that we still believe as Abraham Lincoln did Those who deny freedom to others deserve it not for themselves and , under the rule of a just God , cannot long retain it . The leaders of governments with long habits of control need to know To serve your people you must learn to trust them . Start on this journey of progress and justice , and America will walk at your side . And all the allies of the United States can know we honor your friendship , we rely on your counsel , and we depend on your help . Division among free nations is a primary goal of freedom s enemies . The concerted effort of free nations to promote democracy is a prelude to our enemies defeat . Today , I also speak anew to my fellow citizens From all of you , I have asked patience in the hard task of securing America , which you have granted in good measure . Our country has accepted obligations that are difficult to fulfill , and would be dishonorable to abandon . Yet because we have acted in the great liberating tradition of this nation , tens of millions have achieved their freedom . And as hope kindles hope , millions more will find it . By our efforts , we have lit a fire as well a fire in the minds of men . It warms those who feel its power , it burns those who fight its progress , and one day this untamed fire of freedom will reach the darkest corners of our world . A few Americans have accepted the hardest duties in this cause in the quiet work of intelligence and diplomacy . . . the idealistic work of helping raise up free governments . . . the dangerous and necessary work of fighting our enemies . Some have shown their devotion to our country in deaths that honored their whole lives and we will always honor their names and their sacrifice . All Americans have witnessed this idealism , and some for the first time . I ask our youngest citizens to believe the evidence of your eyes . You have seen duty and allegiance in the determined faces of our soldiers . You have seen that life is fragile , and evil is real , and courage triumphs . Make the choice to serve in a cause larger than your wants , larger than yourself and in your days you will add not just to the wealth of our country , but to its character . America has need of idealism and courage , because we have essential work at home the unfinished work of American freedom . In a world moving toward liberty , we are determined to show the meaning and promise of liberty . In America s ideal of freedom , citizens find the dignity and security of economic independence , instead of laboring on the edge of subsistence . This is the broader definition of liberty that motivated the Homestead Act , the Social Security Act , and the Bill of Rights . And now we will extend this vision by reforming great institutions to serve the needs of our time . To give every American a stake in the promise and future of our country , we will bring the highest standards to our schools , and build an ownership society . We will widen the ownership of homes and businesses , retirement savings and health insurance preparing our people for the challenges of life in a free society . By making every citizen an agent of his or her own destiny , we will give our fellow Americans greater freedom from want and fear , and make our society more prosperous and just and equal . In America s ideal of freedom , the public interest depends on private character on integrity , and tolerance toward others , and the rule of conscience in our own lives . Self government relies , in the end , on the governing of the self . That edifice of character is built in families , supported by communities with standards , and sustained in our national life by the truths of Sinai , the Sermon on the Mount , the words of the Koran , and the varied faiths of our people . Americans move forward in every generation by reaffirming all that is good and true that came before ideals of justice and conduct that are the same yesterday , today , and forever . In America s ideal of freedom , the exercise of rights is ennobled by service , and mercy , and a heart for the weak . Liberty for all does not mean independence from one another . Our nation relies on men and women who look after a neighbor and surround the lost with love . Americans , at our best , value the life we see in one another , and must always remember that even the unwanted have worth . And our country must abandon all the habits of racism , because we cannot carry the message of freedom and the baggage of bigotry at the same time . From the perspective of a single day , including this day of dedication , the issues and questions before our country are many . From the viewpoint of centuries , the questions that come to us are narrowed and few . Did our generation advance the cause of freedom And did our character bring credit to that cause These questions that judge us also unite us , because Americans of every party and background , Americans by choice and by birth , are bound to one another in the cause of freedom . We have known divisions , which must be healed to move forward in great purposes and I will strive in good faith to heal them . Yet those divisions do not define America . We felt the unity and fellowship of our nation when freedom came under attack , and our response came like a single hand over a single heart . And we can feel that same unity and pride whenever America acts for good , and the victims of disaster are given hope , and the unjust encounter justice , and the captives are set free . We go forward with complete confidence in the eventual triumph of freedom . Not because history runs on the wheels of inevitability it is human choices that move events . Not because we consider ourselves a chosen nation God moves and chooses as He wills . We have confidence because freedom is the permanent hope of mankind , the hunger in dark places , the longing of the soul . When our Founders declared a new order of the ages when soldiers died in wave upon wave for a union based on liberty when citizens marched in peaceful outrage under the banner Freedom Now they were acting on an ancient hope that is meant to be fulfilled . History has an ebb and flow of justice , but history also has a visible direction , set by liberty and the Author of Liberty . When the Declaration of Independence was first read in public and the Liberty Bell was sounded in celebration , a witness said , It rang as if it meant something . In our time it means something still . America , in this young century , proclaims liberty throughout all the world , and to all the inhabitants thereof . Renewed in our strength tested , but not weary we are ready for the greatest achievements in the history of freedom . May God bless you , and may He watch over the United States of America .<speech_sep>I have just received an update from Secretary Chertoff and other Cabinet Secretaries involved on the latest developments in Louisiana , Mississippi , and Alabama . As we flew here today , I also asked the pilot to fly over the Gulf Coast region so I could see firsthand the scope and magnitude of the devastation . The vast majority of New Orleans , Louisiana is under water . Tens of thousands of homes and businesses are beyond repair . A lot of the Mississippi Gulf Coast has been completely destroyed . Mobile is flooded . We are dealing with one of the worst natural disasters in our nation s history . And that is why I have called the Cabinet together . The people in the affected regions expect the federal government to work with the state government and local government with an effective response . I have directed Secretary of Homeland Security Mike Chertoff to chair a Cabinet level task force to coordinate all our assistance from Washington . FEMA Director Mike Brown is in charge of all federal response and recovery efforts in the field . I have instructed them to work closely with state and local officials , as well as with the private sector , to ensure that we are helping , not hindering , recovery efforts . This recovery will take a long time . This recovery will take years . Our efforts are now focused on three priorities Our first priority is to save lives . We are assisting local officials in New Orleans in evacuating any remaining citizens from the affected area . I want to thank the state of Texas , and particularly Harris County and the city of Houston and officials with the Houston Astrodome , for providing shelter to those citizens who found refuge in the Super Dome in Louisiana . Buses are on the way to take those people from New Orleans to Houston . FEMA has deployed more than 50 disaster medical assistance teams from all across the country to help the affected to help those in the affected areas . FEMA has deployed more than 25 urban search and rescue teams with more than a thousand personnel to help save as many lives as possible . The United States Coast Guard is conducting search and rescue missions . They are working alongside local officials , local assets . The Coast Guard has rescued nearly 2 , 000 people to date . The Department of Defense is deploying major assets to the region . These include the USS Bataan to conduct search and rescue missions eight swift water rescue teams the Iwo Jima Amphibious Readiness Group to help with disaster response equipment and the hospital ship USNS Comfort to help provide medical care . The National Guard has nearly 11 , 000 Guardsmen on state active duty to assist governors and local officials with security and disaster response efforts . FEMA and the Army Corps of Engineers are working around the clock with Louisiana officials to repair the breaches in the levees so we can stop the flooding in New Orleans . Our second priority is to sustain lives by ensuring adequate food , water , shelter and medical supplies for survivors and dedicated citizens dislocated citizens . FEMA is moving supplies and equipment into the hardest hit areas . The Department of Transportation has provided more than 400 trucks to move 1 , 000 truckloads containing 5 . 4 million Meals Ready to Eat or MREs , 13 . 4 million liters of water , 10 , 400 tarps , 3 . 4 million pounds of ice , 144 generators , 20 containers of pre positioned disaster supplies , 135 , 000 blankets and 11 , 000 cots . And we are just starting . There are more than 78 , 000 people now in shelters . HHS and CDC are working with local officials to identify operating hospital facilities so we can help them , help the nurses and doctors provide necessary medical care . They are distributing medical supplies , and they are executing a public health plan to control disease and other health related issues that might arise . Our third priority is executing a comprehensive recovery effort . We are focusing on restoring power and lines of communication that have been knocked out during the storm . We will be repairing major roads and bridges and other essential means of transportation as quickly as possible . There is a lot of work we are going to have to do . In my flyover , I saw a lot of destruction on major infrastructure . Repairing the infrastructure , of course , is going to be a key priority . The Department of Energy is approving loans from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve to limit disruptions in crude supplies for refineries . A lot of crude production has been shut down because of the storm . I instructed Secretary Bodman to work with refiners , people who need crude oil , to alleviate any shortage through loans . The Environmental Protection Agency has granted a nationwide waiver for fuel blends to make more gasoline and diesel fuel available throughout the country . This will help take some pressure off of gas price . But our citizens must understand this storm has disrupted the capacity to make gasoline and distribute gasoline . We are also developing a comprehensive plan to immediately help displaced citizens . This will include housing and education and health care and other essential needs . I have directed the folks in my Cabinet to work with local folks , local officials , to develop a comprehensive strategy to rebuild the communities affected . And there is going to be a lot of rebuilding done . I cannot tell you how devastating the sights were . I want to thank the communities in surrounding states that have welcomed their neighbors during an hour of need . A lot of folks left the affected areas and found refuge with a relative or a friend , and I appreciate you doing that . I also want to thank the American Red Cross and the Salvation Army and the Catholic Charities , and all other members of the armies of compassion . I think the folks in the affected areas are going to be overwhelmed when they realize how many Americans want to help them . At this stage in the recovery efforts , it is important for those who want to contribute , to contribute cash . You can contribute cash to a charity of your choice , but make sure you designate that gift for hurricane relief . You can call 1 800 HELPNOor you can get on the Red Cross web page , RedCross . org . The Red Cross needs our help . I urge our fellow citizens to contribute . The folks on the Gulf Coast are going to need the help of this country for a long time . This is going to be a difficult road . The challenges that we face on the ground are unprecedented . But there is no doubt in my mind we are going to succeed . Right now the days seem awfully dark for those affected I understand that . But I am confident that , with time , you can get your life back in order , new communities will flourish , the great city of New Orleans will be back on its feet , and America will be a stronger place for it . The country stands with you . We will do all in our power to help you . May God bless you . Thank you .<speech_sep>Thank you very much , General Lennox . Secretary , Governor Pataki , members of the United States Congress , Academy staff and faculty , distinguished guests , proud family members , and graduates I want to thank you for your welcome . Laura and I are especially honored to visit this great institution in your bicentennial year . In every corner of America , the words West Point command immediate respect . This place where the Hudson River bends is more than a fine institution of learning . The United States Military Academy is the guardian of values that have shaped the soldiers who have shaped the history of the world . A few of you have followed in the path of the perfect West Point graduate , Robert Lee , who never received a single demerit in four years . Some of you followed in the path of the imperfect graduate , Ulysses Grant , who had his fair share of demerits , and said the happiest day of his life was the day I left West Point . During my college years I guess you could say I was During my college years I guess you could say I was a Grant man . You walk in the tradition of Eisenhower and MacArthur , Patton and Bradley the commanders who saved a civilization . And you walk in the tradition of second lieutenants who did the same , by fighting and dying on distant battlefields . Graduates of this academy have brought creativity and courage to every field of endeavor . West Point produced the chief engineer of the Panama Canal , the mind behind the Manhattan Project , the first American to walk in space . This fine institution gave us the man they say invented baseball , and other young men over the years who perfected the game of football . You know this , but many in America do not George Marshall , a VMI graduate , is said to have given this order I want an officer for a secret and dangerous mission . I want a West Point football player . As you leave here today , I know there is one thing you will never miss about this place Being a plebe . But even a plebe at West Point is made to feel he or she has some standing in the world . I am told that plebes , when asked whom they outrank , are required to answer this Sir , the Superintendent s dog the Commandant s cat , and all the admirals in the whole damn Navy . I probably will not be sharing that with the Secretary of the Navy . West Point is guided by tradition , and in honor of the Golden Children of the Corps , I will observe one of the traditions you cherish most . As the Commander in Chief , I hereby grant amnesty to all cadets who are on restriction for minor conduct offenses . Those of you in the end zone might have cheered a little early . Because , you see , I am going to let General Lennox define exactly what minor means . Every West Point class is commissioned to the Armed Forces . Some West Point classes are also commissioned by history , to take part in a great new calling for their country . Speaking here to the class of 1942 six months after Pearl Harbor General Marshall said , We are determined that before the sun sets on this terrible struggle , our flag will be recognized throughout the world as a symbol of freedom on the one hand , and of overwhelming power on the other . Officers graduating that year helped fulfill that mission , defeating Japan and Germany , and then reconstructing those nations as allies . West Point graduates of the 1940s saw the rise of a deadly new challenge the challenge of imperial communism and opposed it from Korea to Berlin , to Vietnam , and in the Cold War , from beginning to end . And as the sun set on their struggle , many of those West Point officers lived to see a world transformed . History has also issued its call to your generation . In your last year , America was attacked by a ruthless and resourceful enemy . You graduate from this Academy in a time of war , taking your place in an American military that is powerful and is honorable . Our war on terror is only begun , but in Afghanistan it was begun well . I am proud of the men and women who have fought on my orders . America is profoundly grateful for all who serve the cause of freedom , and for all who have given their lives in its defense . This nation respects and trusts our military , and we are confident in your victories to come . This war will take many turns we cannot predict . Yet I am certain of this Wherever we carry it , the American flag will stand not only for our power , but for freedom . Our nation s cause has always been larger than our nation s defense . We fight , as we always fight , for a just peace a peace that favors human liberty . We will defend the peace against threats from terrorists and tyrants . We will preserve the peace by building good relations among the great powers . And we will extend the peace by encouraging free and open societies on every continent . Building this just peace is America s opportunity , and America s duty . From this day forward , it is your challenge , as well , and we will meet this challenge together . You will wear the uniform of a great and unique country . America has no empire to extend or utopia to establish . We wish for others only what we wish for ourselves safety from violence , the rewards of liberty , and the hope for a better life . In defending the peace , we face a threat with no precedent . Enemies in the past needed great armies and great industrial capabilities to endanger the American people and our nation . The attacks of September the 11th required a few hundred thousand dollars in the hands of a few dozen evil and deluded men . All of the chaos and suffering they caused came at much less than the cost of a single tank . The dangers have not passed . This government and the American people are on watch , we are ready , because we know the terrorists have more money and more men and more plans . The gravest danger to freedom lies at the perilous crossroads of radicalism and technology . When the spread of chemical and biological and nuclear weapons , along with ballistic missile technology when that occurs , even weak states and small groups could attain a catastrophic power to strike great nations . Our enemies have declared this very intention , and have been caught seeking these terrible weapons . They want the capability to blackmail us , or to harm us , or to harm our friends and we will oppose them with all our power . For much of the last century , America s defense relied on the Cold War doctrines of deterrence and containment . In some cases , those strategies still apply . But new threats also require new thinking . Deterrence the promise of massive retaliation against nations means nothing against shadowy terrorist networks with no nation or citizens to defend . Containment is not possible when unbalanced dictators with weapons of mass destruction can deliver those weapons on missiles or secretly provide them to terrorist allies . We cannot defend America and our friends by hoping for the best . We cannot put our faith in the word of tyrants , who solemnly sign non proliferation treaties , and then systemically break them . If we wait for threats to fully materialize , we will have waited too long . Homeland defense and missile defense are part of stronger security , and they are essential priorities for America . Yet the war on terror will not be won on the defensive . We must take the battle to the enemy , disrupt his plans , and confront the worst threats before they emerge . In the world we have entered , the only path to safety is the path of action . And this nation will act . Our security will require the best intelligence , to reveal threats hidden in caves and growing in laboratories . Our security will require modernizing domestic agencies such as the FBso they are prepared to act , and act quickly , against danger . Our security will require transforming the military you will lead a military that must be ready to strike at a moment s notice in any dark corner of the world . And our security will require all Americans to be forward looking and resolute , to be ready for preemptive action when necessary to defend our liberty and to defend our lives . The work ahead is difficult . The choices we will face are complex . We must uncover terror cells in 60 or more countries , using every tool of finance , intelligence and law enforcement . Along with our friends and allies , we must oppose proliferation and confront regimes that sponsor terror , as each case requires . Some nations need military training to fight terror , and we will provide it . Other nations oppose terror , but tolerate the hatred that leads to terror and that must change . We will send diplomats where they are needed , and we will send you , our soldiers , where you are needed . All nations that decide for aggression and terror will pay a price . We will not leave the safety of America and the peace of the planet at the mercy of a few mad terrorists and tyrants . We will lift this dark threat from our country and from the world . Because the war on terror will require resolve and patience , it will also require firm moral purpose . In this way our struggle is similar to the Cold War . Now , as then , our enemies are totalitarians , holding a creed of power with no place for human dignity . Now , as then , they seek to impose a joyless conformity , to control every life and all of life . America confronted imperial communism in many different ways diplomatic , economic , and military . Yet moral clarity was essential to our victory in the Cold War . When leaders like John Kennedy and Ronald Reagan refused to gloss over the brutality of tyrants , they gave hope to prisoners and dissidents and exiles , and rallied free nations to a great cause . Some worry that it is somehow undiplomatic or impolite to speak the language of right and wrong . I disagree . Different circumstances require different methods , but not different moralities . Moral truth is the same in every culture , in every time , and in every place . Targeting innocent civilians for murder is always and everywhere wrong . Brutality against women is always and everywhere wrong . There can be no neutrality between justice and cruelty , between the innocent and the guilty . We are in a conflict between good and evil , and America will call evil by its name . By confronting evil and lawless regimes , we do not create a problem , we reveal a problem . And we will lead the world in opposing it . As we defend the peace , we also have an historic opportunity to preserve the peace . We have our best chance since the rise of the nation state in the 17th century to build a world where the great powers compete in peace instead of prepare for war . The history of the last century , in particular , was dominated by a series of destructive national rivalries that left battlefields and graveyards across the Earth . Germany fought France , the Axis fought the Allies , and then the East fought the West , in proxy wars and tense standoffs , against a backdrop of nuclear Armageddon . Competition between great nations is inevitable , but armed conflict in our world is not . More and more , civilized nations find ourselves on the same side united by common dangers of terrorist violence and chaos . America has , and intends to keep , military strengths beyond challenge thereby , making the destabilizing arms races of other eras pointless , and limiting rivalries to trade and other pursuits of peace . Today the great powers are also increasingly united by common values , instead of divided by conflicting ideologies . The United States , Japan and our Pacific friends , and now all of Europe , share a deep commitment to human freedom , embodied in strong alliances such as NATAnd the tide of liberty is rising in many other nations . Generations of West Point officers planned and practiced for battles with Soviet Russia . I have just returned from a new Russia , now a country reaching toward democracy , and our partner in the war against terror . Even in China , leaders are discovering that economic freedom is the only lasting source of national wealth . In time , they will find that social and political freedom is the only true source of national greatness . When the great powers share common values , we are better able to confront serious regional conflicts together , better able to cooperate in preventing the spread of violence or economic chaos . In the past , great power rivals took sides in difficult regional problems , making divisions deeper and more complicated . Today , from the Middle East to South Asia , we are gathering broad international coalitions to increase the pressure for peace . We must build strong and great power relations when times are good to help manage crisis when times are bad . America needs partners to preserve the peace , and we will work with every nation that shares this noble goal . And finally , America stands for more than the absence of war . We have a great opportunity to extend a just peace , by replacing poverty , repression , and resentment around the world with hope of a better day . Through most of history , poverty was persistent , inescapable , and almost universal . In the last few decades , we have seen nations from Chile to South Korea build modern economies and freer societies , lifting millions of people out of despair and want . And there is no mystery to this achievement . The 20th century ended with a single surviving model of human progress , based on non negotiable demands of human dignity , the rule of law , limits on the power of the state , respect for women and private property and free speech and equal justice and religious tolerance . America cannot impose this vision yet we can support and reward governments that make the right choices for their own people . In our development aid , in our diplomatic efforts , in our international broadcasting , and in our educational assistance , the United States will promote moderation and tolerance and human rights . And we will defend the peace that makes all progress possible . When it comes to the common rights and needs of men and women , there is no clash of civilizations . The requirements of freedom apply fully to Africa and Latin America and the entire Islamic world . The peoples of the Islamic nations want and deserve the same freedoms and opportunities as people in every nation . And their governments should listen to their hopes . A truly strong nation will permit legal avenues of dissent for all groups that pursue their aspirations without violence . An advancing nation will pursue economic reform , to unleash the great entrepreneurial energy of its people . A thriving nation will respect the rights of women , because no society can prosper while denying opportunity to half its citizens . Mothers and fathers and children across the Islamic world , and all the world , share the same fears and aspirations . In poverty , they struggle . In tyranny , they suffer . And as we saw in Afghanistan , in liberation they celebrate . America has a greater objective than controlling threats and containing resentment . We will work for a just and peaceful world beyond the war on terror . The bicentennial class of West Point now enters this drama . With all in the United States Army , you will stand between your fellow citizens and grave danger . You will help establish a peace that allows millions around the world to live in liberty and to grow in prosperity . You will face times of calm , and times of crisis . And every test will find you prepared because you are the men and women of West Point . You leave here marked by the character of this Academy , carrying with you the highest ideals of our nation . Toward the end of his life , Dwight Eisenhower recalled the first day he stood on the plain at West Point . The feeling came over me , he said , that the expression the United States of America would now and henceforth mean something different than it had ever before . From here on , it would be the nation I would be serving , not myself . Today , your last day at West Point , you begin a life of service in a career unlike any other . You have answered a calling to hardship and purpose , to risk and honor . At the end of every day you will know that you have faithfully done your duty . May you always bring to that duty the high standards of this great American institution . May you always be worthy of the long gray line that stretches two centuries behind you . On behalf of the nation , I congratulate each one of you for the commission you have earned and for the credit you bring to the United States of America . May God bless you all .<speech_sep>Speaker , Vice President Cheney , members of Congress , distinguished guests , and fellow citizens America this evening is a nation called to great responsibilities , and we are rising to meet them . As we gather tonight , hundreds of thousands of American service men and women are deployed across the world in the war on terror . By bringing hope to the oppressed and delivering justice to the violent , they are making America more secure . Each day , law enforcement personnel and intelligence officers are tracking terrorist threats analysts are examining airline passenger lists the men and women of our new Homeland Security Department are patrolling our coasts and borders . And their vigilance is protecting America . Americans are proving once again to be the hardest working people in the world . The American economy is growing stronger . The tax relief you passed is working . Tonight members of Congress can take pride in the great works of compassion and reform that skeptics had thought impossible . You are raising the standards for our public schools , and you are giving our senior citizens prescription drug coverage under Medicare . We have faced serious challenges together , and now we face a choice We can go forward with confidence and resolve , or we can turn back to the dangerous illusion that terrorists are not plotting and outlaw regimes are no threat to us . We can press on with economic growth and reforms in education and Medicare , or we can turn back to old policies and old divisions . We have not come all this way , through tragedy and trial and war , only to falter and leave our work unfinished . Americans are rising to the tasks of history , and they expect the same from us . In their efforts , their enterprise , and their character , the American people are showing that the state of our Union is confident and strong . Our greatest responsibility is the active defense of the American people . Twenty eight months have passed since September 11 , 2001 over two years without an attack on American soil . And it is tempting to believe that the danger is behind us . That hope is understandable , comforting and false . The killing has continued in Bali , Jakarta , Casablanca , Riyadh , Mombasa , Jerusalem , Istanbul , and Baghdad . The terrorists continue to plot against America and the civilized world . And by our will and courage , this danger will be defeated . Inside the United States , where the war began , we must continue to give our homeland security and law enforcement personnel every tool they need to defend us . And one of those essential tools is the PATRIOT Act , which allows federal law enforcement to better share information to track terrorists , to disrupt their cells , and to seize their assets . For years , we have used similar provisions to catch embezzlers and drug traffickers . If these methods are good for hunting criminals , they are even more important for hunting terrorists . Key provisions of the PATRIOT Act are set to expire next year . The terrorist threat will not expire on that schedule . Our law enforcement needs this vital legislation to protect our citizens . You need to renew the PATRIOT Act . America is on the offensive against the terrorists who started this war . Last March , Khalid Sheik Mohammed , a mastermind of September 11 , awoke to find himself in the custody of and Pakistani authorities . Last August 11 brought the capture of the terrorist Hambali , who was a key player in the attack in Indonesia that killed over 200 people . We are tracking Al Qaeda around the world , and nearly two thirds of their known leaders have now been captured or killed . Thousands of very skilled and determined military personnel are on the manhunt , going after the remaining killers who hide in cities and caves , and one by one , we will bring these terrorists to justice . As part of the offensive against terror , we are also confronting the regimes that harbor and support terrorists and could supply them with nuclear , chemical , or biological weapons . The United States and our allies are determined We refuse to live in the shadow of this ultimate danger . The first to see our determination were the Taliban , who made Afghanistan the primary training base of Al Qaeda killers . As of this month , that country has a new constitution guaranteeing free elections and full participation by women . Businesses are opening . Health care centers are being established , and the boys and girls of Afghanistan are back in school . With the help from the new Afghan army , our coalition is leading aggressive raids against the surviving members of the Taliban and Al Qaeda . The men and women of Afghanistan are building a nation that is free and proud and fighting terror , and America is honored to be their friend . Since we last met in this chamber , combat forces of the United States , Great Britain , Australia , Poland , and other countries enforced the demands of the United Nations , ended the rule of Saddam Hussein , and the people of Iraq are free . Having broken the Ba athist regime , we face a remnant of violent Saddam supporters . Men who ran away from our troops in battle are now dispersed and attack from the shadows . These killers , joined by foreign terrorists , are a serious , continuing danger . Yet we are making progress against them . The once all powerful ruler of Iraq was found in a hole and now sits in a prison cell . Of the top 55 officials of the former regime , we have captured or killed 45 . Our forces are on the offensive , leading over 1 , 600 patrols a day and conducting an average of 180 raids a week . We are dealing with these thugs in Iraq just as surely as we dealt with Saddam Hussein s evil regime . The work of building a new Iraq is hard , and it is right . And America has always been willing to do what it takes for what is right . Last January , Iraq s only law was the whim of one brutal man . Today , our coalition is working with the Iraqi Governing Council to draft a basic law with a bill of rights . We are working with Iraqis and the United Nations to prepare for a transition to full Iraqi sovereignty by the end of June . As democracy takes hold in Iraq , the enemies of freedom will do all in their power to spread violence and fear . They are trying to shake the will of our country and our friends , but the United States of America will never be intimidated by thugs and assassins . The killers will fail , and the Iraqi people will live in freedom . Month by month , Iraqis are assuming more responsibility for their own security and their own future . And tonight we are honored to welcome one of Iraq s most respected leaders , the current President of the Iraqi Governing Council , Adnan Pachachi . Sir , America stands with you and the Iraqi people as you build a free and peaceful nation . Because of American leadership and resolve , the world is changing for the better . Last month , the leader of Libya voluntarily pledged to disclose and dismantle all of his regime s weapons of mass destruction programs , including a uranium enrichment project for nuclear weapons . Colonel Qadhafi correctly judged that his country would be better off and far more secure without weapons of mass murder . Nine months of intense negotiations involving the United States and Great Britain succeeded with Libya , while 12 years of diplomacy with Iraq did not . And one reason is clear For diplomacy to be effective , words must be credible , and no one can now doubt the word of America . Different threats require different strategies . Along with nations in the region , we are insisting that North Korea eliminate its nuclear program . America and the international community are demanding that Iran meet its commitments and not develop nuclear weapons . America is committed to keeping the world s most dangerous weapons out of the hands of the most dangerous regimes . When I came to this rostrum on September 20 , 2001 , I brought the police shield of a fallen officer , my reminder of lives that ended and a task that does not end . I gave to you and to all Americans my complete commitment to securing our country and defeating our enemies . And this pledge , given by one , has been kept by many . You in the Congress have provided the resources for our defense and cast the difficult votes of war and peace . Our closest allies have been unwavering . America s intelligence personnel and diplomats have been skilled and tireless . And the men and women of the American military they have taken the hardest duty . We have seen their skill and their courage in armored charges and midnight raids and lonely hours on faithful watch . We have seen the joy when they return and felt the sorrow when one is lost . I have had the honor of meeting our service men and women at many posts , from the deck of a carrier in the Pacific to a mess hall in Baghdad . Many of our troops are listening tonight , and I want you and your families to know America is proud of you . And my administration and this Congress will give you the resources you need to fight and win the war on terror . I know that some people question if America is really in a war at all . They view terrorism more as a crime , a problem to be solved mainly with law enforcement and indictments . After the World Trade Center was first attacked in 1993 , some of the guilty were indicted and tried and convicted and sent to prison . But the matter was not settled . The terrorists were still training and plotting in other nations and drawing up more ambitious plans . After the chaos and carnage of September 11 , it is not enough to serve our enemies with legal papers . The terrorists and their supporters declared war on the United States , and war is what they got . Some in this chamber and in our country did not support the liberation of Iraq . Objections to war often come from principled motives , but let us be candid about the consequences of leaving Saddam Hussein in power . We are seeking all the facts . Already , the Kay Report identified dozens of weapons of mass destruction related program activities and significant amounts of equipment that Iraq concealed from the United Nations . Had we failed to act , the dictator s weapons of mass destruction programs would continue to this day . Had we failed to act , Security Council resolutions on Iraq would have been revealed as empty threats , weakening the United Nations and encouraging defiance by dictators around the world . Iraq s torture chambers would still be filled with victims , terrified and innocent . The killing fields of Iraq , where hundreds of thousands of men and women and children vanished into the sands , would still be known only to the killers . For all who love freedom and peace , the world without Saddam Hussein s regime is a better and safer place . Some critics have said our duties in Iraq must be internationalized . This particular criticism is hard to explain to our partners in Britain , Australia , Japan , South Korea , the Philippines , Thailand , Italy , Spain , Poland , Denmark , Hungary , Bulgaria , Ukraine , Romania , the Netherlands , Norway , El Salvador , and the 17 other countries that have committed troops to Iraq . As we debate at home , we must never ignore the vital contributions of our international partners or dismiss their sacrifices . From the beginning , America has sought international support for our operations in Afghanistan and Iraq , and we have gained much support . There is a difference , however , between leading a coalition of many nations and submitting to the objections of a few . America will never seek a permission slip to defend the security of our country . We also hear doubts that democracy is a realistic goal for the greater Middle East , where freedom is rare . Yet it is mistaken and condescending to assume that whole cultures and great religions are incompatible with liberty and self government . I believe that God has planted in every human heart the desire to live in freedom . And even when that desire is crushed by tyranny for decades , it will rise again . As long as the Middle East remains a place of tyranny and despair and anger , it will continue to produce men and movements that threaten the safety of America and our friends . So America is pursuing a forward strategy of freedom in the greater Middle East . We will challenge the enemies of reform , confront the allies of terror , and expect a higher standard from our friend . To cut through the barriers of hateful propaganda , the Voice of America and other broadcast services are expanding their programming in Arabic and Persian , and soon a new television service will begin providing reliable news and information across the region . I will send you a proposal to double the budget of the National Endowment for Democracy and to focus its new work on the development of free elections and free markets , free press , and free labor unions in the Middle East . And above all , we will finish the historic work of democracy in Afghanistan and Iraq so those nations can light the way for others and help transform a troubled part of the world . America is a nation with a mission , and that mission comes from our most basic beliefs . We have no desire to dominate , no ambitions of empire . Our aim is a democratic peace , a peace founded upon the dignity and rights of every man and woman . America acts in this cause with friends and allies at our side , yet we understand our special calling This great Republic will lead the cause of freedom . In the last three years , adversity has also revealed the fundamental strengths of the American economy . We have come through recession and terrorist attack and corporate scandals and the uncertainties of war . And because you acted to stimulate our economy with tax relief , this economy is strong and growing stronger . You have doubled the child tax credit from 500 to 1 , 000 , reduced the marriage penalty , begun to phase out the death tax , reduced taxes on capital gains and stock dividends , cut taxes on small businesses , and you have lowered taxes for every American who pays income taxes . Americans took those dollars and put them to work , driving this economy forward . The pace of economic growth in the third quarter of 2003 was the fastest in nearly 20 years new home construction , the highest in almost 20 years homeownership rates , the highest ever . Manufacturing activity is increasing . Inflation is low . Interest rates are low . Exports are growing . Productivity is high , and jobs are on the rise . These numbers confirm that the American people are using their money far better than government would have , and you were right to return it . America s growing economy is also a changing economy . As technology transforms the way almost every job is done , America becomes more productive , and workers need new skills . Much of our job growth will be found in high skilled fields like health care and biotechnology . So we must respond by helping more Americans gain the skills to find good jobs in our new economy . All skills begin with the basics of reading and math , which are supposed to be learned in the early grades of our schools . Yet for too long , for too many children , those skills were never mastered . By passing the No Child Left Behind Act , you have made the expectation of literacy the law of our country . We are providing more funding for our schools , a 36 percent increase since 2001 . We are requiring higher standards . We are regularly testing every child on the fundamentals . We are reporting results to parents and making sure they have better options when schools are not performing . We are making progress toward excellence for every child in America . But the status quo always has defenders . Some want to undermine the No Child Left Behind Act by weakening standards and accountability . Yet the results we require are really a matter of common sense We expect third graders to read and do math at the third grade level , and that is not asking too much . Testing is the only way to identify and help students who are falling behind . This nation will not go back to the days of simply shuffling children along from grade to grade without them learning the basics . I refuse to give up on any child , and the No Child Left Behind Act is opening the door of opportunity to all of America s children . At the same time , we must ensure that older students and adults can gain the skills they need to find work now . Many of the fastest growing occupations require strong math and science preparation and training beyond the high school level . So tonight , I propose a series of measures called Jobs for the 21st Century . This program will provide extra help to middle and high school students who fall behind in reading and math , expand advanced placement programs in low income schools , invite math and science professionals from the private sector to teach part time in our high schools . I propose larger Pell Grants for students who prepare for college with demanding courses in high school . I propose increasing our support for America s fine community colleges , so they can I do so , so they can train workers for industries that are creating the most new jobs . By all these actions , we will help more and more Americans to join in the growing prosperity of our country . Job training is important , and so is job creation . We must continue to pursue an aggressive , progrowth economic agenda . Congress has some unfinished business on the issue of taxes . The tax reductions you passed are set to expire . Unless you act , the unfair tax on marriage will go back up . Unless you act , millions of families will be charged 300 more in federal taxes for every child . Unless you act , small businesses will pay higher taxes . Unless you act , the death tax will eventually come back to life . Unless you act , Americans face a tax increase . What Congress has given , the Congress should not take away . For the sake of job growth , the tax cuts you passed should be permanent . Our agenda for jobs and growth must help small business owners and employees with relief from needless federal regulation and protect them from junk and frivolous lawsuits . Consumers and businesses need reliable supplies of energy to make our economy run , so I urge you to pass legislation to modernize our electricity system , promote conservation , and make America less dependent on foreign sources of energy . My administration is promoting free and fair trade to open up new markets for America s entrepreneurs and manufacturers and farmers , to create jobs for American workers . Younger workers should have the opportunity to build a nest egg by saving part of their Social Security taxes in a personal retirement account . We should make the Social Security system a source of ownership for the American people . And we should limit the burden of government on this economy by acting as good stewards of taxpayers dollars . In two weeks , I will send you a budget that funds the war , protects the homeland , and meets important domestic needs while limiting the growth in discretionary spending to less than four percent . This will require that Congress focus on priorities , cut wasteful spending , and be wise with the people s money . By doing so , we can cut the deficit in half over the next five years . Tonight I also ask you to reform our immigration laws so they reflect our values and benefit our economy . I propose a new temporary worker program to match willing foreign workers with willing employers when no Americans can be found to fill the job . This reform will be good for our economy because employers will find needed workers in an honest and orderly system . A temporary worker program will help protect our homeland , allowing Border Patrol and law enforcement to focus on true threats to our national security . I oppose amnesty , because it would encourage further illegal immigration and unfairly reward those who break our laws . My temporary worker program will preserve the citizenship path for those who respect the law while bringing millions of hard working men and women out from the shadows of American life . Our nation s health care system , like our economy , is also in a time of change . Amazing medical technologies are improving and saving lives . This dramatic progress has brought its own challenge , in the rising costs of medical care and health insurance . Members of Congress , we must work together to help control those costs and extend the benefits of modern medicine throughout our country . Meeting these goals requires bipartisan effort , and two months ago , you showed the way . By strengthening Medicare and adding a prescription drug benefit , you kept a basic commitment to our seniors . You are giving them the modern medicine they deserve . Starting this year , under the law you passed , seniors can choose to receive a drug discount card , saving them 10 to 25 percent off the retail price of most prescription drugs , and millions of low income seniors can get an additional 600 to buy medicine . Beginning next year , seniors will have new coverage for preventive screenings against diabetes and heart disease , and seniors just entering Medicare can receive wellness exams . In January of 2006 , seniors can get prescription drug coverage under Medicare . For a monthly premium of about 35 , most seniors who do not have that coverage today can expect to see their drug bills cut roughly in half . Under this reform , senior citizens will be able to keep their Medicare just as it is , or they can choose a Medicare plan that fits them best , just as you , as Members of Congress , can choose an insurance plan that meets your needs . And starting this year , millions of Americans will be able to save money tax free for their medical expenses in a health savings account . I signed this measure proudly , and any attempt to limit the choices of our seniors or to take away their prescription drug coverage under Medicare will meet my veto . On the critical issue of health care , our goal is to ensure that Americans can choose and afford private health care coverage that best fits their individual needs . To make insurance more affordable , Congress must act to address rapidly rising health care costs . Small businesses should be able to band together and negotiate for lower insurance rates , so they can cover more workers with health insurance . I urge you to pass association health plans . I ask you to give lower income Americans a refundable tax credit that would allow millions to buy their own basic health insurance . By computerizing health records , we can avoid dangerous medical mistakes , reduce costs , and improve care . To protect the doctor patient relationship and keep good doctors doing good work , we must eliminate wasteful and frivolous medical lawsuits . And tonight I propose that individuals who buy catastrophic health care coverage as part of our new health savings accounts be allowed to deduct 100 percent of the premiums from their taxes . A government run health care system is the wrong prescription . By keeping costs under control , expanding access , and helping more Americans afford coverage , we will preserve the system of private medicine that makes America s health care the best in the world . We are living in a time of great change in our world , in our economy , in science and medicine . Yet some things endure courage and compassion , reverence and integrity , respect for differences of faith and race . The values we try to live by never change , and they are instilled in us by fundamental institutions such as families and schools and religious congregations . These institutions , these unseen pillars of civilization , must remain strong in America , and we will defend them . We must stand with our families to help them raise healthy , responsible children . When it comes to helping children make right choices , there is work for all of us to do . One of the worst decisions our children can make is to gamble their lives and futures on drugs . Our government is helping parents confront this problem with aggressive education , treatment , and law enforcement . Drug use in high school has declined by 11 percent over the last two years . Four hundred thousand fewer young people are using illegal drugs than in the year 2001 . In my budget , I propose new funding to continue our aggressive , community based strategy to reduce demand for illegal drugs . Drug testing in our schools has proven to be an effective part of this effort . So tonight I propose an additional 23 million for schools that want to use drug testing as a tool to save children s lives . The aim here is not to punish children but to send them this message We love you , and we do not want to lose you . To help children make right choices , they need good examples . Athletics play such an important role in our society , but unfortunately , some in professional sports are not setting much of an example . The use of performance enhancing drugs like steroids in baseball , football , and other sports is dangerous , and it sends the wrong message , that there are shortcuts to accomplishment and that performance is more important than character . So tonight I call on team owners , union representatives , coaches , and players to take the lead , to send the right signal , to get tough , and to get rid of steroids now . To encourage right choices , we must be willing to confront the dangers young people face , even when they are difficult to talk about . Each year , about three million teenagers contract sexually transmitted diseases that can harm them or kill them or prevent them from ever becoming parents . In my budget , I propose a grassroots campaign to help inform families about these medical risks . We will double federal funding for abstinence programs , so schools can teach this fact of life Abstinence for young people is the only certain way to avoid sexually transmitted diseases . Decisions children now make can affect their health and character for the rest of their lives . All of us , parents and schools and government , must work together to counter the negative influence of the culture and to send the right messages to our children . A strong America must also value the institution of marriage . I believe we should respect individuals as we take a principled stand for one of the most fundamental , enduring institutions of our civilization . Congress has already taken a stand on this issue by passing the Defense of Marriage Act , signed in 1996 by President Clinton . That statute protects marriage under federal law as a union of a man and a woman and declares that one state may not redefine marriage for other states . Activist judges , however , have begun redefining marriage by court order , without regard for the will of the people and their elected representatives . On an issue of such great consequence , the people s voice must be heard . If judges insist on forcing their arbitrary will upon the people , the only alternative left to the people would be the constitutional process . Our nation must defend the sanctity of marriage . The outcome of this debate is important , and so is the way we conduct it . The same moral tradition that defines marriage also teaches that each individual has dignity and value in God s sight . It is also important to strengthen our communities by unleashing the compassion of America s religious institutions . Religious charities of every creed are doing some of the most vital work in our country mentoring children , feeding the hungry , taking the hand of the lonely . Yet government has often denied social service grants and contracts to these groups , just because they have a cross or a Star of David or a crescent on the wall . By Executive Order , I have opened billions of dollars in grant money to competition that includes faith based charities . Tonight I ask you to codify this into law , so people of faith can know that the law will never discriminate against them again . In the past , we have worked together to bring mentors to children of prisoners and provide treatment for the addicted and help for the homeless . Tonight I ask you to consider another group of Americans in need of help . This year , some 600 , 000 inmates will be released from prison back into society . We know from long experience that if they cannot find work or a home or help , they are much more likely to commit crime and return to prison . So tonight I propose a four year , 300 million prisoner reentry initiative to expand job training and placement services , to provide transitional housing , and to help newly released prisoners get mentoring , including from faith based groups . America is the land of second chance , and when the gates of the prison open , the path ahead should lead to a better life . For all Americans , the last three years have brought tests we did not ask for and achievements shared by all . By our actions , we have shown what kind of nation we are . In grief , we have found the grace to go on . In challenge , we rediscovered the courage and daring of a free people . In victory , we have shown the noble aims and good heart of America . And having come this far , we sense that we live in a time set apart . I have been witness to the character of the people of America , who have shown calm in times of danger , compassion for one another , and toughness for the long haul . All of us have been partners in a great enterprise . And even some of the youngest understand that we are living in historic times . Last month a girl in Lincoln , Rhode Island , sent me a letter . It began , Dear George Bush . If there is anything you know Ashley Pearson , age 10 , can do to help anyone , please send me a letter and tell me what I can do to save our country . She added this S . If you can send a letter to the troops , please put , Ashley Pearson believes in you . Tonight , Ashley , your message to our troops has just been conveyed . And yes , you have some duties yourself Study hard in school listen to your mom or dad help someone in need and when you and your friends see a man or woman in uniform , say , Thank you . And Ashley , while you do your part , all of us here in this great chamber will do our best to keep you and the rest of America safe and free . My fellow citizens , we now move forward with confidence and faith . Our nation is strong and steadfast . The cause we serve is right , because it is the cause of all mankind . The momentum of freedom in our world is unmistakable , and it is not carried forward by our power alone . We can trust in that greater power who guides the unfolding of the years . And in all that is to come , we can know that His purposes are just and true . May God continue to bless America .<speech_sep>Good morning . For years , America s automakers have faced serious challenges burdensome costs , a shrinking share of the market , and declining profits . In recent months , the global financial crisis has made these challenges even more severe . Now some auto executives say that their companies are nearing collapse and that the only way they can buy time to restructure is with help from the federal government . This is a difficult situation that involves fundamental questions about the proper role of government . On the one hand , government has a responsibility not to undermine the private enterprise system . On the other hand , government has a responsibility to safeguard the broader health and stability of our economy . Addressing the challenges in the auto industry requires us to balance these two responsibilities . If we were to allow the free market to take its course now , it would almost certainly lead to disorderly bankruptcy and liquidation for the automakers . Under ordinary economic circumstances , I would say this is the price that failed companies must pay and I would not favor intervening to prevent the automakers from going out of business . But these are not ordinary circumstances . In the midst of a financial crisis and a recession , allowing the auto industry to collapse is not a responsible course of action . The question is how we can best give it a chance to succeed . Some argue the wisest path is to allow the auto companies to reorganize through Chapter 11 provisions of our bankruptcy laws and provide federal loans to keep them operating while they try to restructure under the supervision of a bankruptcy court . But given the current state of the auto industry and the economy , Chapter 11 is unlikely to work for American automakers at this time . American consumers understand why If you hear that a car company is suddenly going into bankruptcy , you worry that parts and servicing will not be available , and you question the value of your warranty . And with consumers hesitant to buy new cars from struggling automakers , it would be more difficult for auto companies to recover . Additionally , the financial crisis brought the auto companies to the brink of bankruptcy much faster than they could have anticipated and they have not made the legal and financial preparations necessary to carry out an orderly bankruptcy proceeding that could lead to a successful restructuring . The convergence of these factors means there is too great a risk that bankruptcy now would lead to a disorderly liquidation of American auto companies . My economic advisors believe that such a collapse would deal an unacceptably painful blow to hardworking Americans far beyond the auto industry . It would worsen a weak job market and exacerbate the financial crisis . It could send our suffering economy into a deeper and longer recession . And it would leave the next President to confront the demise of a major American industry in his first days of office . A more responsible option is to give the auto companies an incentive to restructure outside of bankruptcy and a brief window in which to do it . And that is why my administration worked with Congress on a bill to provide automakers with loans to stave off bankruptcy while they develop plans for viability . This legislation earned bipartisan support from majorities in both houses of Congress . Unfortunately , despite extensive debate and agreement that we should prevent disorderly bankruptcies in the American auto industry , Congress was unable to get a bill to my desk before adjourning this year . This means the only way to avoid a collapse of the auto industry is for the executive branch to step in . The American people want the auto companies to succeed , and so do So today , I am announcing that the federal government will grant loans to auto companies under conditions similar to those Congress considered last week . These loans will provide help in two ways . First , they will give automakers three months to put in place plans to restructure into viable companies which we believe they are capable of doing . Second , if restructuring cannot be accomplished outside of bankruptcy , the loans will provide time for companies to make the legal and financial preparations necessary for an orderly Chapter 11 process that offers a better prospect of long term success and gives consumers confidence that they can continue to buy American cars . Because Congress failed to make funds available for these loans , the plan I am announcing today will be drawn from the financial rescue package Congress approved earlier this fall . The terms of the loans will require auto companies to demonstrate how they would become viable . They must pay back all their loans to the government , and show that their firms can earn a profit and achieve a positive net worth . This restructuring will require meaningful concessions from all involved in the auto industry management , labor unions , creditors , bondholders , dealers , and suppliers . In particular , automakers must meet conditions that experts agree are necessary for long term viability including putting their retirement plans on a sustainable footing , persuading bondholders to convert their debt into capital the companies need to address immediate financial shortfalls , and making their compensation competitive with foreign automakers who have major operations in the United States . If a company fails to come up with a viable plan by March 31st , it will be required to repay its federal loans . The automakers and unions must understand what is at stake , and make hard decisions necessary to reform , These conditions send a clear message to everyone involved in the future of American automakers The time to make the hard decisions to become viable is now or the only option will be bankruptcy . The actions I am announcing today represent a step that we wish were not necessary . But given the situation , it is the most effective and responsible way to address this challenge facing our nation . By giving the auto companies a chance to restructure , we will shield the American people from a harsh economic blow at a vulnerable time . And we will give American workers an opportunity to show the world once again they can meet challenges with ingenuity and determination , and bounce back from tough times , and emerge stronger than before . Thank you .<speech_sep>Thank you . Tapper . We have been through a lot together . As I look through the room , I see Jake , Mike , Herman , Ann Compton . Just seemed like yesterday that that I was on the campaign trail and you were analyzing my speeches and my policies . And I see a lot of faces that travel with me around the world and to places like Afghanistan and Iraq and Africa . I see some new faces , which goes to show there is some turnover in this business . Through it all , it is been I have respected you . Sometimes did not like the stories that you wrote or reported on . Sometimes you misunderestimated me . But always the relationship I have felt has been professional . And I appreciate it . I appreciate I do appreciate working with you . My friends say , what is it like to deal with the press corps I said , these are just people trying to do the best they possibly can . And so here at the last press conference , I am interested in answering some of your questions . But mostly I am interested in saying thank you for the job . Ben . I have talked to the President elect about this subject . And I told him that if he felt that he needed the 350 billion , I would be willing to ask for it . In other words , if he felt it needed to happen on my watch . The best course of action , of course , is to convince enough members of the Senate to vote positively for the for the request . And , you know , that is all I can share with you , because that is all I know . Well , he has not asked me to make the request yet . And I do not intend to make the request unless he specifically asks me to make it . He is you know , I have had my third conversation with him , and I genuinely mean what I say . I wish him all the very best . I have found him to be a very smart and engaging person . And that lunch the other day was interesting , to have two guys who are nearly 85 , two 62 year olders , and a 47 year old kind of the classic generational statement . And one common area , at least the four of us , we all had different circumstances and experiences , but one thing is we have all experienced what it means to assume the responsibility of the presidency . And President Elect Obama is fixing to do that . And he will get sworn in , and then they will have the lunch and all the you know , all the deal up there on Capitol Hill . And then he will come back and go through the inauguration and then he will walk in the Oval Office , and there will be a moment when the responsibilities of the President land squarely on his shoulders . Toby . Yes , we will get everybody . Remind me of the three points , will you , because I am getting I am getting a little older . I hope so . I am for a sustainable cease fire . And a definition of a sustainable cease fire is that Hamas stops firing rockets into Israel . And there will not be a sustainable cease fire if they continue firing rockets . I happen to believe the choice is Hamas s to make . And we believe that the best way to ensure that there is a sustainable cease fire is to work with Egypt to stop the smuggling of arms into the Gaza that enables Hamas to continue to fire rockets . And so countries that supply weapons to Hamas have got to stop . And the international community needs to continue to pressure them to stop providing weapons . Hamas , obviously , if they are interested in a sustainable cease fire , needs to stop arming . And then , of course , countries contingent to the Gaza need to work to stop the smuggling . And it is a difficult difficult task . I mean , there is tunnels and , you know , great opportunities for people who want to continue to try to disrupt democracy to provide the weapons to do so . Second part of your question , please , madam I think Israel has a right to defend herself . Obviously in any of these kinds of situations , I would hope that she would continue to be mindful of innocent folks , and that they help , you know , expedite the delivery of humanitarian aid . And third , why have not we achieved peace That is a good question . It is been a long time since they have had peace in the Middle East . Step one is to have a vision for what peace would look like . And in 2002 , on the steps of the Rose Garden , I gave a speech about a two state solution two states , two democracies living side by side in peace . And we have worked hard to advance that idea . First thing is to convince all parties that the two states were necessary for peace . And one thing that is happened is , is that most people in the Middle East now accept the two state solution as the best way for peace . Most Palestinians want their own state , and most Israelis understand there needs to be a democracy on their border in order for there to be long lasting peace . The challenge , of course , has been to lay out the conditions so that a peaceful state can emerge in other words , helping the Palestinians in the West Bank develop security forces , which we have worked hard to do over the past years . And those security forces are now becoming more efficient , and Prime Minister Fayyad is using them effectively . The challenge is to develop help the Palestinians develop a democracy I mean , and a vibrant economy in their that will help lead to democracy . And the challenge , of course , is always complicated by the fact that people are willing to murder to stop the advance of freedom . And so the Hamas , or for that matter al Qaeda , or other extremist groups , are willing to use violence to prevent free states from emerging . And that is the big challenge . And so the answer is will this ever happen I think it will . And I know we have advanced the process . Yes , Suzanne . Finally got your name right , after how many years Six years Eight years . You used to be known as Suzanne . Now you are Suz ahn . I am Gahge . The most urgent threat that he will have to deal with , and other Presidents after him will have to deal with , is an attack on our homeland . You know , I wish I could report that is not the case , but there is still an enemy out there that would like to inflict damage on America Americans . And that will be the major threat . North Korea is still a problem . There is a debate in the intel community about how big a problem they are . But one of my concerns is that there might be a highly enriched uranium program . And therefore it is really important that out of the six party talks comes a strong verification regime . In other words , in order to advance our relations with North Korea , the North Korean government must honor the commitments it made to allow for strong verification measures to be in place , to ensure that they do not develop a highly enriched uranium program , for example . So they are still dangerous , and Iran is still dangerous . Yes . This is the ultimate exit interview . You see , I am concerned that , in the wake of the defeat , that the temptation will be to look inward and to say , well , here s a litmus test you must adhere to . This party will come back . But the party s message has got to be that different points of view are included in the party . And take , for example , the immigration debate . That is obviously a highly contentious issue . And the problem with the outcome of the initial round of the debate was that some people said , well , Republicans do not like immigrants . Now , that may be fair or unfair , but that is what that is the image that came out . And , you know , if the image is we do not like immigrants , then there is probably somebody else out there saying , well , if they do not like the immigrants , they probably do not like me , as well . And so my point was , is that our party has got to be compassionate and broad minded . I remember the 1964 elections . My dad happened to be running for the United State Senate then and , you know , got landslided with the Johnson landslide in the state of Texas . But it was not just George Bush who got defeated the Republican Party was pretty well decimated at the time . At least that is what they I think that is how the pundits viewed it . And then 66 there was a resurgence . And the same thing can happen this time , but we just got to make sure our message is broad gauged and compassionate that we care about people s lives , and we have got a plan to help them improve their lives . Jake , yes . How you doing So what have you been doing since 2000 never mind . So are you going to be here for President Obama That is a pretty cool job . Yes . Yes what , retirement Well , first of all , hard things do not happen overnight , Jake . And when the history of Iraq is written , historians will analyze , for example , the decision on the surge . The situation was looked like it was going fine and then violence for a period of time began to throw throw the progress of Iraq into doubt . And rather than accepting the status quo and saying , oh , it is not worth it or the politics makes it difficult or , you know , the party may end up being you know , not doing well in the elections because of the violence in Iraq , I decided to do something about it and sent 30 , 000 troops in as opposed to withdrawing . And so that part of history is certain , and the situation did change . Now the question is , in the long run , will this democracy survive And that is going to be the challenge for future Presidents . In terms of the economy , look , I inherited a recession , I am ending on a recession . In the meantime there were 52 months of uninterrupted job growth . And I defended tax cuts when I campaigned , I helped implement tax cuts when I was President , and I will defend them after my presidency as the right course of action . And there is a fundamental philosophical debate about tax cuts . Who best can spend your money , the government or you And I have always sided with the people on that issue . Now , obviously these are very difficult economic times . When people analyze the situation , there will be this problem started before my presidency , it obviously took place during my presidency . The question facing a President is not when the problem started , but what did you do about it when you recognized the problem . And I readily concede I chunked aside some of my free market principles when I was told by chief economic advisors that the situation we were facing could be worse than the Great Depression . So I have told some of my friends who said you know , who have taken an ideological position on this issue why did you do what you did I said , well , if you were sitting there and heard that the depression could be greater than the Great Depression , I hope you would act too , which I did . And we have taken extraordinary measures to deal with the frozen credit markets , which have affected the economy . Credit spreads are beginning to shrink lending is just beginning to pick up . The actions we have taken , I believe , have helped thaw the credit markets , which is the first step toward recovery . And so , yes , look , there is plenty of critics in this business I understand that . And I thank you for giving me a chance to defend a record that I am going to continue to defend , because I think it is a good , strong record . Jim . Sure . You know any You know , most people I see , you know , when I am moving around the country , for example , they are not angry . And they are not hostile people . And they we never meet people who disagree , that is just not true . I have met a lot of people who do not agree with the decisions I make . But they have been civil in their discourse . And so , I view those who get angry and yell and say bad things and , you know , all that kind of stuff , it is just a very few people in the country . I do not know why they get angry . I do not know why they get hostile . It is not the first time , however , in history that people have expressed themselves in sometimes undignified ways . I have been reading , you know , a lot about Abraham Lincoln during my presidency , and there was some pretty harsh discord when it came to the 16th President , just like there is been harsh discord for the 43rd President . You know , Presidents can try to avoid hard decisions and therefore avoid controversy . That is just not my nature . I am the kind of person that , you know , is willing to take on hard tasks , and in times of war people get emotional I understand that . Never really , you know , spent that much time , frankly , worrying about the loud voices . I of course hear them , but they did not affect my policy , nor did they affect affect how I made decisions . You know , the President Elect Obama will find this , too . He will get in the Oval Office and there will be a lot of people that are real critical and harsh , and he will be disappointed at times by the tone of the rhetoric . And he is going to have to do what he thinks is right , Jim . And if you do not , then I do not see how you can live with yourself . I do not see how I can get back home in Texas and look in the mirror and be proud of what I see if I allowed the loud voices , the loud critics , to prevent me from doing what I thought was necessary to protect this country . Mike . You know , Michael , I am not going to speculate about what he is going to do . It is going to be you know , he is going to get in the Oval Office , he is going to analyze each situation , and he is going to make the decisions that he think is necessary . And the other thing is , when I get out of here , I am getting off the stage . I believe there ought to be , you know , one person in the klieg lights at a time , and I have had my time in the klieg lights . You know , I am confident , you know , you will catch me opining on occasion , but I wish him all the best . And people say , oh , you just that is just a throwaway line . No , it is not a throwaway line . The stakes are high . There is an enemy that still is out there . You know , people can maybe try to write that off as , you know , he is trying to set something up . I am telling you there is an enemy that would like to attack America , Americans , again . There just is . That is the reality of the world . And I wish him all the very best . And of course , he is going to have his hands full with the economy . I understand . It is tough for a lot of working people out there . The people are concerned about their economic future . You know , one of the very difficult parts of the decision I made on the financial crisis was to use hardworking people s money to help prevent there to be a crisis , and in so doing , some of that money went into Wall Street firms that caused the crisis in the first place . I was not kidding when I said Wall Street got drunk and we got the hangover . And but nevertheless , President Elect Obama will find the problems and the situations surrounding problems sometimes cause people to have to make decisions that they , you know , were not initially comfortable with . And there was such a decision when it came to Wall Street . I mean , I had a lot of people when I went out to Midland that time say , what the heck are you doing Those people up East caused the problem . I said , I know , but if we had not worked to fix the problem , your situation would be worse . And anyway , I really do wish him all the best . Sheryl . I will not be discussing pardons here at this press conference . Would you like to ask another question That is the spirit , is not it Thank you . Yes . Gotcha . I have often said that history will look back and determine that which could have been done better , or , you know , mistakes I made . Clearly putting a Mission Accomplished on a aircraft carrier was a mistake . It sent the wrong message . We were trying to say something differently , but nevertheless , it conveyed a different message . Obviously , some of my rhetoric has been a mistake . I have thought long and hard about Katrina you know , could I have done something differently , like land Air Force One either in New Orleans or Baton Rouge . The problem with that and is that law enforcement would have been pulled away from the mission . And then your questions , I suspect , would have been , how could you possibly have flown Air Force One into Baton Rouge , and police officers that were needed to expedite traffic out of New Orleans were taken off the task to look after you I believe that running the Social Security idea right after the 04 elections was a mistake . I should have argued for immigration reform . And the reason why is , is that you know , one of the lessons I learned as governor of Texas , by the way , is legislative branches tend to be risk adverse . In other words , sometimes legislatures have the tendency to ask , why should I take on a hard task when a crisis is not imminent And the crisis was not imminent for Social Security as far as many members of Congress was concerned . As an aside , one thing I proved is that you can actually campaign on the issue and get elected . In other words , I do not believe talking about Social Security is the third rail of American politics . matter of fact , think that in the future , not talking about how you intend to fix Social Security is going to be the third rail of American politics . One thing about the presidency is that you can make only make decisions , you know , on the information at hand . You do not get to have information after you have made the decision . That is not the way it works . And you stand by your decisions , and you do your best to explain why you made the decisions you made . There have been disappointments . Abu Ghraib obviously was a huge disappointment during the presidency . Not having weapons of mass destruction was a significant disappointment . I do not know if you want to call those mistakes or not , but they were things did not go according to plan , let us put it that way . Anyway , I think historians will look back and they will be able to have a better look at mistakes after some time has passed . Along Jake s question , there is no such thing as short term history . I do not think you can possibly get the full breadth of an administration until time has passed Where does a President s did a President s decisions have the impact that he thought they would , or he thought they would , over time Or how did this President compare to future Presidents , given a set of circumstances that may be similar or not similar I mean , there is it is just impossible to do . And I am comfortable with that . Yes , Mike . I strongly disagree with the assessment that our moral standing has been damaged . It may be damaged amongst some of the elite , but people still understand America stands for freedom , that America is a country that provides such great hope . You go to Africa , you ask Africans about America s generosity and compassion go to India , and ask about , you know , America s their view of America . Go to China and ask . Now , no question parts of Europe have said that we should not have gone to war in Iraq without a mandate , but those are a few countries . Most countries in Europe listened to what 1441 said , which is disclose , disarm or face serious consequences . Most people take those words seriously . Now , some countries did not even though they might have voted for the resolution . I disagree with this assessment that , you know , people view America in a dim light . I just do not agree with that . And I understand that Gitmo has created controversies . But when it came time for those countries that were criticizing America to take some of those some of those detainees , they were not willing to help out . And so , you know , I just disagree with the assessment , Mike . I will remind listen , I tell people , yes , you can try to be popular . In certain quarters in Europe , you can be popular by blaming every Middle Eastern problem on Israel . Or you can be popular by joining the International Criminal Court . I guess I could have been popular by accepting Kyoto , which I felt was a flawed treaty , and proposed something different and more constructive . And in terms of the decisions that I had made to protect the homeland , I would not worry about popularity . What I would worry about is the Constitution of the United States , and putting plans in place that makes it easier to find out what the enemy is thinking , because all these debates will matter not if there is another attack on the homeland . The question will not be , you know , were you critical of this plan or not the question is going to be , why did not you do something Do you remember what it was like right after September the 11th around here In press conferences and opinion pieces and in stories that sometimes were news stories and sometimes opinion pieces people were saying , how come they did not see it , how come they did not connect the dots Do you remember what the environment was like in Washington I do . When people were hauled up in front of Congress and members of Congress were asking questions about , how come you did not know this , that , or the other And then we start putting policy in place legal policy in place to connect the dots , and all of a sudden people were saying , how come you are connecting the dots And so , Mike , I have heard all that . I have heard all that . My view is , is that most people around the world , they respect America . And some of them does not like me , I understand that some of the writers and the , you know , opiners and all that . That is fine , that is part of the deal . But I am more concerned about the country and our how people view the United States . They view us as strong , compassionate people who care deeply about the universality of freedom . Roger . Yes , I did . I am supportive of the President elect working out a plan with Congress that best suits him and Congress . That is what he is going to have to do . He is going to have to go up there and he is going to have to make his case as to why the 350 is necessary . And he knows that . This is nothing new . And in terms of the first 350 I am pleased with this aspect of the expenditure , and that is that the financial markets are beginning to thaw . In the fall , I was concerned that the credit freeze would cause us to be headed toward a depression greater than the Great Depression . That is what I was told , if we did not move . And so , therefore , we have moved aggressively . And by the way , it just was not with the TARIf you think about AIFannie and Freddie a lot of the decisions that were made in this administration are very aggressive decisions , all aiming at preventing the financial system from cratering . Yes , that is a great question . He will he will feel the effects the minute he walks in the Oval Office . At least , that is when I felt . I do not know when he is going he may feel it the minute he is gets sworn in . And the minute I got sworn in , I started thinking about the speech . And so but he is a better speech maker than me , so he will be able to he will be able to I do not know how he is going to feel . All I know is he is going to feel it . There will be a moment when he feels it . I have never felt isolated and I do not think he will . One reason he will not feel isolated is because he is got a fabulous family and he cares a lot about his family . That is evident from my discussions with him . He will be he is a 45 second commute away from a great wife and two little girls that love him dearly . I believe this the phrase burdens of the office is overstated . You know , it is kind of like , why me Oh , the burdens , you know . Why did the financial collapse have to happen on my watch It is just it is pathetic , is not it , self pity . And I do not believe that President Elect Obama will be full of self pity . He will find you know , your the people that do not like you , the critics , they are pretty predictable . Sometimes the biggest disappointments will come from your so called friends . And there will be disappointments , I promise you . He will be disappointed . On the other hand , the job is so exciting and so profound that the disappointments will be clearly , you know , a minor irritant compared to the No , not for me . We had a people we I had a fabulous team around me of highly dedicated , smart , capable people , and we had fun . I tell people that , you know , some days happy , some days not so happy , every day has been joyous . And people , they say , I just do not believe it to be the case . Well , it is the case . Even in the darkest moments of Iraq , you know , there was and every day when I was reading the reports about soldiers losing their lives , no question there was a lot of emotion , but also there was times where we could be light hearted and support each other . And I built a team of really capable people who were there not to serve me , or there to serve the Republicans , they were there to serve the country . And President Elect Obama will find , as he makes these tough calls and tough decisions , that he will be supported by a lot of really good people that care care about the country , as well . John . Yes . I hope the trend is bad against protectionism . A disappointment not a mistake , but a disappointment was not getting the three trade bills out of Congress on Colombia , Panama and South Korea . That was a disappointment . I actually thought we had a shot at one time , and then I was disappointed that they did not move out of the House . And I am concerned about protectionism . In tough economic times , the temptation is to say , well , let us just throw up barriers and protect our own and not compete . That was the sentiment , by the way , that was in place during decent economic times . After all , we got CAFTA out of the Congress by one vote . And it would be a huge mistake if we become a protectionist nation . And that might be a good thing for the Bush center to do at SMis to remind people about the benefits of free and fair trade benefits for our own workers , benefits for workers overseas , and benefits when it comes to promoting development and helping lift people out of poverty , in particularly , third world countries . The best way to enhance economic growth in a third world country and to give people a chance to realize a better future is through trade . It is been proven , it is a fact . And I am hopeful that the country does not slip into protectionist policy . April , yes , madam . Yes . You were sound asleep back there , so I decided President , on New Orleans , you basically talked about a moment ago about the photo opportunity . But let us talk about what you could have done to change the situation for the city of New Orleans to be further along in reconstruction than where it is now . And also , when you came or began to run for the Oval Office about nine years ago or so , the James Byrd dragging death was residue on your campaign . And now at this time , 2009 , we have the first black President . Could you tell us what you have seen on the issues of race , as you see it from the Oval Office Sure , thanks . First of all , we did get the 121 billion , more or less , passed , and it is now being spent . Secondly , the school system is improving dramatically . Thirdly , people are beginning to move back into homes . This storm was a devastating storm , April , that required a lot of energy , a lot of focus and a lot of resources to get New Orleans up and running . And has the reconstruction been perfect No . Have things happened fairly quickly Absolutely . And is there more to be done You bet there is . Well , more people need to get in their houses . More people need to have their own home there . But the systems are in place to continue the reconstruction of New Orleans . People said , well , the federal response was slow . Do not tell me the federal response was slow when there was 30 , 000 people pulled off roofs right after the storm passed . I remember going to see those helicopter drivers , Coast Guard drivers , to thank them for their courageous efforts to rescue people off roofs . Thirty thousand people were pulled off roofs right after the storm moved through . It is a pretty quick response . Could things have been done better Absolutely . Absolutely . But when I hear people say , the federal response was slow , then what are they going to say to those chopper drivers , or the 30 , 000 that got pulled off the roofs The other part of the look , I was affected by the TV after the elections when I saw people saying , I never thought I would see the day that a black person would be elected President , and a lot of the people had tears streaming down their cheeks when they said it . And so I am I am consider myself fortunate to have a front row seat on what is going to be an historic moment for the country . President Elect Obama s election does speak volumes about how far this country has come when it comes to racial relations . But there is still work to do . There is always going to be work to do to deal with people s hearts . And so I am looking forward to it , really am . I think it is going to be it is going to be an amazing amazing moment . Michael Allen yes , Michael Allen . Who would be you . You know , Mike , I do not know . Probably the next day . I am a Type A personality , you know , I just I just cannot envision myself , you know , the big straw hat and Hawaiian shirt sitting on some beach . So Particularly since I quit drinking . Anyway , so I predict to you that first of all , I am not sure what to expect . For the last eight years I have had a national security briefing every day but Sunday . And when you get a national security briefing , it is a reminder of the responsibilities of the job . It is just a daily reminder about what may or may not happen . The interesting thing about this job , by the way , is it is one thing to deal with the expected , what you anticipate the real challenge is to be in a position to deal with the unexpected . And that is why those intel briefings are so important , because there is there is an awareness in the briefings by the analyst to try to help anticipate problems . And of course you hope they do not arise , but you better be prepared when they do . And that in itself creates a you know , gets your attention , when you start thinking about what could happen . And the key there , of course , is that to take these different analyses seriously , and then have a structure so that your team will be in a position to analyze and then lay out potential avenues for the President from which the President can choose . I say all that because that is this has been this notion about being briefed and thinking about this issue or that issue has been just a part of my life for eight years . People say , well , there you are in Crawford on vacation . You never escape the presidency . It travels with you everywhere you go . And there is not a moment where you do not think about being President unless you are riding mountain bikes as hard as you possibly can , trying to forget for the moment . And so I wake up in Crawford Tuesday morning I mean , Wednesday morning , and I suspect I will make Laura coffee and go get it for her . And it is going to be a different feeling . And I cannot it is kind of like I will report back after I feel it . Last question . Ann since you have been there from day one . I hope the tone is different for him than it has been for me . I am disappointed by the tone in Washington , I tried to do my part by not engaging in the name calling and and by the way , needless name calling . I have worked to be respectful of my opponents on different issues . There we did find some good common ground on a variety of issues No Child Left Behind , Medicare prescription drugs , PEPFAin the end , the funding for troops in Iraq . Tax cuts , to a certain extent , got some bipartisan votes on them . There had been areas where we were able to work together . It is just the rhetoric got out of control at times I do not know why . You need to ask those who those who used the words they used . As I say , it is not the first time it is ever happened as I think I answered that to Jim , there . It is happened throughout our history . And I would hope that , frankly , for the sake of the system itself , that if people disagree with President Elect Obama , they treat him with respect . I worry about people looking at our system and saying , why would I want to go up there and work in that kind of environment And so I wish him all the best . And no question he will be there will be critics . And there should be . We all should welcome criticism on different policy it is the great thing about our democracy people have a chance to express themselves . I just hope the tone is respectful . He deserves it and so does the country . It has been a honor to work with you . I meant what I said when I first got up here . I wish you all the very best . I wish you and your families all the best . God bless you .<speech_sep>Good evening . Tonight in Iraq , the Armed Forces of the United States are engaged in a struggle that will determine the direction of the global war on terror and our safety here at home . The new strategy I outline tonight will change America s course in Iraq , and help us succeed in the fight against terror . When I addressed you just over a year ago , nearly 12 million Iraqis had cast their ballots for a unified and democratic nation . The elections of 2005 were a stunning achievement . We thought that these elections would bring the Iraqis together , and that as we trained Iraqi security forces we could accomplish our mission with fewer American troops . But in 2006 , the opposite happened . The violence in Iraq particularly in Baghdad overwhelmed the political gains the Iraqis had made . Al Qaeda terrorists and Sunni insurgents recognized the mortal danger that Iraq s elections posed for their cause , and they responded with outrageous acts of murder aimed at innocent Iraqis . They blew up one of the holiest shrines in Shia Islam the Golden Mosque of Samarra in a calculated effort to provoke Iraq s Shia population to retaliate . Their strategy worked . Radical Shia elements , some supported by Iran , formed death squads . And the result was a vicious cycle of sectarian violence that continues today . The situation in Iraq is unacceptable to the American people and it is unacceptable to me . Our troops in Iraq have fought bravely . They have done everything we have asked them to do . Where mistakes have been made , the responsibility rests with me . It is clear that we need to change our strategy in Iraq . So my national security team , military commanders , and diplomats conducted a comprehensive review . We consulted members of Congress from both parties , our allies abroad , and distinguished outside experts . We benefitted from the thoughtful recommendations of the Iraq Study Group , a bipartisan panel led by former Secretary of State James Baker and former Congressman Lee Hamilton . In our discussions , we all agreed that there is no magic formula for success in Iraq . And one message came through loud and clear Failure in Iraq would be a disaster for the United States . The consequences of failure are clear Radical Islamic extremists would grow in strength and gain new recruits . They would be in a better position to topple moderate governments , create chaos in the region , and use oil revenues to fund their ambitions . Iran would be emboldened in its pursuit of nuclear weapons . Our enemies would have a safe haven from which to plan and launch attacks on the American people . On September the 11th , 2001 , we saw what a refuge for extremists on the other side of the world could bring to the streets of our own cities . For the safety of our people , America must succeed in Iraq . The most urgent priority for success in Iraq is security , especially in Baghdad . Eighty percent of Iraq s sectarian violence occurs within 30 miles of the capital . This violence is splitting Baghdad into sectarian enclaves , and shaking the confidence of all Iraqis . Only Iraqis can end the sectarian violence and secure their people . And their government has put forward an aggressive plan to do it . Our past efforts to secure Baghdad failed for two principal reasons There were not enough Iraqi and American troops to secure neighborhoods that had been cleared of terrorists and insurgents . And there were too many restrictions on the troops we did have . Our military commanders reviewed the new Iraqi plan to ensure that it addressed these mistakes . They report that it does . They also report that this plan can work . Now let me explain the main elements of this effort The Iraqi government will appoint a military commander and two deputy commanders for their capital . The Iraqi government will deploy Iraqi Army and National Police brigades across Baghdad s nine districts . When these forces are fully deployed , there will be 18 Iraqi Army and National Police brigades committed to this effort , along with local police . These Iraqi forces will operate from local police stations conducting patrols and setting up checkpoints , and going door to door to gain the trust of Baghdad residents . This is a strong commitment . But for it to succeed , our commanders say the Iraqis will need our help . So America will change our strategy to help the Iraqis carry out their campaign to put down sectarian violence and bring security to the people of Baghdad . This will require increasing American force levels . So I have committed more than 20 , 000 additional American troops to Iraq . The vast majority of them five brigades will be deployed to Baghdad . These troops will work alongside Iraqi units and be embedded in their formations . Our troops will have a well defined mission to help Iraqis clear and secure neighborhoods , to help them protect the local population , and to help ensure that the Iraqi forces left behind are capable of providing the security that Baghdad needs . Many listening tonight will ask why this effort will succeed when previous operations to secure Baghdad did not . Well , here are the differences In earlier operations , Iraqi and American forces cleared many neighborhoods of terrorists and insurgents , but when our forces moved on to other targets , the killers returned . This time , we will have the force levels we need to hold the areas that have been cleared . In earlier operations , political and sectarian interference prevented Iraqi and American forces from going into neighborhoods that are home to those fueling the sectarian violence . This time , Iraqi and American forces will have a green light to enter those neighborhoods and Prime Minister Maliki has pledged that political or sectarian interference will not be tolerated . I have made it clear to the Prime Minister and Iraq s other leaders that America s commitment is not open ended . If the Iraqi government does not follow through on its promises , it will lose the support of the American people and it will lose the support of the Iraqi people . Now is the time to act . The Prime Minister understands this . Here is what he told his people just last week The Baghdad security plan will not provide a safe haven for any outlaws , regardless of sectarian or political affiliation . This new strategy will not yield an immediate end to suicide bombings , assassinations , or IED attacks . Our enemies in Iraq will make every effort to ensure that our television screens are filled with images of death and suffering . Yet over time , we can expect to see Iraqi troops chasing down murderers , fewer brazen acts of terror , and growing trust and cooperation from Baghdad s residents . When this happens , daily life will improve , Iraqis will gain confidence in their leaders , and the government will have the breathing space it needs to make progress in other critical areas . Most of Iraq s Sunni and Shia want to live together in peace and reducing the violence in Baghdad will help make reconciliation possible . A successful strategy for Iraq goes beyond military operations . Ordinary Iraqi citizens must see that military operations are accompanied by visible improvements in their neighborhoods and communities . So America will hold the Iraqi government to the benchmarks it has announced . To establish its authority , the Iraqi government plans to take responsibility for security in all of Iraq s provinces by November . To give every Iraqi citizen a stake in the country s economy , Iraq will pass legislation to share oil revenues among all Iraqis . To show that it is committed to delivering a better life , the Iraqi government will spend 10 billion of its own money on reconstruction and infrastructure projects that will create new jobs . To empower local leaders , Iraqis plan to hold provincial elections later this year . And to allow more Iraqis to re enter their nation s political life , the government will reform de Baathification laws , and establish a fair process for considering amendments to Iraq s constitution . America will change our approach to help the Iraqi government as it works to meet these benchmarks . In keeping with the recommendations of the Iraq Study Group , we will increase the embedding of American advisers in Iraqi Army units , and partner a coalition brigade with every Iraqi Army division . We will help the Iraqis build a larger and better equipped army , and we will accelerate the training of Iraqi forces , which remains the essential security mission in Iraq . We will give our commanders and civilians greater flexibility to spend funds for economic assistance . We will double the number of provincial reconstruction teams . These teams bring together military and civilian experts to help local Iraqi communities pursue reconciliation , strengthen the moderates , and speed the transition to Iraqi self reliance . And Secretary Rice will soon appoint a reconstruction coordinator in Baghdad to ensure better results for economic assistance being spent in Iraq . As we make these changes , we will continue to pursue al Qaeda and foreign fighters . Al Qaeda is still active in Iraq . Its home base is Anbar Province . Al Qaeda has helped make Anbar the most violent area of Iraq outside the capital . A captured al Qaeda document describes the terrorists plan to infiltrate and seize control of the province . This would bring al Qaeda closer to its goals of taking down Iraq s democracy , building a radical Islamic empire , and launching new attacks on the United States at home and abroad . Our military forces in Anbar are killing and capturing al Qaeda leaders , and they are protecting the local population . Recently , local tribal leaders have begun to show their willingness to take on al Qaeda . And as a result , our commanders believe we have an opportunity to deal a serious blow to the terrorists . So I have given orders to increase American forces in Anbar Province by 4 , 000 troops . These troops will work with Iraqi and tribal forces to keep up the pressure on the terrorists . America s men and women in uniform took away al Qaeda s safe haven in Afghanistan and we will not allow them to re establish it in Iraq . Succeeding in Iraq also requires defending its territorial integrity and stabilizing the region in the face of extremist challenges . This begins with addressing Iran and Syria . These two regimes are allowing terrorists and insurgents to use their territory to move in and out of Iraq . Iran is providing material support for attacks on American troops . We will disrupt the attacks on our forces . We will interrupt the flow of support from Iran and Syria . And we will seek out and destroy the networks providing advanced weaponry and training to our enemies in Iraq . We are also taking other steps to bolster the security of Iraq and protect American interests in the Middle East . I recently ordered the deployment of an additional carrier strike group to the region . We will expand intelligence sharing and deploy Patriot air defense systems to reassure our friends and allies . We will work with the governments of Turkey and Iraq to help them resolve problems along their border . And we will work with others to prevent Iran from gaining nuclear weapons and dominating the region . We will use America s full diplomatic resources to rally support for Iraq from nations throughout the Middle East . Countries like Saudi Arabia , Egypt , Jordan , and the Gulf States need to understand that an American defeat in Iraq would create a new sanctuary for extremists and a strategic threat to their survival . These nations have a stake in a successful Iraq that is at peace with its neighbors , and they must step up their support for Iraq s unity government . We endorse the Iraqi government s call to finalize an International Compact that will bring new economic assistance in exchange for greater economic reform . And on Friday , Secretary Rice will leave for the region , to build support for Iraq and continue the urgent diplomacy required to help bring peace to the Middle East . The challenge playing out across the broader Middle East is more than a military conflict . It is the decisive ideological struggle of our time . On one side are those who believe in freedom and moderation . On the other side are extremists who kill the innocent , and have declared their intention to destroy our way of life . In the long run , the most realistic way to protect the American people is to provide a hopeful alternative to the hateful ideology of the enemy , by advancing liberty across a troubled region . It is in the interests of the United States to stand with the brave men and women who are risking their lives to claim their freedom , and to help them as they work to raise up just and hopeful societies across the Middle East . From Afghanistan to Lebanon to the Palestinian Territories , millions of ordinary people are sick of the violence , and want a future of peace and opportunity for their children . And they are looking at Iraq . They want to know Will America withdraw and yield the future of that country to the extremists , or will we stand with the Iraqis who have made the choice for freedom The changes I have outlined tonight are aimed at ensuring the survival of a young democracy that is fighting for its life in a part of the world of enormous importance to American security . Let me be clear The terrorists and insurgents in Iraq are without conscience , and they will make the year ahead bloody and violent . Even if our new strategy works exactly as planned , deadly acts of violence will continue and we must expect more Iraqi and American casualties . The question is whether our new strategy will bring us closer to success . I believe that it will . Victory will not look like the ones our fathers and grandfathers achieved . There will be no surrender ceremony on the deck of a battleship . But victory in Iraq will bring something new in the Arab world a functioning democracy that polices its territory , upholds the rule of law , respects fundamental human liberties , and answers to its people . A democratic Iraq will not be perfect . But it will be a country that fights terrorists instead of harboring them and it will help bring a future of peace and security for our children and our grandchildren . This new approach comes after consultations with Congress about the different courses we could take in Iraq . Many are concerned that the Iraqis are becoming too dependent on the United States , and therefore , our policy should focus on protecting Iraq s borders and hunting down al Qaeda . Their solution is to scale back America s efforts in Baghdad or announce the phased withdrawal of our combat forces . We carefully considered these proposals . And we concluded that to step back now would force a collapse of the Iraqi government , tear the country apart , and result in mass killings on an unimaginable scale . Such a scenario would result in our troops being forced to stay in Iraq even longer , and confront an enemy that is even more lethal . If we increase our support at this crucial moment , and help the Iraqis break the current cycle of violence , we can hasten the day our troops begin coming home . In the days ahead , my national security team will fully brief Congress on our new strategy . If members have improvements that can be made , we will make them . If circumstances change , we will adjust . Honorable people have different views , and they will voice their criticisms . It is fair to hold our views up to scrutiny . And all involved have a responsibility to explain how the path they propose would be more likely to succeed . Acting on the good advice of Senator Joe Lieberman and other key members of Congress , we will form a new , bipartisan working group that will help us come together across party lines to win the war on terror . This group will meet regularly with me and my administration it will help strengthen our relationship with Congress . We can begin by working together to increase the size of the active Army and Marine Corps , so that America has the Armed Forces we need for the 21st century . We also need to examine ways to mobilize talented American civilians to deploy overseas , where they can help build democratic institutions in communities and nations recovering from war and tyranny . In these dangerous times , the United States is blessed to have extraordinary and selfless men and women willing to step forward and defend us . These young Americans understand that our cause in Iraq is noble and necessary and that the advance of freedom is the calling of our time . They serve far from their families , who make the quiet sacrifices of lonely holidays and empty chairs at the dinner table . They have watched their comrades give their lives to ensure our liberty . We mourn the loss of every fallen American and we owe it to them to build a future worthy of their sacrifice . Fellow citizens The year ahead will demand more patience , sacrifice , and resolve . It can be tempting to think that America can put aside the burdens of freedom . Yet times of testing reveal the character of a nation . And throughout our history , Americans have always defied the pessimists and seen our faith in freedom redeemed . Now America is engaged in a new struggle that will set the course for a new century . We can , and we will , prevail . We go forward with trust that the Author of Liberty will guide us through these trying hours . Thank you and good night .<speech_sep>Madam Speaker , Vice President Cheney , members of Congress , distinguished guests , and fellow citizens Seven years have passed since I first stood before you at this rostrum . In that time , our country has been tested in ways none of us could have imagined . We faced hard decisions about peace and war , rising competition in the world economy , and the health and welfare of our citizens . These issues call for vigorous debate , and I think it is fair to say , we have answered the call . Yet history will record that amid our differences , we acted with purpose , and together we showed the world the power and resilience of American self government . All of us were sent to Washington to carry out the people s business . That is the purpose of this body . It is the meaning of our oath . It remains our charge to keep . The actions of the 110th Congress will affect the security and prosperity of our nation long after this session has ended . In this election year , let us show our fellow Americans that we recognize our responsibilities and are determined to meet them . Let us show them that Republicans and Democrats can compete for votes and cooperate for results at the same time . From expanding opportunity to protecting our country , we have made good progress . Yet we have unfinished business before us , and the American people expect us to get it done . In the work ahead , we must be guided by the philosophy that made our nation great . As Americans , we believe in the power of individuals to determine their destiny and shape the course of history . We believe that the most reliable guide for our country is the collective wisdom of ordinary citizens . And so in all we do , we must trust in the ability of free peoples to make wise decisions and empower them to improve their lives for their futures . To build a prosperous future , we must trust people with their own money and empower them to grow our economy . As we meet tonight , our economy is undergoing a period of uncertainty . America has added jobs for a record 52 straight months , but jobs are now growing at a slower pace . Wages are up , but so are prices for food and gas . Exports are rising , but the housing market has declined . At kitchen tables across our country , there is a concern about our economic future . In the long run , Americans can be confident about our economic growth . But in the short run , we can all see that that growth is slowing . So last week , my administration reached agreement with Speaker Pelosi and Republican Leader Boehner on a robust growth package that includes tax relief for individuals and families and incentives for business investment . The temptation will be to load up the bill . That would delay it or derail it , and neither option is acceptable . This is a good agreement that will keep our economy growing and our people working , and this Congress must pass it as soon as possible . We have other work to do on taxes . Unless Congress acts , most of the tax relief we have delivered over the past seven years will be taken away . Some in Washington argue that letting tax relief expire is not a tax increase . Try explaining that to 116 million American taxpayers who would see their taxes rise by an average of 1 , 800 . Others have said they would personally be happy to pay higher taxes . I welcome their enthusiasm . I am pleased to report that the IRS accepts both checks and money orders . Most Americans think their taxes are high enough . With all the other pressures on their finances , American families should not have to worry about their federal government taking a bigger bite out of their paychecks . There is only one way to eliminate this uncertainty Make the tax relief permanent . And members of Congress should know , if any bill raises taxes reaches my desk , I will veto it . Just as we trust Americans with their own money , we need to earn their trust by spending their tax dollars wisely . Next week , I will send you a budget that terminates or substantially reduces 151 wasteful or bloated programs , totaling more than 18 billion . The budget that I will submit will keep America on track for a surplus in 2012 . American families have to balance their budgets so should their government . The people s trust in their government is undermined by congressional earmarks , special interest projects that are often snuck in at the last minute , without discussion or debate . Last year , I asked you to voluntarily cut the number and cost of earmarks in half . I also asked you to stop slipping earmarks into committee reports that never even come to a vote . Unfortunately , neither goal was met . So this time , if you send me an appropriations bill that does not cut the number and cost of earmarks in half , I will send it back to you with my veto . And tomorrow I will issue an executive order that directs federal agencies to ignore any future earmark that is not voted on by Congress . If these items are truly worth funding , Congress should debate them in the open and hold a public vote . Our shared responsibilities extend beyond matters of taxes and spending . On housing , we must trust Americans with the responsibility of homeownership and empower them to weather turbulent times in the housing market . My administration brought together the HOPE NOW Alliance , which is helping many struggling homeowners avoid foreclosure . And Congress can help even more . Tonight I ask you to pass legislation to reform Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac , modernize the Federal Housing Administration , and allow state housing agencies to issue tax free bonds to help homeowners refinance their mortgages . These are difficult times for many American families , and by taking these steps , we can help more of them keep their homes . To build a future of quality health care , we must trust patients and doctors to make medical decisions and empower them with better information and better options . We share a common goal making health care more affordable and accessible for all Americans . The best way to achieve that goal is by expanding consumer choice , not government control . So I have proposed ending the bias in the Tax Code against those who do not get their health insurance through their employer . This one reform would put private coverage within reach for millions , and I call on the Congress to pass it this year . The Congress must also expand health savings accounts , create association health plans for small businesses , promote health information technology , and confront the epidemic of junk medical lawsuits . With all these steps , we will ensure that decisions about your medical care are made in the privacy of your doctor s office , not in the halls of Congress . On education , we must trust students to learn , if given the chance , and empower parents to demand results from our schools . In neighborhoods across our country , there are boys and girls with dreams , and a decent education is their only hope of achieving them . Six years ago , we came together to pass the No Child Left Behind Act , and today , no one can deny its results . Last year , fourth and eighth graders achieved the highest math scores on record . Reading scores are on the rise . African American and Hispanic students posted alltime highs . Now we must work together to increase accountability , add flexibilities for states and districts , reduce the number of high school dropouts , provide extra help for struggling schools . Members of Congress , the No Child Left Behind Act is a bipartisan achievement . It is succeeding . And we owe it to America s children , their parents , and their teachers to strengthen this good law . We must also do more to help children when their schools do not measure up . Thanks to the DC Opportunity Scholarships you approved , more than 2 , 600 of the poorest children in our nation s capital have found new hope at a faith based or other non public school . Sadly , these schools are disappearing at an alarming rate in many of America s inner cities . So I will convene a White House summit aimed at strengthening these lifelines of learning . And to open the doors of these schools to more children , I ask you to support a new 300 million program called Pell Grants for Kids . We have seen how Pell Grants help low income college students realize their full potential . Together we have expanded the size and reach of these grants . Now let us apply the same spirit to help liberate poor children trapped in failing public schools . On trade , we must trust American workers to compete with anyone in the world and empower them by opening up new markets overseas . Today , our economic growth increasingly depends on our ability to sell American goods and crops and services all over the world . So we are working to break down barriers to trade and investment wherever we can . We are working for a successful Doha round of trade talks , and we must complete a good agreement this year . At the same time , we are pursuing opportunities to open up new markets by passing free trade agreements . I thank the Congress for approving a good agreement with Peru . And now I ask you to approve agreements with Colombia and Panama and South Korea . Many products from these nations now enter America duty free , yet many of our products face steep tariffs in their markets . These agreements will level the playing field . They will give us better access to nearly 100 million customers . They will support good jobs for the finest workers in the world , those whose products say Made in the USA . These agreements also promote America s strategic interests . The first agreement that will come before you is with Colombia , a friend of America that is confronting violence and terror and fighting drug traffickers . If we fail to pass this agreement , we will embolden the purveyors of false populism in our hemisphere . So we must come together , pass this agreement , and show our neighbors in the region that democracy leads to a better life . Trade brings better jobs and better choices and better prices . Yet for some Americans , trade can mean losing a job , and the federal government has a responsibility to help . I ask Congress to reauthorize and reform trade adjustment assistance so we can help these displaced workers learn new skills and find new jobs . To build a future of energy security , we must trust in the creative genius of American researchers and entrepreneurs and empower them to pioneer a new generation of clean energy technology . Our security , our prosperity , and our environment all require reducing our dependence on oil . Last year , I asked you to pass legislation to reduce oil consumption over the next decade , and you responded . Together we should take the next steps . Let us fund new technologies that can generate coal power while capturing carbon emissions . Let us increase the use of renewable power and emissions free nuclear power . Let us continue investing in advanced battery technology and renewable fuels to power the cars and trucks of the future . Let us create a new international clean technology fund , which will help developing nations like India and China make a greater use of clean energy sources . And let us complete an international agreement that has the potential to slow , stop , and eventually reverse the growth of greenhouse gases . This agreement will be effective only if it includes commitments by every major economy and gives none a free ride . The United States is committed to strengthening our energy security and confronting global climate change . And the best way to meet these goals is for America to continue leading the way toward the development of cleaner and more energy efficient technology . To keep America competitive into the future , we must trust in the skill of our scientists and engineers and empower them to pursue the breakthroughs of tomorrow . Last year , Congress passed legislation supporting the American Competitiveness Initiative , but never followed through with the funding . This funding is essential to keeping our scientific edge . So I ask Congress to double federal support for critical basic research in the physical sciences and ensure America remains the most dynamic nation on Earth . On matters of life and science , we must trust in the innovative spirit of medical researchers and empower them to discover new treatments while respecting moral boundaries . In November , we witnessed a landmark achievement when scientists discovered a way to reprogram adult skin cells to act like embryonic stem cells . This breakthrough has the potential to move us beyond the divisive debates of the past by extending the frontiers of medicine without the destruction of human life . So we are expanding funding for this type of ethical medical research . And as we explore promising avenues of research , we must also ensure that all life is treated with the dignity it deserves . And so I call on Congress to pass legislation that bans unethical practices , such as the buying , selling , patenting , or cloning of human life . On matters of justice , we must trust in the wisdom of our Founders and empower judges who understand that the Constitution means what it says . I have submitted judicial nominees who will rule by the letter of the law , not the whim of the gavel . Many of these nominees are being unfairly delayed . They are worthy of confirmation , and the Senate should give each of them a prompt up or down vote . In communities across our land , we must trust in the good heart of the American people and empower them to serve their neighbors in need . Over the past seven years , more of our fellow citizens have discovered that the pursuit of happiness leads to the path of service . Americans have volunteered in record numbers . Charitable donations are higher than ever . Faith based groups are bringing hope to pockets of despair , with newfound support from the federal government . And to help guarantee equal treatment of faith based organizations when they compete for federal funds , I ask you to permanently extend charitable choice . Tonight the armies of compassion continue the march to a new day in the gulf coast . America honors the strength and resilience of the people of this region . We reaffirm our pledge to help them build stronger and better than before . And tonight I am pleased to announce that in April , we will host this year s North American Summit of Canada , Mexico , and the United States in the great city of New Orleans . There are two other pressing challenges that I have raised repeatedly before this body and that this body has failed to address entitlement spending and immigration . Every member in this chamber knows that spending on entitlement programs like Social Security , Medicare , and Medicaid is growing faster than we can afford . We all know the painful choices ahead if America stays on this path massive tax increases , sudden and drastic cuts in benefits , or crippling deficits . I have laid out proposals to reform these programs . Now I ask members of Congress to offer your proposals and come up with a bipartisan solution to save these vital programs for our children and our grandchildren . The other pressing challenge is immigration . America needs to secure our borders , and with your help , my administration is taking steps to do so . We are increasing worksite enforcement , deploying fences and advanced technologies to stop illegal crossings . We have effectively ended the policy of catch and release at the border , and by the end of this year , we will have doubled the number of Border Patrol agents . Yet we also need to acknowledge that we will never fully secure our border until we create a lawful way for foreign workers to come here and support our economy . This will take pressure off the border and allow law enforcement to concentrate on those who mean us harm . We must also find a sensible and humane way to deal with people here illegally . Illegal immigration is complicated , but it can be resolved . And it must be resolved in a way that upholds both our laws and our highest ideals . This is the business of our nation here at home . Yet building a prosperous future for our citizen also depends on confronting enemies abroad and advancing liberty in troubled regions of the world . Our foreign policy is based on a clear premise We trust that people , when given the chance , will choose a future of freedom and peace . In the last seven years , we have witnessed stirring moments in the history of liberty . We have seen citizens in Georgia and Ukraine stand up for their right to free and fair elections . We have seen people in Lebanon take to the streets to demand their independence . We have seen Afghans emerge from the tyranny of the Taliban and choose a new President and a new Parliament . We have seen jubilant Iraqis holding up ink stained fingers and celebrating their freedom . These images of liberty have inspired us . In the past seven years , we have also seen the images that have sobered us . We have watched throngs of mourners in Lebanon and Pakistan carrying the caskets of beloved leaders taken by the assassin s hand . We have seen wedding guests in blood soaked finery staggering from a hotel in Jordan , Afghans and Iraqis blown up in mosques and markets , and trains in London and Madrid ripped apart by bombs . On a clear September day , we saw thousands of our fellow citizens taken from us in an instant . These horrific images serve as a grim reminder The advance of liberty is opposed by terrorists and extremists , evil men who despise freedom , despise America , and aim to subject millions to their violent rule . Since 9 11 , we have taken the fight to these terrorists and extremists . We will stay on the offense we will keep up the pressure and we will deliver justice to our enemies . We are engaged in the defining ideological struggle of the 21st century . The terrorists oppose every principle of humanity and decency that we hold dear . Yet in this war on terror , there is one thing we and our enemies agree on In the long run , men and women who are free to determine their own destinies will reject terror and refuse to live in tyranny . And that is why the terrorists are fighting to deny this choice to the people in Lebanon , Iraq , Afghanistan , Pakistan , and the Palestinian Territories . And that is why , for the security of America and the peace of the world , we are spreading the hope of freedom . In Afghanistan , America , our 25 NATO allies , and 15 partner nations are helping the Afghan people defend their freedom and rebuild their country . Thanks to the courage of these military and civilian personnel , a nation that was once a safe haven for Al Qaeda is now a young democracy where boys and girls are going to school , new roads and hospitals are being built , and people are looking to the future with new hope . These successes must continue , so we are adding 3 , 200 marines to our forces in Afghanistan , where they will fight the terrorists and train the Afghan Army and police . Defeating the Taliban and Al Qaeda is critical to our security , and I thank the Congress for supporting America s vital mission in Afghanistan . In Iraq , the terrorists and extremists are fighting to deny a proud people their liberty and fighting to establish safe havens for attacks across the world . One year ago , our enemies were succeeding in their efforts to plunge Iraq into chaos . So we reviewed our strategy and changed course . We launched a surge of American forces into Iraq . We gave our troops a new mission Work with the Iraqi forces to protect the Iraqi people pursue the enemy in its strongholds and deny the terrorists sanctuary anywhere in the country . The Iraqi people quickly realized that something dramatic had happened . Those who had worried that America was preparing to abandon them instead saw tens of thousands of American forces flowing into their country . They saw our forces moving into neighborhoods , clearing out the terrorists , and staying behind to ensure the enemy did not return . And they saw our troops , along with Provincial Reconstruction Teams that include Foreign Service officers and other skilled public servants , coming in to ensure that improved security was followed by improvements in daily life . Our military and civilians in Iraq are performing with courage and distinction , and they have the gratitude of our whole nation . The Iraqis launched a surge of their own . In the fall of 2006 , Sunni tribal leaders grew tired of Al Qaeda s brutality , started a popular uprising called the Anbar Awakening . Over the past year , similar movements have spread across the country . And today , the grassroots surge includes more than 80 , 000 Iraqi citizens who are fighting the terrorists . The government in Baghdad has stepped forward as well , adding more than 100 , 000 new Iraqi soldiers and police during the past year . While the enemy is still dangerous and more work remains , the American and Iraqi surges have achieved results few of us could have imagined just one year ago . When we met last year , many said that containing the violence was impossible . A year later , high profile terrorist attacks are down , civilian deaths are down , sectarian killings are down . When we met last year , militia extremists some armed and trained by Iran were wreaking havoc in large areas of Iraq . A year later , coalition and Iraqi forces have killed or captured hundreds of militia fighters . And Iraqis of all backgrounds increasingly realize that defeating these militia fighters is critical to the future of their country . When we met last year , Al Qaeda had sanctuaries in many areas of Iraq , and their leaders had just offered American forces safe passage out of the country . Today , it is Al Qaeda that is searching for safe passage . They have been driven from many of the strongholds they once held . And over the past year , we have captured or killed thousands of extremists in Iraq , including hundreds of key Al Qaeda leaders and operatives . Last month , Osama bin Laden released a tape in which he railed against Iraqi tribal leaders who have turned on Al Qaeda and admitted that coalition forces are growing stronger in Iraq . Ladies and gentlemen , some may deny the surge is working , but among the terrorists there is no doubt . Al Qaeda is on the run in Iraq , and this enemy will be defeated . When we met last year , our troop levels in Iraq were on the rise . Today , because of the progress just described , we are implementing a policy of return on success , and the surge forces we sent to Iraq are beginning to come home . This progress is a credit to the valor of our troops and the brilliance of their commanders . This evening I want to speak directly to our men and women on the frontlines . Soldiers and sailors , airmen , marines , and coast guardsmen In the past year , you have done everything we have asked of you and more . Our nation is grateful for your courage . We are proud of your accomplishments . And tonight in this hallowed chamber , with the American people as our witness , we make you a solemn pledge In the fight ahead , you will have all you need to protect our nation . And I ask Congress to meet its responsibilities to these brave men and women by fully funding our troops . Our enemies in Iraq have been hit hard . They are not yet defeated , and we can still expect tough fighting ahead . Our objective in the coming year is to sustain and build on the gains we made in 2007 while transitioning to the next phase of our strategy . American troops are shifting from leading operations to partnering with Iraqi forces and , eventually , to a protective overwatch mission . As part of this transition , one Army brigade combat team and one Marine expeditionary unit have already come home and will not be replaced . In the coming months , four additional brigades and two Marine battalions will follow suit . Taken together , this means more than 20 , 000 of our troops are coming home . Any further drawdown of troops will be based on conditions in Iraq and the recommendations of our commanders . General Petraeus has warned that too fast a drawdown could result in , quote , the disintegration of the Iraqi security forces , Al Qaeda Iraq regaining lost ground , and a marked increase in violence . Members of Congress , having come so far and achieved so much , we must not allow this to happen . In the coming year , we will work with Iraqi leaders as they build on the progress they are making toward political reconciliation . At the local level , Sunnis , Shi a , and Kurds are beginning to come together to reclaim their communities and rebuild their lives . Progress in the provinces must be matched by progress in Baghdad . We are seeing some encouraging signs . The national government is sharing oil revenues with the provinces . The Parliament recently passed both a pension law and de Ba athification reform . They are now debating a provincial powers law . The Iraqis still have a distance to travel , but after decades of dictatorship and the pain of sectarian violence , reconciliation is taking place , and the Iraqi people are taking control of their future . The mission in Iraq has been difficult and trying for our nation . But it is in the vital interest of the United States that we succeed . A free Iraq will deny Al Qaeda a safe haven . A free Iraq will show millions across the Middle East that a future of liberty is possible . A free Iraq will be a friend of America , a partner in fighting terror , and a source of stability in a dangerous part of the world . By contrast , a failed Iraq would embolden the extremists , strengthen Iran , and give terrorists a base from which to launch new attacks on our friends , our allies , and our homeland . The enemy has made its intentions clear . At a time when the momentum seemed to favor them , Al Qaeda s top commander in Iraq declared that they will not rest until they have attacked us here in Washington . My fellow Americans , we will not rest either . We will not rest until this enemy has been defeated . We must do the difficult work today so that years from now , people will look back and say that this generation rose to the moment , prevailed in a tough fight , and left behind a more hopeful region and a safer America . We are also standing against the forces of extremism in the Holy Land , where we have new cause for hope . Palestinians have elected a President who recognizes that confronting terror is essential to achieving a state where his people can live in dignity and at peace with Israel . Israelis have leaders who recognize that a peaceful , democratic Palestinian state will be a source of lasting security . This month in Ramallah and Jerusalem , I assured leaders from both sides that America will do , and I will do , everything we can to help them achieve a peace agreement that defines a Palestinian state by the end of this year . The time has come for a Holy Land where a democratic Israel and a democratic Palestine live side by side in peace . We are also standing against the forces of extremism embodied by the regime in Tehran . Iran s rulers oppress a good and talented people . And wherever freedom advances in the Middle East , it seems the Iranian regime is there to oppose it . Iran is funding and training militia groups in Iraq , supporting Hizballah terrorists in Lebanon , and backing Hamas efforts to undermine peace in the Holy Land . Tehran is also developing ballistic missiles of increasing range and continues to develop its capability to enrich uranium , which could be used to create a nuclear weapon . Our message to the people of Iran is clear We have no quarrel with you . We respect your traditions and your history . We look forward to the day when you have your freedom . Our message to the leaders of Iran is also clear Verifiably suspend your nuclear enrichment so negotiations can begin . And to rejoin the community of nations , come clean about your nuclear intentions and past actions , stop your oppression at home , cease your support for terror abroad . But above all , know this America will confront those who threaten our troops we will stand by our allies and we will defend our vital interests in the Persian Gulf . On the homefront , we will continue to take every lawful and effective measure to protect our country . This is our most solemn duty . We are grateful that there has not been another attack on our soil since 9 11 . This is not for the lack of desire or effort on the part of the enemy . In the past six years , we have stopped numerous attacks , including a plot to fly a plane into the tallest building in Los Angeles and another to blow up passenger jets bound for America over the Atlantic . Dedicated men and women in our government toil day and night to stop the terrorists from carrying out their plans . These good citizens are saving American lives , and everyone in this chamber owes them our thanks . And we owe them something more we owe them the tools they need to keep our people safe . And one of the most important tools we can give them is the ability to monitor terrorist communications . To protect America , we need to know who the terrorists are talking to , what they are saying , and what they are planning . Last year , Congress passed legislation to help us do that . Unfortunately , Congress set the legislations to expire on February 1 . That means if you do not act by Friday , our ability to track terrorist threats would be weakened and our citizens will be in greater danger . Congress must ensure the flow of vital intelligence is not disrupted . Congress must pass liability protection for companies believed to have assisted in the efforts to defend America . We have had ample time for debate . The time to act is now . Protecting our nation from the dangers of a new century requires more than good intelligence and a strong military . It also requires changing the conditions that breed resentment and allow extremists to prey on despair . So America is using its influence to build a freer , more hopeful , and more compassionate world . This is a reflection of our national interests it is the calling of our conscience . America opposes genocide in Sudan . We support freedom in countries from Cuba and Zimbabwe to Belarus and Burma . America is leading the fight against global poverty with strong education initiatives and humanitarian assistance . We have also changed the way we deliver aid by launching the Millennium Challenge Account . This program strengthens democracy , transparency , and the rule of law in developing nations , and I ask you to fully fund this important initiative . America is leading the fight against global hunger . Today , more than half the world s food aid comes from the United States . And tonight I ask Congress to support an innovative proposal to provide food assistance by purchasing crops directly from farmers in the developing world , so we can build up local agriculture and help break the cycle of famine . America is leading the fight against disease . With your help , we are working to cut by half the number of malaria related deaths in 15 African nations . And our Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief is treating 1 . 4 million people . We can bring healing and hope to many more . So I ask you to maintain the principles that have changed behavior and made this program a success . And I call on you to double our initial commitment to fighting HIV AIDS by approving an additional 30 billion over the next five years . America is a force for hope in the world because we are a compassionate people , and some of the most compassionate Americans are those who have stepped forward to protect us . We must keep faith with all who have risked life and limb so that we might live in freedom and peace . Over the past seven years , we have increased funding for veterans by more than 95 percent . And as we increase funding , we must also reform our veterans system to meet the needs of a new war and a new generation . I call on Congress to enact the reforms recommended by Senator Bob Dole and Secretary Donna Shalala , so we can improve the system of care for our wounded warriors and help them build lives of hope and promise and dignity . Our military families also sacrifice for America . They endure sleepless nights and the daily struggle of providing for children while a loved one is serving far from home . We have a responsibility to provide for them . So I ask you to join me in expanding their access to child care , creating new hiring preferences for military spouses across the federal government , and allowing our troops to transfer their unused education benefits to their spouses or children . Our military families serve our nation they inspire our nation and tonight our nation honors them . The strength the secret of our strength , the miracle of America is that our greatness lies not in our government , but in the spirit and determination of our people . When the federal convention met in Philadelphia in 1787 , our nation was bound by the Articles of Confederation , which began with the words , We the undersigned delegates . When Governor Morris was asked to draft the preamble to our new Constitution , he offered an important revision and opened with words that changed the course of our nation and the history of the world We the people . By trusting the people , our Founders wagered that a great and noble nation could be built on the liberty that resides in the hearts of all men and women . By trusting the people , succeeding generations transformed our fragile young democracy into the most powerful nation on Earth and a beacon of hope for millions . And so long as we continue to trust the people , our nation will prosper , our liberty will be secure , and the state of our Union will remain strong . So tonight , with confidence in freedom s power and trust in the people , let us set forth to do their business . God bless America .<speech_sep>President Clinton , distinguished guests and my fellow citizens , the peaceful transfer of authority is rare in history , yet common in our country . With a simple oath , we affirm old traditions and make new beginnings . As I begin , I thank President Clinton for his service to our nation . And I thank Vice President Gore for a contest conducted with spirit and ended with grace . I am honored and humbled to stand here , where so many of America s leaders have come before me , and so many will follow . We have a place , all of us , in a long story a story we continue , but whose end we will not see . It is the story of a new world that became a friend and liberator of the old , a story of a slave holding society that became a servant of freedom , the story of a power that went into the world to protect but not possess , to defend but not to conquer . It is the American story a story of flawed and fallible people , united across the generations by grand and enduring ideals . The grandest of these ideals is an unfolding American promise that everyone belongs , that everyone deserves a chance , that no insignificant person was ever born . Americans are called to enact this promise in our lives and in our laws . And though our nation has sometimes halted , and sometimes delayed , we must follow no other course . Through much of the last century , America s faith in freedom and democracy was a rock in a raging sea . Now it is a seed upon the wind , taking root in many nations . Our democratic faith is more than the creed of our country , it is the inborn hope of our humanity , an ideal we carry but do not own , a trust we bear and pass along . And even after nearly 225 years , we have a long way yet to travel . While many of our citizens prosper , others doubt the promise , even the justice , of our own country . The ambitions of some Americans are limited by failing schools and hidden prejudice and the circumstances of their birth . And sometimes our differences run so deep , it seems we share a continent , but not a country . We do not accept this , and we will not allow it . Our unity , our union , is the serious work of leaders and citizens in every generation . And this is my solemn pledge I will work to build a single nation of justice and opportunity . I know this is in our reach because we are guided by a power larger than ourselves who creates us equal in His image . And we are confident in principles that unite and lead us onward . America has never been united by blood or birth or soil . We are bound by ideals that move us beyond our backgrounds , lift us above our interests and teach us what it means to be citizens . Every child must be taught these principles . Every citizen must uphold them . And every immigrant , by embracing these ideals , makes our country more , not less , American . Today , we affirm a new commitment to live out our nation s promise through civility , courage , compassion and character . America , at its best , matches a commitment to principle with a concern for civility . A civil society demands from each of us good will and respect , fair dealing and forgiveness . Some seem to believe that our politics can afford to be petty because , in a time of peace , the stakes of our debates appear small . But the stakes for America are never small . If our country does not lead the cause of freedom , it will not be led . If we do not turn the hearts of children toward knowledge and character , we will lose their gifts and undermine their idealism . If we permit our economy to drift and decline , the vulnerable will suffer most . We must live up to the calling we share . Civility is not a tactic or a sentiment . It is the determined choice of trust over cynicism , of community over chaos . And this commitment , if we keep it , is a way to shared accomplishment . America , at its best , is also courageous . Our national courage has been clear in times of depression and war , when defending common dangers defined our common good . Now we must choose if the example of our fathers and mothers will inspire us or condemn us . We must show courage in a time of blessing by confronting problems instead of passing them on to future generations . Together , we will reclaim America s schools , before ignorance and apathy claim more young lives . We will reform Social Security and Medicare , sparing our children from struggles we have the power to prevent . And we will reduce taxes , to recover the momentum of our economy and reward the effort and enterprise of working Americans . We will build our defenses beyond challenge , lest weakness invite challenge . We will confront weapons of mass destruction , so that a new century is spared new horrors . The enemies of liberty and our country should make no mistake America remains engaged in the world by history and by choice , shaping a balance of power that favors freedom . We will defend our allies and our interests . We will show purpose without arrogance . We will meet aggression and bad faith with resolve and strength . And to all nations , we will speak for the values that gave our nation birth . America , at its best , is compassionate . In the quiet of American conscience , we know that deep , persistent poverty is unworthy of our nation s promise . And whatever our views of its cause , we can agree that children at risk are not at fault . Abandonment and abuse are not acts of God , they are failures of love . And the proliferation of prisons , however necessary , is no substitute for hope and order in our souls . Where there is suffering , there is duty . Americans in need are not strangers , they are citizens , not problems , but priorities . And all of us are diminished when any are hopeless . Government has great responsibilities for public safety and public health , for civil rights and common schools . Yet compassion is the work of a nation , not just a government . And some needs and hurts are so deep they will only respond to a mentor s touch or a pastor s prayer . Church and charity , synagogue and mosque lend our communities their humanity , and they will have an honored place in our plans and in our laws . Many in our country do not know the pain of poverty , but we can listen to those who do . And I can pledge our nation to a goal When we see that wounded traveler on the road to Jericho , we will not pass to the other side . America , at its best , is a place where personal responsibility is valued and expected . Encouraging responsibility is not a search for scapegoats , it is a call to conscience . And though it requires sacrifice , it brings a deeper fulfillment . We find the fullness of life not only in options , but in commitments . And we find that children and community are the commitments that set us free . Our public interest depends on private character , on civic duty and family bonds and basic fairness , on uncounted , unhonored acts of decency which give direction to our freedom . Sometimes in life we are called to do great things . But as a saint of our times has said , every day we are called to do small things with great love . The most important tasks of a democracy are done by everyone . I will live and lead by these principles to advance my convictions with civility , to pursue the public interest with courage , to speak for greater justice and compassion , to call for responsibility and try to live it as well . In all these ways , I will bring the values of our history to the care of our times . What you do is as important as anything government does . I ask you to seek a common good beyond your comfort to defend needed reforms against easy attacks to serve your nation , beginning with your neighbor . I ask you to be citizens citizens , not spectators citizens , not subjects responsible citizens , building communities of service and a nation of character . Americans are generous and strong and decent , not because we believe in ourselves , but because we hold beliefs beyond ourselves . When this spirit of citizenship is missing , no government program can replace it . When this spirit is present , no wrong can stand against it . After the Declaration of Independence was signed , Virginia statesman John Page wrote to Thomas Jefferson We know the race is not to the swift nor the battle to the strong . Do you not think an angel rides in the whirlwind and directs this storm Much time has passed since Jefferson arrived for his inauguration . The years and changes accumulate . But the themes of this day he would know our nation s grand story of courage and its simple dream of dignity . We are not this story s author , who fills time and eternity with his purpose . Yet his purpose is achieved in our duty , and our duty is fulfilled in service to one another . Never tiring , never yielding , never finishing , we renew that purpose today , to make our country more just and generous , to affirm the dignity of our lives and every life . This work continues . This story goes on . And an angel still rides in the whirlwind and directs this storm . God bless you all , and God bless America .<speech_sep>Good evening . Today , our fellow citizens , our way of life , our very freedom came under attack in a series of deliberate and deadly terrorist acts . The victims were in airplanes , or in their offices secretaries , businessmen and women , military and federal workers moms and dads , friends and neighbors . Thousands of lives were suddenly ended by evil , despicable acts of terror . The pictures of airplanes flying into buildings , fires burning , huge structures collapsing , have filled us with disbelief , terrible sadness , and a quiet , unyielding anger . These acts of mass murder were intended to frighten our nation into chaos and retreat . But they have failed our country is strong . A great people has been moved to defend a great nation . Terrorist attacks can shake the foundations of our biggest buildings , but they cannot touch the foundation of America . These acts shattered steel , but they cannot dent the steel of American resolve . America was targeted for attack because we are the brightest beacon for freedom and opportunity in the world . And no one will keep that light from shining . Today , our nation saw evil , the very worst of human nature . And we responded with the best of America with the daring of our rescue workers , with the caring for strangers and neighbors who came to give blood and help in any way they could . Immediately following the first attack , I implemented our government s emergency response plans . Our military is powerful , and it is prepared . Our emergency teams are working in New York City and Washington , to help with local rescue efforts . Our first priority is to get help to those who have been injured , and to take every precaution to protect our citizens at home and around the world from further attacks . The functions of our government continue without interruption . Federal agencies in Washington which had to be evacuated today are reopening for essential personnel tonight , and will be open for business tomorrow . Our financial institutions remain strong , and the American economy will be open for business , as well . The search is underway for those who are behind these evil acts . I have directed the full resources of our intelligence and law enforcement communities to find those responsible and to bring them to justice . We will make no distinction between the terrorists who committed these acts and those who harbor them . I appreciate so very much the members of Congress who have joined me in strongly condemning these attacks . And on behalf of the American people , I thank the many world leaders who have called to offer their condolences and assistance . America and our friends and allies join with all those who want peace and security in the world , and we stand together to win the war against terrorism . Tonight , I ask for your prayers for all those who grieve , for the children whose worlds have been shattered , for all whose sense of safety and security has been threatened . And I pray they will be comforted by a power greater than any of us , spoken through the ages in Psalm 23 Even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death , I fear no evil , for You are with me . This is a day when all Americans from every walk of life unite in our resolve for justice and peace . America has stood down enemies before , and we will do so this time . None of us will ever forget this day . Yet , we go forward to defend freedom and all that is good and just in our world . Thank you . Good night , and God bless America .<speech_sep>Thank you all very much . Please be seated . Thanks for the warm welcome , and thanks for inviting me to join you in this 20th anniversary of the National Endowment for Democracy . The staff and directors of this organization have seen a lot of history over the last two decades , you have been a part of that history . By speaking for and standing for freedom , you have lifted the hopes of people around the world , and you have brought great credit to America . I appreciate Vin for the short introduction . I am a man who likes short introductions . And he did not let me down . But more importantly , I appreciate the invitation . I appreciate the members of Congress who are here , senators from both political parties , members of the House of Representatives from both political parties . I appreciate the ambassadors who are here . I appreciate the guests who have come . I appreciate the bipartisan spirit , the nonpartisan spirit of the National Endowment for Democracy . I am glad that Republicans and Democrats and independents are working together to advance human liberty . The roots of our democracy can be traced to England , and to its Parliament and so can the roots of this organization . In June of 1982 , President Ronald Reagan spoke at Westminster Palace and declared , the turning point had arrived in history . He argued that Soviet communism had failed , precisely because it did not respect its own people their creativity , their genius and their rights . President Reagan said that the day of Soviet tyranny was passing , that freedom had a momentum which would not be halted . He gave this organization its mandate to add to the momentum of freedom across the world . Your mandate was important 20 years ago it is equally important today . A number of critics were dismissive of that speech by the President . According to one editorial of the time , It seems hard to be a sophisticated European and also an admirer of Ronald Reagan . Some observers on both sides of the Atlantic pronounced the speech simplistic and naive , and even dangerous . In fact , Ronald Reagan s words were courageous and optimistic and entirely correct . The great democratic movement President Reagan described was already well underway . In the early 1970s , there were about 40 democracies in the world . By the middle of that decade , Portugal and Spain and Greece held free elections . Soon there were new democracies in Latin America , and free institutions were spreading in Korea , in Taiwan , and in East Asia . This very week in 1989 , there were protests in East Berlin and in Leipzig . By the end of that year , every communist dictatorship in Central America had collapsed . Within another year , the South African government released Nelson Mandela . Four years later , he was elected president of his country ascending , like Walesa and Havel , from prisoner of state to head of state . As the 20th century ended , there were around 120 democracies in the world and I can assure you more are on the way . Ronald Reagan would be pleased , and he would not be surprised . We have witnessed , in little over a generation , the swiftest advance of freedom in the 2 , 500 year story of democracy . Historians in the future will offer their own explanations for why this happened . Yet we already know some of the reasons they will cite . It is no accident that the rise of so many democracies took place in a time when the world s most influential nation was itself a democracy . The United States made military and moral commitments in Europe and Asia , which protected free nations from aggression , and created the conditions in which new democracies could flourish . As we provided security for whole nations , we also provided inspiration for oppressed peoples . In prison camps , in banned union meetings , in clandestine churches , men and women knew that the whole world was not sharing their own nightmare . They knew of at least one place a bright and hopeful land where freedom was valued and secure . And they prayed that America would not forget them , or forget the mission to promote liberty around the world . Historians will note that in many nations , the advance of markets and free enterprise helped to create a middle class that was confident enough to demand their own rights . They will point to the role of technology in frustrating censorship and central control and marvel at the power of instant communications to spread the truth , the news , and courage across borders . Historians in the future will reflect on an extraordinary , undeniable fact Over time , free nations grow stronger and dictatorships grow weaker . In the middle of the 20th century , some imagined that the central planning and social regimentation were a shortcut to national strength . In fact , the prosperity , and social vitality and technological progress of a people are directly determined by extent of their liberty . Freedom honors and unleashes human creativity and creativity determines the strength and wealth of nations . Liberty is both the plan of Heaven for humanity , and the best hope for progress here on Earth . The progress of liberty is a powerful trend . Yet , we also know that liberty , if not defended , can be lost . The success of freedom is not determined by some dialectic of history . By definition , the success of freedom rests upon the choices and the courage of free peoples , and upon their willingness to sacrifice . In the trenches of World War through a two front war in the 1940s , the difficult battles of Korea and Vietnam , and in missions of rescue and liberation on nearly every continent , Americans have amply displayed our willingness to sacrifice for liberty . The sacrifices of Americans have not always been recognized or appreciated , yet they have been worthwhile . Because we and our allies were steadfast , Germany and Japan are democratic nations that no longer threaten the world . A global nuclear standoff with the Soviet Union ended peacefully as did the Soviet Union . The nations of Europe are moving towards unity , not dividing into armed camps and descending into genocide . Every nation has learned , or should have learned , an important lesson Freedom is worth fighting for , dying for , and standing for and the advance of freedom leads to peace . And now we must apply that lesson in our own time . We have reached another great turning point and the resolve we show will shape the next stage of the world democratic movement . Our commitment to democracy is tested in countries like Cuba and Burma and North Korea and Zimbabwe outposts of oppression in our world . The people in these nations live in captivity , and fear and silence . Yet , these regimes cannot hold back freedom forever and , one day , from prison camps and prison cells , and from exile , the leaders of new democracies will arrive . Communism , and militarism and rule by the capricious and corrupt are the relics of a passing era . And we will stand with these oppressed peoples until the day of their freedom finally arrives . Our commitment to democracy is tested in China . That nation now has a sliver , a fragment of liberty . Yet , China s people will eventually want their liberty pure and whole . China has discovered that economic freedom leads to national wealth . China s leaders will also discover that freedom is indivisible that social and religious freedom is also essential to national greatness and national dignity . Eventually , men and women who are allowed to control their own wealth will insist on controlling their own lives and their own country . Our commitment to democracy is also tested in the Middle East , which is my focus today , and must be a focus of American policy for decades to come . In many nations of the Middle East countries of great strategic importance democracy has not yet taken root . And the questions arise Are the peoples of the Middle East somehow beyond the reach of liberty Are millions of men and women and children condemned by history or culture to live in despotism Are they alone never to know freedom , and never even to have a choice in the matter for one , do not believe it . I believe every person has the ability and the right to be free . Some skeptics of democracy assert that the traditions of Islam are inhospitable to the representative government . This cultural condescension , as Ronald Reagan termed it , has a long history . After the Japanese surrender in 1945 , a so called Japan expert asserted that democracy in that former empire would never work . Another observer declared the prospects for democracy in post Hitler Germany are , and I quote , most uncertain at best he made that claim in 1957 . Seventy four years ago , The Sunday London Times declared nine tenths of the population of India to be illiterates not caring a fig for politics . Yet when Indian democracy was imperiled in the 1970s , the Indian people showed their commitment to liberty in a national referendum that saved their form of government . Time after time , observers have questioned whether this country , or that people , or this group , are ready for democracy as if freedom were a prize you win for meeting our own Western standards of progress . In fact , the daily work of democracy itself is the path of progress . It teaches cooperation , the free exchange of ideas , and the peaceful resolution of differences . As men and women are showing , from Bangladesh to Botswana , to Mongolia , it is the practice of democracy that makes a nation ready for democracy , and every nation can start on this path . It should be clear to all that Islam the faith of one fifth of humanity is consistent with democratic rule . Democratic progress is found in many predominantly Muslim countries in Turkey and Indonesia , and Senegal and Albania , Niger and Sierra Leone . Muslim men and women are good citizens of India and South Africa , of the nations of Western Europe , and of the United States of America . More than half of all the Muslims in the world live in freedom under democratically constituted governments . They succeed in democratic societies , not in spite of their faith , but because of it . A religion that demands individual moral accountability , and encourages the encounter of the individual with God , is fully compatible with the rights and responsibilities of self government . Yet there is a great challenge today in the Middle East . In the words of a recent report by Arab scholars , the global wave of democracy has and I quote barely reached the Arab states . They continue This freedom deficit undermines human development and is one of the most painful manifestations of lagging political development . The freedom deficit they describe has terrible consequences , of the people of the Middle East and for the world . In many Middle Eastern countries , poverty is deep and it is spreading , women lack rights and are denied schooling . Whole societies remain stagnant while the world moves ahead . These are not the failures of a culture or a religion . These are the failures of political and economic doctrines . As the colonial era passed away , the Middle East saw the establishment of many military dictatorships . Some rulers adopted the dogmas of socialism , seized total control of political parties and the media and universities . They allied themselves with the Soviet bloc and with international terrorism . Dictators in Iraq and Syria promised the restoration of national honor , a return to ancient glories . They have left instead a legacy of torture , oppression , misery , and ruin . Other men , and groups of men , have gained influence in the Middle East and beyond through an ideology of theocratic terror . Behind their language of religion is the ambition for absolute political power . Ruling cabals like the Taliban show their version of religious piety in public whippings of women , ruthless suppression of any difference or dissent , and support for terrorists who arm and train to murder the innocent . The Taliban promised religious purity and national pride . Instead , by systematically destroying a proud and working society , they left behind suffering and starvation . Many Middle Eastern governments now understand that military dictatorship and theocratic rule are a straight , smooth highway to nowhere . But some governments still cling to the old habits of central control . There are governments that still fear and repress independent thought and creativity , and private enterprise the human qualities that make for a strong and successful societies . Even when these nations have vast natural resources , they do not respect or develop their greatest resources the talent and energy of men and women working and living in freedom . Instead of dwelling on past wrongs and blaming others , governments in the Middle East need to confront real problems , and serve the true interests of their nations . The good and capable people of the Middle East all deserve responsible leadership . For too long , many people in that region have been victims and subjects they deserve to be active citizens . Governments across the Middle East and North Africa are beginning to see the need for change . Morocco has a diverse new parliament King Mohammed has urged it to extend the rights to women . Here is how His Majesty explained his reforms to parliament How can society achieve progress while women , who represent half the nation , see their rights violated and suffer as a result of injustice , violence , and marginalization , notwithstanding the dignity and justice granted to them by our glorious religion The King of Morocco is correct The future of Muslim nations will be better for all with the full participation of women . In Bahrain last year , citizens elected their own parliament for the first time in nearly three decades . Oman has extended the vote to all adult citizens Qatar has a new constitution Yemen has a multiparty political system Kuwait has a directly elected national assembly and Jordan held historic elections this summer . Recent surveys in Arab nations reveal broad support for political pluralism , the rule of law , and free speech . These are the stirrings of Middle Eastern democracy , and they carry the promise of greater change to come . As changes come to the Middle Eastern region , those with power should ask themselves Will they be remembered for resisting reform , or for leading it In Iran , the demand for democracy is strong and broad , as we saw last month when thousands gathered to welcome home Shirin Ebadi , the winner of the Nobel Peace Prize . The regime in Teheran must heed the democratic demands of the Iranian people , or lose its last claim to legitimacy . For the Palestinian people , the only path to independence and dignity and progress is the path of democracy . And the Palestinian leaders who block and undermine democratic reform , and feed hatred and encourage violence are not leaders at all . They are the main obstacles to peace , and to the success of the Palestinian people . The Saudi government is taking first steps toward reform , including a plan for gradual introduction of elections . By giving the Saudi people a greater role in their own society , the Saudi government can demonstrate true leadership in the region . The great and proud nation of Egypt has shown the way toward peace in the Middle East , and now should show the way toward democracy in the Middle East . Champions of democracy in the region understand that democracy is not perfect , it is not the path to utopia , but it is the only path to national success and dignity . As we watch and encourage reforms in the region , we are mindful that modernization is not the same as Westernization . Representative governments in the Middle East will reflect their own cultures . They will not , and should not , look like us . Democratic nations may be constitutional monarchies , federal republics , or parliamentary systems . And working democracies always need time to develop as did our own . We have taken a 200 year journey toward inclusion and justice and this makes us patient and understanding as other nations are at different stages of this journey . There are , however , essential principles common to every successful society , in every culture . Successful societies limit the power of the state and the power of the military so that governments respond to the will of the people , and not the will of an elite . Successful societies protect freedom with the consistent and impartial rule of law , instead of selecting applying selectively applying the law to punish political opponents . Successful societies allow room for healthy civic institutions for political parties and labor unions and independent newspapers and broadcast media . Successful societies guarantee religious liberty the right to serve and honor God without fear of persecution . Successful societies privatize their economies , and secure the rights of property . They prohibit and punish official corruption , and invest in the health and education of their people . They recognize the rights of women . And instead of directing hatred and resentment against others , successful societies appeal to the hopes of their own people . These vital principles are being applies in the nations of Afghanistan and Iraq . With the steady leadership of President Karzai , the people of Afghanistan are building a modern and peaceful government . Next month , 500 delegates will convene a national assembly in Kabul to approve a new Afghan constitution . The proposed draft would establish a bicameral parliament , set national elections next year , and recognize Afghanistan s Muslim identity , while protecting the rights of all citizens . Afghanistan faces continuing economic and security challenges it will face those challenges as a free and stable democracy . In Iraq , the Coalition Provisional Authority and the Iraqi Governing Council are also working together to build a democracy and after three decades of tyranny , this work is not easy . The former dictator ruled by terror and treachery , and left deeply ingrained habits of fear and distrust . Remnants of his regime , joined by foreign terrorists , continue their battle against order and against civilization . Our coalition is responding to recent attacks with precision raids , guided by intelligence provided by the Iraqis , themselves . And we are working closely with Iraqi citizens as they prepare a constitution , as they move toward free elections and take increasing responsibility for their own affairs . As in the defense of Greece in 1947 , and later in the Berlin Airlift , the strength and will of free peoples are now being tested before a watching world . And we will meet this test . Securing democracy in Iraq is the work of many hands . American and coalition forces are sacrificing for the peace of Iraq and for the security of free nations . Aid workers from many countries are facing danger to help the Iraqi people . The National Endowment for Democracy is promoting women s rights , and training Iraqi journalists , and teaching the skills of political participation . Iraqis , themselves police and borders guards and local officials are joining in the work and they are sharing in the sacrifice . This is a massive and difficult undertaking it is worth our effort , it is worth our sacrifice , because we know the stakes . The failure of Iraqi democracy would embolden terrorists around the world , increase dangers to the American people , and extinguish the hopes of millions in the region . Iraqi democracy will succeed and that success will send forth the news , from Damascus to Teheran that freedom can be the future of every nation . The establishment of a free Iraq at the heart of the Middle East will be a watershed event in the global democratic revolution . Sixty years of Western nations excusing and accommodating the lack of freedom in the Middle East did nothing to make us safe because in the long run , stability cannot be purchased at the expense of liberty . As long as the Middle East remains a place where freedom does not flourish , it will remain a place of stagnation , resentment , and violence ready for export . And with the spread of weapons that can bring catastrophic harm to our country and to our friends , it would be reckless to accept the status quo . Therefore , the United States has adopted a new policy , a forward strategy of freedom in the Middle East . This strategy requires the same persistence and energy and idealism we have shown before . And it will yield the same results . As in Europe , as in Asia , as in every region of the world , the advance of freedom leads to peace . The advance of freedom is the calling of our time it is the calling of our country . From the Fourteen Points to the Four Freedoms , to the Speech at Westminster , America has put our power at the service of principle . We believe that liberty is the design of nature we believe that liberty is the direction of history . We believe that human fulfillment and excellence come in the responsible exercise of liberty . And we believe that freedom the freedom we prize is not for us alone , it is the right and the capacity of all mankind . Working for the spread of freedom can be hard . Yet , America has accomplished hard tasks before . Our nation is strong we are strong of heart . And we are not alone . Freedom is finding allies in every country freedom finds allies in every culture . And as we meet the terror and violence of the world , we can be certain the author of freedom is not indifferent to the fate of freedom . With all the tests and all the challenges of our age , this is , above all , the age of liberty . Each of you at this Endowment is fully engaged in the great cause of liberty . And I thank you . May God bless your work . And may God continue to bless America .<speech_sep>Good morning , thanks for the warm welcome . In a few moments I will have the honor of signing an historic act of Congress into law . I am pleased that all of you are here to witness the greatest advance in health care coverage for America s seniors since the founding of Medicare . With the Medicare Act of 2003 , our government is finally bringing prescription drug coverage to the seniors of America . With this law , we are giving older Americans better choices and more control over their health care , so they can receive the modern medical care they deserve . With this law , we are providing more access to comprehensive exams , disease screenings , and other preventative care , so that seniors across this land can live better and healthier lives . With this law , we are creating Health Savings Accounts we do so , so that all Americans can put money away for their health care tax free . Our nation has the best health care system in the world . And we want our seniors to share in the benefits of that system . Our nation has made a promise , a solemn promise to America s seniors . We have pledged to help our citizens find affordable medical care in the later years of life . Lyndon Johnson established that commitment by signing the Medicare Act of 1965 . And today , by reforming and modernizing this vital program , we are honoring the commitments of Medicare to all our seniors . The point man in my administration on this issue was Secretary Tommy Thompson , and he and his team did a fabulous job of working with the Congress to get this important piece of legislation passed . Tommy , I want to thank you for your leadership . This bill passed the Congress because of the strong leadership of a handful of members , starting with the Speaker of the House Denny Hastert . Speaker Speaker was joined by Senator Bill Frist , the Senate Majority Leader of the Senate , in providing the leadership necessary to get this bill done . I want to thank you both . I appreciate the hard work of the House Majority Leader , Tom DeLay , in seeing that this bill was passed . I also appreciate the hard work of the Chairman of the Ways and Means Committee , Chairman Bill Thomas , for his good work . The Chairman of the Finance Committee in the Senate , Senator Chuck Grassley , did a noble job . And he was joined in this task by the Ranking Member of the Finance Committee , Senator Max Baucus of Montana . And the entire Senate effort was boosted by the efforts of a man from Louisiana , Senator John Breaux . And speaking about Louisiana , Billy Tauzin of the House of Representatives did great work on this bill . Senator Orrin Hatch from Utah made a significant contribution . Nancy Johnson , the House member from Connecticut , did a great job . Mike Bilirakis from Florida worked hard on this piece of legislation . I want to thank all the other members of the Congress and the Senate who have joined us . Thank you all for taking time out of your busy schedules to share in this historic moment . I appreciate Tom Scully , the Administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services , for his good work . The Director of the CDJulie Gerberding , is with us today . Julie , thank you for coming . The Food and Drug Administration Commissioner Mark McClellan is here . Jo Anne Barnhart , the Commissioner of the Social Security Administration , is with us . Thank you for coming , Jo Anne . Kay James who is the Director of the Office of Personnel Management , is with us . Thank you for coming , Kay . A lot of this happened this bill happened because of grassroots work . A lot of our fellow citizens took it upon themselves to agitate for change , to lobby on behalf of what is right . We had some governor support around the country Governor Craig Benson from New Hampshire is with us today . Governor , thank you for coming . But the groups that speak for the elderly did fantastic work on this legislation . See , there was a lot of pressure not to get something done for the wrong reasons , I might add . But Bill Novelli , the CEO of AARstood strong in representing the people he was supposed to represent and he worked hard to get this legislation passed . And , Bill , I want to thank you for your leadership . You were joined by Jim Parkel , who is the President of the AARJim , I want to thank you , as well , for doing what was right , for focusing on the needs of the seniors of our country . Jim Martin , the President of 60 Plus Association , worked hard . Charlie Jarvis , the Chairman and CEO of United Seniors Association , worked hard . Mike Maves , the Executive Vice President and CEO of the AMworked hard on this piece of legislation . Mary Martin , the Chairman of the Board of The Seniors Coalition , worked hard . The truth of the matter is , a lot of good people worked hard to get this important legislation done , and I thank you for your work . Medicare is a great achievement of a compassionate government and it is a basic trust we honor . Medicare has spared millions of seniors from needless hardship . Each generation benefits from Medicare . Each generation has a duty to strengthen Medicare . And this generation is fulfilling our duty . First and foremost , this new law will provide Medicare coverage for prescription drugs . Medicare was enacted to provide seniors with the latest in modern medicine . In 1965 , that usually meant house calls , or operations , or long hospital stays . Today , modern medicine includes out patient care , disease screenings , and prescription drugs . Medicine has changed , but Medicare has not until today . Medicare today will pay for extended hospital stays for ulcer surgery . That is at a cost of about 28 , 000 per patient . Yet Medicare will not pay for the drugs that eliminate the cause of most ulcers , drugs that cost about 500 a year . It is a good thing that Medicare pays when seniors get sick . Now , you see , we are taking this a step further Medicare will pay for prescription drugs , so that fewer seniors will get sick in the first place . Drug coverage under Medicare will allow seniors to replace more expensive surgeries and hospitalizations with less expensive prescription medicine . And even more important , drug coverage under Medicare will save our seniors from a lot of worry . Some older Americans spend much of their Social Security checks just on their medications . Some cut down on the dosage , to make a bottle of pills last longer . Elderly Americans should not have to live with those kinds of fears and hard choices . This new law will ease the burden on seniors and will give them the extra help they need . Seniors will start seeing help quickly . During the transition to the full prescription benefit , seniors will receive a drug discount card . This Medicare approved card will deliver savings of 10 to 25 percent off the retail price of most medicines . Low income seniors will receive the same savings , plus a 600 credit on their cards to help them pay for the medications they need . In about two years , full prescription coverage under Medicare will begin . In return for a monthly premium of about 35 , most seniors without any prescription drug coverage can now expect to see their current drug bills cut roughly in half . This new law will provide 95 percent coverage for out of pocket drug spending that exceeds 3 , 600 a year . For the first time , we are giving seniors peace of mind that they will not have to face unlimited expenses for their medicine . The new law offers special help to one third of older Americans will low incomes , such as a senior couple with low savings and an annual income of about 18 , 000 or less . These seniors will pay little or no premium for full drug coverage . Their deductible will be no higher than 50 per year , and their co payment on each prescription will be as little as 1 . Seniors in the greatest need will have the greatest help under the modernized Medicare system . I visited with seniors around the country and heard many of their stories . I am proud that this legislation will give them practical and much needed help . Mary Jane Jones from Midlothian , Virginia , has a modest income . Her drug bills total nearly 500 a month . Things got so tight for a while she had to use needles twice or three times for her insulin shots . With this law , Mary Jane will not have to go to such extremes . In exchange for a monthly premium of about 35 , Mary Jane Jones would save nearly 2 , 700 in annual prescription drug spending . Hugh Iverson from West Des Moines , Iowa , just got his Medicare membership . And that is a good thing , because he has not had health insurance for more than three years . His drug bills total at least 400 a month . Within two years , with the 35 a month coverage , he will be able to cut those bills nearly in half , saving him about 2 , 400 a year . Neil LeGrow from Culpepper , Virginia , takes 15 medications , costing him at least 700 a month . To afford all those medications , Neil has to stay working . And thanks to this law , once he is enrolled in the drug benefit , he will be able to cut back his work hours and enjoy his retirement more because he will have coverage that saves him about 4 , 700 a year . I promised these seniors when I met with them that we would work hard to give them the help they need . They are all here today . So I am happy to report to them in person Mary Jane , Hugh , and Neil , we are keeping our promise . In addition to providing coverage for prescription drugs , this legislation achieves a second great goal . We are giving our seniors more health care choices so they can get the coverage and care that meets their needs . Every senior needs to know if you do not want to change your current coverage , you do not have to change . You are the one in charge . If you want to keep your Medicare the way it is , along with the new prescription benefit , that is your right . If you want to improve benefits maybe dental coverage , or eyeglass coverage , or managed care plans that reduce out of pocket costs you will be free to make those choices , as well . And when seniors have the ability to make choices , health care plans within Medicare will have to compete for their business by offering higher quality service . For the seniors of America , more choices and more control will mean better health care . These are the kinds of health care options we give to the members of Congress and federal employees . They have the ability to pick plans to that are right for their own needs . What is good for members of Congress is also good for seniors . Our seniors are fully capable of making health care choices , and this bill allows them to do just that . A third purpose achieved by this legislation is smarter medicine within the Medicare system . For years , our seniors have been denied Medicare coverage have been denied Medicare coverage for a basic physical exam . Beginning in 2005 , all newly enrolled Medicare beneficiaries will be covered for a complete physical . The Medicare system will now help seniors and their doctors diagnose health problems early , so they can treat them early and our seniors can have a better quality life . For example , starting next year , all people on Medicare will be covered for blood tests that can diagnose heart diseases . Those at high risk for diabetes will be covered for blood sugar screening tests . Modern health care is not complete without prevention so we are expanding preventive services under Medicare . Fourth , the new law will help all Americans pay for out of pocket health costs . This legislation will create health savings accounts , effective January 1 , 2004 , so Americans can set aside up to 4 , 500 every year , tax free , to save for medical expenses . Depending on your tax bracket , that means you will save between 10 to 35 percent on any costs covered by money in your account . Our laws encourage people to plan for retirement and to save for education . Now the law will make it easier for Americans to save for their future health care , as well . A health savings account is a good deal , and all Americans should consider it . Every year , the money not spent would stay in the account and gain interest tax free , just like an IRAnd people will have an incentive to live more healthy lifestyles because they want to see their health savings account grow . These accounts will be good for small business owners , and employees . More businesses can focus on covering workers for major medical problems , such as hospitalization for an injury or illness . And at the same time , employees and their families will use these accounts to cover doctors visits or lab tests or other smaller costs . Some employers will contribute to employee health accounts . This will help more American families get the health care they need at the price they can afford . The legislation I am about to sign will set in motion a series of improvements in the care available to all America s senior citizens . And as we begin , it is important for seniors and those approaching retirement to understand their new benefits . This coming spring , seniors will receive a letter to explain the drug discount card . In June , these cards , including the 600 annual drug credit for low income seniors , will be activated . This drug card can be used until the end of 2005 . In the fall of that year , seniors will receive an information booklet giving simple guidance on changes in the program and the new choices they will have . Then in January of 2006 , seniors will have their new coverage , including permanent coverage for prescription drugs . These reforms are the act of a vibrant and compassionate government . We show are concern for the dignity of our seniors by giving them quality health care . We show our respect for seniors by giving them more choices and more control over their decision making . We are putting individuals in charge of their health care decisions . And as we move to modernize and reform other programs of this government , we will always trust individuals and their decisions , and put personal choice at the heart of our efforts . The challenges facing seniors on Medicare were apparent for many years . And those years passed with much debate and a lot of politics , and little reform to show for it . And that changed with the 108th Congress . This year we met our challenge with focus and perseverance . We confronted problems , instead of passing them along to future administrations and future Congresses . We overcame old partisan differences . We kept our promise , and found a way to get the job done . This legislation is the achievement of members in both political parties . And this legislation is a victory for all of America s seniors . Now I am honored and pleased to sign this historic piece of legislation the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 .<speech_sep>