My Fellow Citizens The four years which have elapsed since last I stood in this place have been crowded with counsel and action of the most vital interest and consequence . Perhaps no equal period in our history has been so fruitful of important reforms in our economic and industrial life or so full of significant changes in the spirit and purpose of our political action . We have sought very thoughtfully to set our house in order , correct the grosser errors and abuses of our industrial life , liberate and quicken the processes of our national genius and energy , and lift our politics to a broader view of the people s essential interests . It is a record of singular variety and singular distinction . But I shall not attempt to review it . It speaks for itself and will be of increasing influence as the years go by . This is not the time for retrospect . It is time rather to speak our thoughts and purposes concerning the present and the immediate future . Although we have centered counsel and action with such unusual concentration and success upon the great problems of domestic legislation to which we addressed ourselves four years ago , other matters have more and more forced themselves upon our attention matters lying outside our own life as a nation and over which we had no control , but which , despite our wish to keep free of them , have drawn us more and more irresistibly into their own current and influence . It has been impossible to avoid them . They have affected the life of the whole world . They have shaken men everywhere with a passion and an apprehension they never knew before . It has been hard to preserve calm counsel while the thought of our own people swayed this way and that under their influence . We are a composite and cosmopolitan people . We are of the blood of all the nations that are at war . The currents of our thoughts as well as the currents of our trade run quick at all seasons back and forth between us and them . The war inevitably set its mark from the first alike upon our minds , our industries , our commerce , our politics and our social action . To be indifferent to it , or independent of it , was out of the question . And yet all the while we have been conscious that we were not part of it . In that consciousness , despite many divisions , we have drawn closer together . We have been deeply wronged upon the seas , but we have not wished to wrong or injure in return have retained throughout the consciousness of standing in some sort apart , intent upon an interest that transcended the immediate issues of the war itself . As some of the injuries done us have become intolerable we have still been clear that we wished nothing for ourselves that we were not ready to demand for all mankind fair dealing , justice , the freedom to live and to be at ease against organized wrong . It is in this spirit and with this thought that we have grown more and more aware , more and more certain that the part we wished to play was the part of those who mean to vindicate and fortify peace . We have been obliged to arm ourselves to make good our claim to a certain minimum of right and of freedom of action . We stand firm in armed neutrality since it seems that in no other way we can demonstrate what it is we insist upon and cannot forget . We may even be drawn on , by circumstances , not by our own purpose or desire , to a more active assertion of our rights as we see them and a more immediate association with the great struggle itself . But nothing will alter our thought or our purpose . They are too clear to be obscured . They are too deeply rooted in the principles of our national life to be altered . We desire neither conquest nor advantage . We wish nothing that can be had only at the cost of another people . We always professed unselfish purpose and we covet the opportunity to prove our professions are sincere . There are many things still to be done at home , to clarify our own politics and add new vitality to the industrial processes of our own life , and we shall do them as time and opportunity serve , but we realize that the greatest things that remain to be done must be done with the whole world for stage and in cooperation with the wide and universal forces of mankind , and we are making our spirits ready for those things . We are provincials no longer . The tragic events of the thirty months of vital turmoil through which we have just passed have made us citizens of the world . There can be no turning back . Our own fortunes as a nation are involved whether we would have it so or not . And yet we are not the less Americans on that account . We shall be the more American if we but remain true to the principles in which we have been bred . They are not the principles of a province or of a single continent . We have known and boasted all along that they were the principles of a liberated mankind . These , therefore , are the things we shall stand for , whether in war or in peace That all nations are equally interested in the peace of the world and in the political stability of free peoples , and equally responsible for their maintenance that the essential principle of peace is the actual equality of nations in all matters of right or privilege that peace cannot securely or justly rest upon an armed balance of power that governments derive all their just powers from the consent of the governed and that no other powers should be supported by the common thought , purpose or power of the family of nations that the seas should be equally free and safe for the use of all peoples , under rules set up by common agreement and consent , and that , so far as practicable , they should be accessible to all upon equal terms that national armaments shall be limited to the necessities of national order and domestic safety that the community of interest and of power upon which peace must henceforth depend imposes upon each nation the duty of seeing to it that all influences proceeding from its own citizens meant to encourage or assist revolution in other states should be sternly and effectually suppressed and prevented . I need not argue these principles to you , my fellow countrymen they are your own part and parcel of your own thinking and your own motives in affairs . They spring up native amongst us . Upon this as a platform of purpose and of action we can stand together . And it is imperative that we should stand together . We are being forged into a new unity amidst the fires that now blaze throughout the world . In their ardent heat we shall , in God s Providence , let us hope , be purged of faction and division , purified of the errant humors of party and of private interest , and shall stand forth in the days to come with a new dignity of national pride and spirit . Let each man see to it that the dedication is in his own heart , the high purpose of the nation in his own mind , ruler of his own will and desire . I stand here and have taken the high and solemn oath to which you have been audience because the people of the United States have chosen me for this august delegation of power and have by their gracious judgment named me their leader in affairs . I know now what the task means . I realize to the full the responsibility which it involves . I pray God I may be given the wisdom and the prudence to do my duty in the true spirit of this great people . I am their servant and can succeed only as they sustain and guide me by their confidence and their counsel . The thing I shall count upon , the thing without which neither counsel nor action will avail , is the unity of America an America united in feeling , in purpose and in its vision of duty , of opportunity and of service . We are to beware of all men who would turn the tasks and the necessities of the nation to their own private profit or use them for the building up of private power . United alike in the conception of our duty and in the high resolve to perform it in the face of all men , let us dedicate ourselves to the great task to which we must now set our hand . For myself I beg your tolerance , your countenance and your united aid . The shadows that now lie dark upon our path will soon be dispelled , and we shall walk with the light all about us if we be but true to ourselves to ourselves as we have wished to be known in the counsels of the world and in the thought of all those who love liberty and justice and the right exalted .<speech_sep>GENTLEMEN OF THE CONGRES Since I last had the privilege of addressing you on the state of the Union the war of nations on the other side of the sea , which had then only begun to disclose its portentous proportions , has extended its threatening and sinister scope until it has swept within its flame some portion of every quarter of the globe , not excepting our own hemisphere , has altered the whole face of international affairs , and now presents a prospect of reorganization and reconstruction such as statesmen and peoples have never been called upon to attempt before . We have stood apart , studiously neutral . It was our manifest duty to do so . Not only did we have no part or interest in the policies which seem to have brought the conflict on it was necessary , if a universal catastrophe was to be avoided , that a limit should be set to the sweep of destructive war and that some part of the great family of nations should keep the processes of peace alive , if only to prevent collective economic ruin and the breakdown throughout the world of the industries by which its populations are fed and sustained . It was manifestly the duty of the self governed nations of this hemisphere to redress , if possible , the balance of economic loss and confusion in the other , if they could do nothing more . In the day of readjustment and recuperation we earnestly hope and believe that they can be of infinite service . In this neutrality , to which they were bidden not only by their separate life and their habitual detachment from the politics of Europe but also by a clear perception of international duty , the states of America have become conscious of a new and more vital community of interest and moral partnership in affairs , more clearly conscious of the many common sympathies and interests and duties which bid them stand together . There was a time in the early days of our own great nation and of the republics fighting their way to independence in Central and South America when the government of the United States looked upon itself as in some sort the guardian of the republics to the South of her as against any encroachments or efforts at political control from the other side of the water felt it its duty to play the part even without invitation from them and I think that we can claim that the task was undertaken with a true and disinterested enthusiasm for the freedom of the Americas and the unmolested Self government of her independent peoples . But it was always difficult to maintain such a role without offense to the pride of the peoples whose freedom of action we sought to protect , and without provoking serious misconceptions of our motives , and every thoughtful man of affairs must welcome the altered circumstances of the new day in whose light we now stand , when there is no claim of guardianship or thought of wards but , instead , a full and honorable association as of partners between ourselves and our neighbors , in the interest of all America , north and south . Our concern for the independence and prosperity of the states of Central and South America is not altered . We retain unabated the spirit that has inspired us throughout the whole life of our government and which was so frankly put into words by President Monroe . We still mean always to make a common cause of national independence and of political liberty in America . But that purpose is now better understood so far as it concerns ourselves . It is known not to be a selfish purpose . It is known to have in it no thought of taking advantage of any government in this hemisphere or playing its political fortunes for our own benefit . All the governments of America stand , so far as we are concerned , upon a footing of genuine equality and unquestioned independence . We have been put to the test in the case of Mexico , and we have stood the test . Whether we have benefited Mexico by the course we have pursued remains to be seen . Her fortunes are in her own hands . But we have at least proved that we will not take advantage of her in her distress and undertake to impose upon her an order and government of our own choosing . Liberty is often a fierce and intractable thing , to which no bounds can be set , and to which no bounds of a few men s choosing ought ever to be set . Every American who has drunk at the true fountains of principle and tradition must subscribe without reservation to the high doctrine of the Virginia Bill of Rights , which in the great days in which our government was set up was everywhere amongst us accepted as the creed of free men . That doctrine is , That government is , or ought to be , instituted for the common benefit , protection , and security of the people , nation , or community that of all the various modes and forms of government , that is the best which is capable of producing the greatest degree of happiness and safety , and is most effectually secured against the danger of maladministration and that , when any government shall be found inadequate or contrary to these purposes , a majority of the community hath an indubitable , inalienable , and indefeasible right to reform , alter , or abolish it , in such manner as shall be judged most conducive to the public weal . We have unhesitatingly applied that heroic principle to the case of Mexico , and now hopefully await the rebirth of the troubled Republic , which had so much of which to purge itself and so little sympathy from any outside quarter in the radical but necessary process . We will aid and befriend Mexico , but we will not coerce her and our course with regard to her ought to be sufficient proof to all America that we seek no political suzerainty or selfish control . The moral is , that the states of America are not hostile rivals but cooperating friends , and that their growing sense of community or interest , alike in matters political and in matters economic , is likely to give them a new significance as factors in international affairs and in the political history of the world . It presents them as in a very deep and true sense a unit in world affairs , spiritual partners , standing together because thinking together , quick with common sympathies and common ideals . Separated they are subject to all the cross currents of the confused politics of a world of hostile rivalries united in spirit and purpose they cannot be disappointed of their peaceful destiny . This is Pan Americanism . It has none of the spirit of empire in it . It is the embodiment , the effectual embodiment , of the spirit of law and independence and liberty and mutual service . A very notable body of men recently met in the City of Washington , at the invitation and as the guests of this Government , whose deliberations are likely to be looked back to as marking a memorable turning point in the history of America . They were representative spokesmen of the several independent states of this hemisphere and were assembled to discuss the financial and commercial relations of the republics of the two continents which nature and political fortune have so intimately linked together . I earnestly recommend to your perusal the reports of their proceedings and of the actions of their committees . You will get from them , I think , a fresh conception of the ease and intelligence and advantage with which Americans of both continents may draw together in practical cooperation and of what the material foundations of this hopeful partnership of interest must consist , of how we should build them and of how necessary it is that we should hasten their building . There is , I venture to point out , an especial significance just now attaching to this whole matter of drawing the Americans together in bonds of honorable partnership and mutual advantage because of the economic readjustments which the world must inevitably witness within the next generation , when peace shall have at last resumed its healthful tasks . In the performance of these tasks I believe the Americas to be destined to play their parts together . I am interested to fix your attention on this prospect now because unless you take it within your view and permit the full significance of it to command your thought I cannot find the right light in which to set forth the particular matter that lies at the very font of my whole thought as I address you to day . I mean national defense . No one who really comprehends the spirit of the great people for whom we are appointed to speak can fail to perceive that their passion is for peace , their genius best displayed in the practice of the arts of peace . Great democracies are not belligerent . They do not seek or desire war . Their thought is of individual liberty and of the free labor that supports life and the uncensored thought that quickens it . Conquest and dominion are not in our reckoning , or agreeable to our principles . But just because we demand unmolested development and the undisturbed government of our own lives upon our own principles of right and liberty , we resent , from whatever quarter it may come , the aggression we ourselves will not practice . We insist upon security in prosecuting our self chosen lines of national development . We do more than that . We demand it also for others . We do not confine our enthusiasm for individual liberty and free national development to the incidents and movements of affairs which affect only ourselves . We feel it wherever there is a people that tries to walk in these difficult paths of independence and right . From the first we have made common cause with all partisans of liberty on this side the sea , and have deemed it as important that our neighbors should be free from all outside domination as that we ourselves should be . have set America aside as a whole for the uses of independent nations and political freemen . Out of such thoughts grow all our policies . We regard war merely as a means of asserting the rights of a people against aggression . And we are as fiercely jealous of coercive or dictatorial power within our own nation as of aggression from without . We will not maintain a standing army except for uses which are as necessary in times of peace as in times of war and we shall always see to it that our military peace establishment is no larger than is actually and continuously needed for the uses of days in which no enemies move against us . But we do believe in a body of free citizens ready and sufficient to take care of themselves and of the governments which they have set up to serve them . In our constitutions themselves we have commanded that the right of the people to keep and bear arms shall not be infringed , and our confidence has been that our safety in times of danger would lie in the rising of the nation to take care of itself , as the farmers rose at Lexington . But war has never been a mere matter of men and guns . It is a thing of disciplined might . If our citizens are ever to fight effectively upon a sudden summons , they must know how modern fighting is done , and what to do when the summons comes to render themselves immediately available and immediately effective . And the government must be their servant in this matter , must supply them with the training they need to take care of themselves and of it . The military arm of their government , which they will not allow to direct them , they may properly use to serve them and make their independence secure , and not their own independence merely but the rights also of those with whom they have made common cause , should they also be put in jeopardy . They must be fitted to play the great role in the world , and particularly in this hemisphere , for which they are qualified by principle and by chastened ambition to play . It is with these ideals in mind that the plans of the Department of War for more adequate national defense were conceived which will be laid before you , and which I urge you to sanction and put into effect as soon as they can be properly scrutinized and discussed . They seem to me the essential first steps , and they seem to me for the present sufficient . They contemplate an increase of the standing force of the regular army from its present strength of five thousand and twenty three officers and one hundred and two thousand nine hundred and eightyfive enlisted men of all services to a strength of seven thousand one hundred and thirty six officers and one hundred and thirty four thousand seven hundred and seven enlisted men , or 141 , 843 , all told , all services , rank and file , by the addition of fifty two companies of coast artillery , fifteen companies of engineers , ten regiments of infantry , four regiments of field artillery , and four aero squadrons , besides seven hundred and fifty officers required for a great variety of extra service , especially the all important duty of training the citizen force of which I shall presently speak , seven hundred and ninety two noncommissioned officers for service in drill , recruiting and the like , and the necessary quota of enlisted men for the Quartermaster Corps , the Hospital Corps , the Ordnance Department , and other similar auxiliary services . These are the additions necessary to render the army adequate for its present duties , duties which it has to perform not only upon our own continental coasts and borders and at our interior army posts , but also in the Philippines , in the Hawaiian Islands , at the Isthmus , and in Porto Rico . By way of making the country ready to assert some part of its real power promptly and upon a larger scale , should occasion arise , the plan also contemplates supplementing the army by a force of four hundred thousand disciplined citizens , raised in increments of one hundred and thirty three thousand a year throughout a period of three years . This it is proposed to do by a process of enlistment under which the serviceable men of the country would be asked to bind themselves to serve with the colors for purposes of training for short periods throughout three years , and to come to the colors at call at any time throughout an additional furlough period of three years . This force of four hundred thousand men would be provided with personal accoutrements as fast as enlisted and their equipment for the field made ready to be supplied at any time . They would be assembled for training at stated intervals at convenient places in association with suitable units of the regular army . Their period of annual training would not necessarily exceed two months in the year . It would depend upon the patriotic feeling of the younger men of the country whether they responded to such a call to service or not . It would depend upon the patriotic spirit of the employers of the country whether they made it possible for the younger men in their employ to respond under favorable conditions or not . for one , do not doubt the patriotic devotion either of our young men or of those who give them employment , those for whose benefit and protection they would in fact enlist . I would look forward to the success of such an experiment with entire confidence . At least so much by way of preparation for defense seems to me to be absolutely imperative now . We cannot do less . The programme which will be laid before you by the Secretary of the Navy is similarly conceived . It involves only a shortening of the time within which plans long matured shall be carried out but it does make definite and explicit a programme which has heretofore been only implicit , held in the minds of the Committees on Naval Affairs and disclosed in the debates of the two Houses but nowhere formulated or formally adopted . It seems to me very clear that it will be to the advantage of the country for the Congress to adopt a comprehensive plan for putting the navy upon a final footing of strength and efficiency and to press that plan to completion within the next five years . We have always looked to the navy of the country as our first and chief line of defense we have always seen it to be our manifest course of prudence to be strong on the seas . Year by year we have been creating a navy which now ranks very high indeed among the navies of the maritime nations . We should now definitely determine how we shall complete what we have begun , and how soon . The programme to be laid before you contemplates the construction within five years of ten battleships , six battle cruisers , ten scout cruisers , fifty destroyers , fifteen fleet submarines , eighty five coast submarines , four gunboats , one hospital ship , two ammunition ships , two fuel oil ships , and one repair ship . It is proposed that of this number we shall the first year provide for the construction of two battleships , two battle cruisers , three scout cruisers , fifteen destroyers , five fleet submarines , twenty five coast submarines , two gunboats , and one hospital ship the second year , two battleships , one scout cruiser , ten destroyers , four fleet submarines , fifteen coast submarines , one gunboat , and one fuel oil ship the third year , two battleships , one battle cruiser , two scout cruisers , five destroyers , two fleet sub marines , and fifteen coast submarines the fourth year , two battleships , two battle cruisers , two scout cruisers , ten destroyers , two fleet submarines , fifteen coast submarines , one ammunition ship , and one fuel oil ship and the fifth year , two battleships , one battle cruiser , two scout cruisers , ten destroyers , two fleet submarines , fifteen coast submarines , one gunboat , one ammunition ship , and one repair ship . The Secretary of the Navy is asking also for the immediate addition to the personnel of the navy of seven thousand five hundred sailors , twenty five hundred apprentice seamen , and fifteen hundred marines . This increase would be sufficient to care for the ships which are to be completed within the fiscal year 1917 and also for the number of men which must be put in training to man the ships which will be completed early in 1918 . It is also necessary that the number of midshipmen at the Naval academy at Annapolis should be increased by at least three hundred in order that the force of officers should be more rapidly added to and authority is asked to appoint , for engineering duties only , approved graduates of engineering colleges , and for service in the aviation corps a certain number of men taken from civil life . If this full programme should be carried out we should have built or building in 1921 , according to the estimates of survival and standards of classification followed by the General Board of the Department , an effective navy consisting of twenty seven battleships of the first line , six battle cruisers , twenty five battleships of the second line , ten armored cruisers , thirteen scout cruisers , five first class cruisers , three second class cruisers , ten third class cruisers , one hundred and eight destroyers , eighteen fleet submarines , one hundred and fifty seven coast submarines , six monitors , twenty gunboats , four supply ships , fifteen fuel ships , four transports , three tenders to torpedo vessels , eight vessels of special types , and two ammunition ships . This would be a navy fitted to our needs and worthy of our traditions . But armies and instruments of war are only part of what has to be considered if we are to provide for the supreme matter of national self sufficiency and security in all its aspects . There are other great matters which will be thrust upon our attention whether we will or not . There is , for example , a very pressing question of trade and shipping involved in this great problem of national adequacy . It is necessary for many weighty reasons of national efficiency and development that we should have a great merchant marine . The great merchant fleet we once used to make us rich , that great body of sturdy sailors who used to carry our flag into every sea , and who were the pride and often the bulwark of the nation , we have almost driven out of existence by inexcusable neglect and indifference and by a hope lessly blind and provincial policy of so called economic protection . It is high time we repaired our mistake and resumed our commercial independence on the seas . For it is a question of independence . If other nations go to war or seek to hamper each other s commerce , our merchants , it seems , are at their mercy , to do with as they please . We must use their ships , and use them as they determine . We have not ships enough of our own . We cannot handle our own commerce on the seas . Our independence is provincial , and is only on land and within our own borders . We are not likely to be permitted to use even the ships of other nations in rivalry of their own trade , and are without means to extend our commerce even where the doors are wide open and our goods desired . Such a situation is not to be endured . It is of capital importance not only that the United States should be its own carrier on the seas and enjoy the economic independence which only an adequate merchant marine would give it , but also that the American hemisphere as a whole should enjoy a like independence and self sufficiency , if it is not to be drawn into the tangle of European affairs . Without such independence the whole question of our political unity and self determination is very seriously clouded and complicated indeed . Moreover , we can develop no true or effective American policy without ships of our own , not ships of war , but ships of peace , carrying goods and carrying much more creating friendships and rendering indispensable services to all interests on this side the water . They must move constantly back and forth between the Americas . They are the only shuttles that can weave the delicate fabric of sympathy , comprehension , confidence , and mutual dependence in which we wish to clothe our policy of America for Americans . The task of building up an adequate merchant marine for America private capital must ultimately undertake and achieve , as it has undertaken and achieved every other like task amongst us in the past , with admirable enterprise , intelligence , and vigor and it seems to me a manifest dictate of wisdom that we should promptly remove every legal obstacle that may stand in the way of this much to be desired revival of our old independence and should facilitate in every possible way the building , purchase , and American registration of ships . But capital cannot accomplish this great task of a sudden . It must embark upon it by degrees , as the opportunities of trade develop . Something must be done at once done to open routes and develop opportunities where they are as yet undeveloped done to open the arteries of trade where the currents have not yet learned to run , especially between the two American continents , where they are , singularly enough , yet to be created and quickened and it is evident that only the government can undertake such beginnings and assume the initial financial risks . When the risk has passed and private capital begins to find its way in sufficient abundance into these new channels , the government may withdraw . But it cannot omit to begin . It should take the first steps , and should take them at once . Our goods must not lie piled up at our ports and stored upon side tracks in freight cars which are daily needed on the roads must not be left without means of transport to any foreign quarter . We must not await the permission of foreign ship owners and foreign governments to send them where we will . With a view to meeting these pressing necessities of our commerce and availing ourselves at the earliest possible moment of the present unparalleled opportunity of linking the two Americas together in bonds of mutual interest and service , an opportunity which may never return again if we miss it now , proposals will be made to the present Congress for the purchase or construction of ships to be owned and directed by the government similar to those made to the last Congress , but modified in some essential particulars . I recommend these proposals to you for your prompt acceptance with the more confidence because every month that has elapsed since the former proposals were made has made the necessity for such action more and more manifestly imperative . That need was then foreseen it is now acutely felt and everywhere realized by those for whom trade is waiting but who can find no conveyance for their goods . I am not so much interested in the particulars of the programme as I am in taking immediate advantage of the great opportunity which awaits us if we will but act in this emergency . In this matter , as in all others , a spirit of common counsel should prevail , and out of it should come an early solution of this pressing problem . There is another matter which seems to me to be very intimately associated with the question of national safety and preparation for defense . That is our policy towards the Philippines and the people of Porto Rico . Our treatment of them and their attitude towards us are manifestly of the first consequence in the development of our duties in the world and in getting a free hand to perform those duties . We must be free from every unnecessary burden or embarrassment and there is no better way to be clear of embarrassment than to fulfil our promises and promote the interests of those dependent on us to the utmost . Bills for the alteration and reform of the government of the Philippines and for rendering fuller political justice to the people of Porto Rico were submitted to the sixty third Congress . They will be submitted also to you . I need not particularize their details . You are most of you already familiar with them . But I do recommend them to your early adoption with the sincere conviction that there are few measures you could adopt which would more serviceably clear the way for the great policies by which we wish to make good , now and always , our right to lead in enterpriscs of peace and good will and economic and political freedom . The plans for the armed forces of the nation which I have outlined , and for the general policy of adequate preparation for mobilization and defense , involve of course very large additional expenditures of money , expenditures which will considerably exceed the estimated revenues of the government . It is made my duty by law , whenever the estimates of expenditure exceed the estimates of revenue , to call the attention of the Congress to the fact and suggest any means of meeting the deficiency that it may be wise or possible for me to suggest . I am ready to believe that it would be my duty to do so in any case and I feel particularly bound to speak of the matter when it appears that the deficiency will arise directly out of the adoption by the Congress of measures which I myself urge it to adopt . Allow me , therefore , to speak briefly of the present state of the Treasury and of the fiscal problems which the next year will probably disclose . On the thirtieth of June last there was an available balance in the general fund of the Treasury Of 104 , 170 , 105 . 78 . The total estimated receipts for the year 1916 , on the assumption that the emergency revenue measure passed by the last Congress will not be extended beyond its present limit , the thirty first of December , 1915 , and that the present duty of one cent per pound on sugar will be discontinued after the first of May , 1916 , will be 670 , 365 , 500 . The balance of June last and these estimated revenues come , therefore , to a grand total of 774 , 535 , 605 78 . The total estimated disbursements for the present fiscal year , including twenty five millions for the Panama Canal , twelve millions for probable deficiency appropriations , and fifty thousand dollars for miscellaneous debt redemptions , will be 753 , 891 , 000 and the balance in the general fund of the Treasury will be reduced to 20 , 644 , 605 . 78 . The emergency revenue act , if continued beyond its present time limitation , would produce , during the half year then remaining , about forty one millions . The duty of one cent per pound on sugar , if continued , would produce during the two months of the fiscal year remaining after the first of May , about fifteen millions . These two sums , amounting together to fifty six millions , if added to the revenues of the second half of the fiscal year , would yield the Treasury at the end of the year an available balance Of 76 , 644 , 605 78 . The additional revenues required to carry out the programme of military and naval preparation of which I have spoken , would , as at present estimated , be for the fiscal year , 1917 , 93 , 800 , 000 . Those figures , taken with the figures for the present fiscal year which I have already given , disclose our financial problem for the year 1917 . Assuming that the taxes imposed by the emergency revenue act and the present duty on sugar are to be discontinued , and that the balance at the close of the present fiscal year will be only 20 , 644 , 605 . 78 , that the disbursements for the Panama Canal will again be about twenty five millions , and that the additional expenditures for the army and navy are authorized by the Congress , the deficit in the general fund of the Treasury on the thirtieth of June , 1917 , will be nearly two hundred and thirty five millions . To this sum at least fifty millions should be added to represent a safe working balance for the Treasury , and twelve millions to include the usual deficiency estimates in 1917 and these additions would make a total deficit of some two hundred and ninety seven millions . If the present taxes should be continued throughout this year and the next , however , there would be a balance in the Treasury of some seventy six and a half millions at the end of the present fiscal year , and a deficit at the end of the next year of only some fifty millions , or , reckoning in sixty two millions for deficiency appropriations and a safe Treasury balance at the end of the year , a total deficit of some one hundred and twelve millions . The obvious moral of the figures is that it is a plain counsel of prudence to continue all of the present taxes or their equivalents , and confine ourselves to the problem of providing one hundred and twelve millions of new revenue rather than two hundred and ninety seven millions . How shall we obtain the new revenue We are frequently reminded that there are many millions of bonds which the Treasury is authorized under existing law to sell to reimburse the sums paid out of current revenues for the construction of the Panama Canal and it is true that bonds to the amount of approximately 222 , 000 , 000 are now available for that purpose . Prior to 1913 , 134 , 631 , 980 of these bonds had actually been sold to recoup the expenditures at the Isthmus and now constitute a considerable item of the public debt . But for one , do not believe that the people of this country approve of postponing the payment of their bills . Borrowing money is short sighted finance . It can be justified only when permanent things are to be accomplished which many generations will certainly benefit by and which it seems hardly fair that a single generation should pay for . The objects we are now proposing to spend money for cannot be so classified , except in the sense that everything wisely done may be said to be done in the interest of posterity as well as in our own . It seems to me a clear dictate of prudent statesmanship and frank finance that in what we are now , I hope , about to undertake we should pay as we go . The people of the country are entitled to know just what burdens of taxation they are to carry , and to know from the outset , now . The new bills should be paid by internal taxation . To what sources , then , shall we turn This is so peculiarly a question which the gentlemen of the House of Representatives are expected under the Constitution to propose an answer to that you will hardly expect me to do more than discuss it in very general terms . We should be following an almost universal example of modern governments if we were to draw the greater part or even the whole of the revenues we need from the income taxes . By somewhat lowering the present limits of exemption and the figure at which the surtax shall begin to be imposed , and by increasing , step by step throughout the present graduation , the surtax itself , the income taxes as at present apportioned would yield sums sufficient to balance the books of the Treasury at the end of the fiscal year 1917 without anywhere making the burden unreasonably or oppressively heavy . The precise reckonings are fully and accurately set out in the report of the Secretary of the Treasury which will be immediately laid before you . And there are many additional sources of revenue which can justly be resorted to without hampering the industries of the country or putting any too great charge upon individual expenditure . A tax of one cent per gallon on gasoline and naphtha would yield , at the present estimated production , 10 , 000 , 000 a tax of fifty cents per horse power on automobiles and internal explosion engines , 15 , 000 , 000 a stamp tax on bank cheques , probably 18 , 000 , 000 a tax of twenty five cents per ton on pig iron , 10 , 000 , 000 a tax of twenty five cents per ton on fabricated iron and steel , probably 10 , 000 , 000 . In a country of great industries like this it ought to be easy to distribute the burdens of taxation without making them anywhere bear too heavily or too exclusively upon any one set of persons or undertakings . What is clear is , that the industry of this generation should pay the bills of this generation . I have spoken to you to day , Gentlemen , upon a single theme , the thorough preparation of the nation to care for its own security and to make sure of entire freedom to play the impartial role in this hemisphere and in the world which we all believe to have been providentially assigned to it . I have had in my mind no thought of any immediate or particular danger arising out of our relations with other nations . We are at peace with all the nations of the world , and there is reason to hope that no question in controversy between this and other Governments will lead to any serious breach of amicable relations , grave as some differences of attitude and policy have been land may yet turn out to be . I am sorry to say that the gravest threats against our national peace and safety have been uttered within our own borders . There are citizens of the United States , I blush to admit , born under other flags but welcomed under our generous naturalization laws to the full freedom and opportunity of America , who have poured the poison of disloyalty into the very arteries of our national life who have sought to bring the authority and good name of our Government into contempt , to destroy our industries wherever they thought it effective for their vindictive purposes to strike at them , and to debase our politics to the uses of foreign intrigue . Their number is not great as compared with the whole number of those sturdy hosts by which our nation has been enriched in recent generations out of virile foreign stock but it is great enough to have brought deep disgrace upon us and to have made it necessary that we should promptly make use of processes of law by which we may be purged of their corrupt distempers . America never witnessed anything like this before . It never dreamed it possible that men sworn into its own citizenship , men drawn out of great free stocks such as supplied some of the best and strongest elements of that little , but how heroic , nation that in a high day of old staked its very life to free itself from every entanglement that had darkened the fortunes of the older nations and set up a new standard here , that men of such origins and such free choices of allegiance would ever turn in malign reaction against the Government and people who bad welcomed and nurtured them and seek to make this proud country once more a hotbed of European passion . A little while ago such a thing would have seemed incredible . Because it was incredible we made no preparation for it . We would have been almost ashamed to prepare for it , as if we were suspicious of ourselves , our own comrades and neighbors But the ugly and incredible thing has actually come about and we are without adequate federal laws to deal with it . I urge you to enact such laws at the earliest possible moment and feel that in doing so I am urging you to do nothing less than save the honor and self respect of the nation . Such creatures of passion , disloyalty , and anarchy must be crushed out . They are not many , but they are infinitely malignant , and the hand of our power should close over them at once . They have formed plots to destroy property , they have entered into conspiracies against the neutrality of the Government , they have sought to pry into every confidential transaction of the Government in order to serve interests alien to our own . It is possible to deal with these things very effectually . I need not suggest the terms in which they may be dealt with . I wish that it could be said that only a few men , misled by mistaken sentiments of allegiance to the governments under which they were born , had been guilty of disturbing the self possession and misrepresenting the temper and principles of the country during these days of terrible war , when it would seem that every man who was truly an American would instinctively make it his duty and his pride to keep the scales of judgment even and prove himself a partisan of no nation but his own . But it cannot . There are some men among us , and many resident abroad who , though born and bred in the United States and calling themselves Americans , have so forgotten themselves and their honor as citizens as to put their passionate sympathy with one or the other side in the great European conflict above their regard for the peace and dignity of the United States . They also preach and practice disloyalty . No laws , I suppose , can reach corruptions of the mind and heart but I should not speak of others without also speaking of these and expressing the even deeper humiliation and scorn which every self possessed and thoughtfully patriotic American must feel when lie thinks of them and of the discredit they are daily bringing upon us . While we speak of the preparation of the nation to make sure of her security and her effective power we must not fall into the patent error of supposing that her real strength comes from armaments and mere safeguards of written law . It comes , of course , from her people , their energy , their success in their undertakings , their free opportunity to use the natural resources of our great home land and of the lands outside our continental borders which look to us for protection , for encouragement , and for assistance in their development from the organization and freedom and vitality of our economic life . The domestic questions which engaged the attention of the last Congress are more vital to the nation in this its time of test than at any other time . We cannot adequately make ready for any trial of our strength unless we wisely and promptly direct the force of our laws into these all important fields of domestic action . A matter which it seems to me we should have very much at heart is the creation of the right instrumentalities by which to mobilize our economic resources in any time of national necessity . I take it for granted that I do not need your authority to call into systematic consultation with the directing officers of the army and navy men of recognized leadership and ability from among our citizens who are thoroughly familiar , for example , with the transportation facilities of the country and therefore competent to advise how they may be coordinated when the need arises , those who can suggest the best way in which to bring about prompt cooperation among the manufacturers of the country , should it be necessary , and those who could assist to bring the technical skill of the country to the aid of the Government in the solution of particular problems of defense . I only hope that if I should find it feasible to constitute such an advisory body the Congress would be willing to vote the small sum of money that would be needed to defray the expenses that would probably be necessary to give it the clerical and administrative Machinery with which to do serviceable work . What is more important is , that the industries and resources of the country should be available and ready for mobilization . It is the more imperatively necessary , therefore , that we should promptly devise means for doing what we have not yet done that we should give intelligent federal aid and stimulation to industrial and vocational education , as we have long done in the large field of our agricultural industry that , at the same time that we safeguard and conserve the natural resources of the country we should put them at the disposal of those who will use them promptly and intelligently , as was sought to be done in the admirable bills submitted to the last Congress from its committees on the public lands , bills which I earnestly recommend in principle to your consideration that we should put into early operation some provision for rural credits which will add to the extensive borrowing facilities already afforded the farmer by the Reserve Bank Act , adequate instrumentalities by which long credits may be obtained on land mortgages and that we should study more carefully than they have hitherto been studied the right adaptation of our economic arrangements to changing conditions . Many conditions about which we have repeatedly legislated are being altered from decade to decade , it is evident , under our very eyes , and are likely to change even more rapidly and more radically in the days immediately ahead of us , when peace has returned to the world and the nations of Europe once more take up their tasks of commerce and industry with the energy of those who must bestir themselves to build anew . just what these changes will be no one can certainly foresee or confidently predict . There are no calculable , because no stable , elements in the problem . The most we can do is to make certain that we have the necessary instrumentalities of information constantly at our service so that we may be sure that we know exactly what we are dealing with when we come to act , if it should be necessary to act at all . We must first certainly know what it is that we are seeking to adapt ourselves to . I may ask the privilege of addressing you more at length on this important matter a little later in your session . In the meantime may I make this suggestion The transportation problem is an exceedingly serious and pressing one in this country . There has from time to time of late been reason to fear that our railroads would not much longer be able to cope with it successfully , as at present equipped and coordinated I suggest that it would be wise to provide for a commission of inquiry to ascertain by a thorough canvass of the whole question whether our laws as at present framed and administered are as serviceable as they might be in the solution of the problem . It is obviously a problem that lies at the very foundation of our efficiency as a people . Such an inquiry ought to draw out every circumstance and opinion worth considering and we need to know all sides of the matter if we mean to do anything in the field of federal legislation . No one , I am sure , would wish to take any backward step . The regulation of the railways of the country by federal commission has had admirable results and has fully justified the hopes and expectations of those by whom the policy of regulation was originally proposed . The question is not what should we undo . It is , whether there is anything else we can do that would supply us with effective means , in the very process of regulation , for bettering the conditions under which the railroads are operated and for making them more useful servants of the country as a whole . It seems to me that it might be the part of wisdom , therefore , before further legislation in this field is attempted , to look at the whole problem of coordination and efficiency in the full light of a fresh assessment of circumstance and opinion , as a guide to dealing with the several parts of it . For what we are seeking now , what in my mind is the single thought of this message , is national efficiency and security . We serve a great nation . We should serve it in the spirit of its peculiar genius . It is the genius of common men for self government , industry , justice , liberty and peace . We should see to it that it lacks no instrument , no facility or vigor of law , to make it sufficient to play its part with energy , safety , and assured success . In this we are no partisans but heralds and prophets of a new age .<speech_sep>GENTLEMEN OF THE CONGRES Eight months have elapsed since I last had the honor of addressing you . They have been months crowded with events of immense and grave significance for us . I shall not undertake to detail or even to summarize those events . The practical particulars of the part we have played in them will be laid before you in the reports of the executive departments . I shall discuss only our present outlook upon these vast affairs , our present duties , and the immediate means of accomplishing the objects we shall hold always in view . I shall not go back to debate the causes of the war . The intolerable wrongs done and planned against us by the sinister masters of Germany have long since become too grossly obvious and odious to every true American to need to be rehearsed . But I shall ask you to consider again and with a very grave scrutiny our objectives and the measures by which we mean to attain them for the purpose of discussion here in this place is action , and our action must move straight toward definite ends . Our object is , of course , to win the war and we shall not slacken or suffer ourselves to he diverted until it is won . But it is worth while asking and answering the question , When shall we consider the war won From one point of view it is not necessary to broach this fundamental matter . I do not doubt that the American people know what the war is about and what sort of an outcome they will regard as a realization of their purpose in it . As a nation we are united in spirit and intention . I pay little heed to those who tell me otherwise . I hear the voices of dissent who does not I bear the criticism and the clamor of the noisily thoughtless and troublesome . I also see men here and there fling themselves in impotent disloyalty against the calm , indomitable power of the Nation . I hear men debate peace who understand neither its nature nor the way in which we may attain it with uplifted eyes and unbroken spirits . But I know that none of these speaks for the Nation . They do not touch the heart of anything . They may safely be left to strut their uneasy hour and be forgotten . But from another point of view I believe that it is necessary to say plainly what we here at the seat of action consider the war to be for and what part we mean to play in the settlement of its searching issues . We are the spokesmen of the American people , and they have a right to know whether their purpose is ours . They desire peace by the overcoming of evil , by the defeat once for all of the sinister forces that interrupt peace and render it impossible , and they wish to know how closely our thought runs with theirs and what action we propose . They are impatient with those who desire peace by any sort of compromisedeeply and indignantly impatient but they will be equally impatient with us if we do not make it plain to them what our objectives are and what we are planning for in seeking to make conquest of peace by arms . I believe that I speak for them when I say two things First , that this intolerable thing of which the masters of Germany have shown us the ugly face , this menace of combined intrigue and force which we now see so clearly as the German power , a thing without conscience or honor of capacity for covenanted peace , must be crushed and , if it be not utterly brought to an end , at least shut out from the friendly intercourse of the nations and second , that when this thing and its power are indeed defeated and the time comes that we can discuss peace when the German people have spokesmen whose word we can believe and when those spokesmen are ready in the name of their people to accept the common judgment of the nations as to what shall henceforth be the bases of law and of covenant for the life of the world we shall be willing and glad to pay the full price for peace , and pay it ungrudgingly . We know what that price will be . It will be full , impartial justice justice done at every point and to every nation that the final settlement must affect , our enemies as well as our friends . You catch , with me , the voices of humanity that are in the air . They grow daily more audible , more articulate , more persuasive , and they come from the hearts of men everywhere . They insist that the war shall not end in vindictive action of any kind that no nation or people shall be robbed or punished because the irresponsible rulers of a single country have themselves done deep and abominable wrong . It is this thought that has been expressed in the formula , No annexations , no contributions , no punitive indemnities . Just because this crude formula . expresses the instinctive judgment as to right of plain men everywhere , it has been made diligent use of by the masters of German intrigue to lead the people of Russia astrayand the people of every other country their agents could reach in order that a premature peace might be brought about before autocracy has been taught its final and convincing lesson and the people of the world put in control of their own destinies . But the fact that a wrong use has been made of a just idea is no reason why a right use should not be made of it . It ought to be brought under the patronage of its real friends . Let it be said again that autocracy must first be shown the utter futility of its claim to power or leadership in the modern world . It is impossible to apply any standard of justice so long as such forces are unchecked and undefeated as the present masters of Germany command . Not until that has been done can right be set up as arbiter and peacemaker among the nations . But when that has been done as , God willing , it assuredly will be we shall at last be free to do an unprecedented thing , and this is the time to avow our purpose to do it . We shall be free to base peace on generosity and justice , to the exclusions of all selfish claims to advantage even on the part of the victors . Let there be no misunderstanding . Our present and immediate task is to win the war and nothing shall turn us aside from from it until it is accomplished . Every power and resource we possess , whether of men , of money , or of materials , is being devoted and will continue to be devoted to that purpose until it is achieved . Those who desire to bring peace about before that purpose is achieved I counsel to carry their advice elsewhere . We will not entertain it . We shall regard the war as won only when the German people say to us , through properly accredited representatives , that they are ready to agree to a settlement based upon justice and reparation of the wrongs their rulers have done . They have done a wrong to Belgium which must be repaired . They have established a power over other lands and peoples than their own over the great empire of Austria Hungary , over hitherto free Balkan states , over Turkey and within Asia which must be relinquished . Germany s success by skill , by industry , by knowledge , by enterprise we did not grudge or oppose , but admired , rather . She had built up for herself a real empire of trade and influence , secured by the peace of the world . We were content to abide by the rivalries of manufacture , science and commerce that were involved for us in her success , and stand or fall as we had or did not have the brains and the initiative to surpass her . But at the moment when she had conspicuously won her triumphs of peace she threw them away , to establish in their stead what the world will no longer permit to be established , military and political domination by arms , by which to oust where she could not excel the rivals she most feared and hated . The peace we make must remedy that wrong . It must deliver the once fair lands and happy peoples of Belgium and Northern France from the Prussian conquest and the Prussian menace , but it must deliver also the peoples of Austria Hungary , the peoples of the Balkans and the peoples of Turkey , alike in Europe and Asia , from the impudent and alien dominion of the Prussian military and commercial autocracy . We owe it , however , to ourselves , to say that we do not wish in any way to impair or to rearrange the AustroHungarian Empire . It is no affair of ours what they do with their own life , either industrially or politically . We do not purpose or desire to dictate to them in any way . We only desire to see that their affairs are left in their own hands , in all matters , great or small . We shall hope to secure for the peoples of the Balkan peninsula and for the people of the Turkish Empire the right and opportunity to make their own lives safe , their own fortunes secure against oppression or injustice and from the dictation of foreign courts or parties . And our attitude and purpose with regard to Germany herself are of a like kind . We intend no wrong against the German Empire , no interference with her internal affairs . We should deem either the one or the other absolutely unjustifiable , absolutely contrary to the principles we have professed to live by and to hold most sacred throughout our life as a nation . The people of Germany are being told by the men whom they now permit to deceive them and to act as their masters that they are fighting for the very life and existence of their empire , a war of desperate self defense against deliberate aggression . Nothing could be more grossly or wantonly false , and we must seek by the utmost openness and candor as to our real aims to convince them of its falseness . We are in fact fighting for their emancipation from the fear , along with our own from the fear as well as from the fact of unjust attack by neighbors or rivals or schemers after world empire . No one is threatening the existence or the independence of the peaceful enterprise of the German Empire . The worst that can happen to the detriment the German people is this , that if they should still , after the war is over , continue to be obliged to live under ambitious and intriguing masters interested to disturb the peace of the world , men or classes of men whom the other peoples of the world could not trust , it might be impossible to admit them to the partnership of nations which must henceforth guarantee the world s peace . That partnership must be a partnership of peoples , not a mere partnership of governments . It might be impossible , also , in such untoward circumstances , to admit Germany to the free economic intercourse which must inevitably spring out of the other partnerships of a real peace . But there would be no aggression in that and such a situation , inevitable , because of distrust , would in the very nature of things sooner or later cure itself , by processes which would assuredly set in . The wrongs , the very deep wrongs , committed in this war will have to be righted . That , of course . But they cannot and must not be righted by the commission of similar wrongs against Germany and her allies . The world will not permit the commission of similar wrongs as a means of reparation and settlement . Statesmen must by this time have learned that the opinion of the world is everywhere wide awake and fully comprehends the issues involved . No representative of any self governed nation will dare disregard it by attempting any such covenants of selfishness and compromise as were entered into at the Congress of Vienna . The thought of the plain people here and everywhere throughout the world , the people who enjoy no privilege and have very simple and unsophisticated standards of right and wrong , is the air all governments must henceforth breathe if they would live . It is in the full disclosing light of that thought that all policies must be received and executed in this midday hour of the world s life . Ger . man rulers have been able to upset the peace of the world only because the German people were not suffered under their tutelage to share the comradeship of the other peoples of the world either in thought or in purpose . They were allowed to have no opinion of their own which might be set up as a rule of conduct for those who exercised authority over them . But the Congress that concludes this war will feel the full strength of the tides that run now in the hearts and consciences of free men everywhere . Its conclusions will run with those tides . All those things have been true from the very beginning of this stupendous war and I cannot help thinking that if they had been made plain at the very outset the sympathy and enthusiasm of the Russian people might have been once for all enlisted on the side of the Allies , suspicion and distrust swept away , and a real and lasting union of purpose effected . Had they believed these things at the very moment of their revolution , and had they been confirmed in that belief since , the sad reverses which have recently marked the progress of their affairs towards an ordered and stable government of free men might have been avoided . The Russian people have been poisoned by the very same falsehoods that have kept the German people in the dark , and the poison has been , administered by the very same hand . The only possible antidote is the truth . It cannot be uttered too plainly or too often . From every point of view , therefore , it has seemed to be my duty to speak these declarations of purpose , to add these specific interpretations to what I took the liberty of saying to the Senate in January . Our entrance into the war has not altered out attitude towards the settlement that must come when it is over . When I said in January that the nations of the world were entitled not only to free pathways upon the sea , but also to assured and unmolested access to those pathways , I was thinking , and I am thinking now , not of the smaller and weaker nations alone which need our countenance and support , but also of the great and powerful nations and of our present enemies as well as our present associates in the war . I was thinking , and am thinking now , of Austria herself , among the rest , as well as of Serbia and of Poland . Justice and equality of rights can be had only at a great price . We are seeking permanent , not temporary , foundations for the peace of the world , and must seek them candidly and fearlessly . As always , the right will prove to be the expedient . What shall we do , then , to push this great war of freedom and justice to its righteous conclusion We must clear away with a thorough hand all impediments to success , and we must make every adjustment of law that will facilitate the full and free use of our whole capacity and force as a fighting unit . One very embarrassing obstacle that stands hi our way is that we are at war with Germany but not with her allies . therefore , very earnestly recommend that the Congress immediately declare the United States in a state of war with Austria Hungary . Does it seem strange to you that this should be the conclusion of the argument I have just addressed to you It is not . It is in fact the inevitable logic of what I have said . Austria Hungary is for the time being not her own mistress but simply the vassal of the German Government . We must face the facts as they are and act upon them without sentiment in this stern business . The Government of Austria and Hungary is not acting upon its own initiative or in response to the wishes and feelings of its own peoples , but as the instrument of another nation . We must meet its force with our own and regard the Central Powers as but one . The war can be successfully conducted in no other way . The same logic would lead also to a declaration of war against Turkey and Bulgaria . They also are the tools of Germany , but they are mere tools and do not yet stand in the direct path of our necessary action . We shall go wherever the necessities of this war carry us , but it seems to me that we should go only where immediate and practical considerations lead us , and not heed any others . The financial and military measures which must be adopted will suggest themselves as the war and its undertakings develop , but I will take the liberty of proposing to you certain other acts of legislation which seem to me to be needed for the support of the war and for the release of our whole force and energy . It will be necessary to extend in certain particulars the legislation of the last session with regard to alien enemies , and also necessary , I believe , to create a very definite and particular control over the entrance and departure of all persons into and from the United States . Legislation should be enacted defining as a criminal offense every wilful violation of the presidential proclamation relating to alien enemies promulgated under section 4067 of the revised statutes and providing appropriate punishments and women , as well as men , should be included under the terms of the acts placing restraints upon alien enemies . It is likely that as time goes on many alien enemies will be willing to be fed and housed at the expense of the Government in the detention camps , and it would be the purpose of the legislation I have suggested to confine offenders among them in the penitentiaries and other similar institutions where they could be made to work as other criminals do . Recent experience has convinced me that the Congress must go further in authorizing the Government to set limits to prices . The law of supply and demand , I am sorry to say , has been replaced by the law of unrestrained selfishness . While we have eliminated profiteering in several branches of industry , it still runs impudently rampant in others . The farmers for example , complain with a great deal of justice that , while the regulation of food prices restricts their incomes , no restraints are placed upon the prices of most of the things they must themselves purchase and similar inequities obtain on all sides . It is imperatively necessary that the consideration of the full use of the water power of the country , and also of the consideration of the systematic and yet economical development of such of the natural resources of the country as are still under the control of the Federal Government should be immediately resumed and affirmatively and con . structively dealt with at the earliest possible moment . The pressing need of such legislation is daily becoming more obvious . The legislation proposed at the last session with regard to regulated combinations among our exporters in order to provide for our foreign trade a more effective organization and method of co operation ought by all means to be completed at this session . And I beg that the members of the House of Representatives will permit me to express the opinion that it will be impossible to deal in any but a very wasteful and extravagant fashion with the enormous appropriations of the public moneys which must continue to be made if the war is to be properly sustained , unless the House will consent to return to its former practice of initiating and preparing all appropriation bills through a single committee , in order that responsibility may be centered , expenditures standardized and made uniform , and waste and duplication as much as possible avoided . Additional legislation may also become necessary before the present Congress again adjourns in order to effect the most efficient co ordination and operation of the railways and other transportation systems of the country but to that I shall , if circumstances should demand , call the attention of Congress upon another occasion . If I have overlooked anything that ought to be done for the more effective conduct of the war , your own counsels will supply the omission . What I am perfectly clear about is that in the present session of the Congress our whole attention and energy should be concentrated on the vigorous , rapid and successful prosecution of the great task of winning the war . We can do this with all the greater zeal and enthusiasm because we know that for us this is a war of high principle , debased by no selfish ambition of conquest or spoiliation because we know , and all the world knows , that we have been forced into it to save the very institutions we five under from corruption and destruction . The purpose of the Central Powers strikes straight at the very heart of everything we believe in their methods of warfare outrage every principle of humanity and of knightly honor their intrigue has corrupted the very thought and spirit of many of our people their sinister and secret diplomacy has sought to take our very territory away from us and disrupt the union of the states . Our safety would be at an end , our honor forever sullied and brought into contempt , were we to permit their triumph . They are striking at the very existence of democracy and liberty . It is because it is for us a war of high , disinterested purpose , in which all the free peoples of the world are banded together for the vindication of right , a war for the preservation of our nation , of all that it has held dear , of principle and of purpose , that we feel ourselves doubly constrained to propose for its outcome only that which is righteous and of irreproachable intention , for our foes as well as for our friends . The cause being just and holy , the settlement must be of like motive and equality . For this we can fight , but for nothing less noble or less worthy of our traditions . For this cause we entered the war and for this cause will we battle until the last gun is fired . I have spoken plainly because this seems to me the time when it is most necessary to speak plainly , in order that all the world may know that , even in the heat and ardor of the struggle and when our whole thought is of carrying the war through to its end , we have not forgotten any ideal or principle for which the name of America has been held in honor among the nations and for which it has been our glory to contend in the great generations that went before us . A supreme moment of history has come . The eyes of the people have been opened and they see . The hand of God is laid upon the nations . He will show them favor , I devoutly believe , only if they rise to the clear heights of His own justice and mercy .<speech_sep>Friends and Fellow Citizens I need not tell you what the Battle of Gettysburg meant . These gallant men in blue and gray sit all about us here . Many of them met upon this ground in grim and deadly struggle . Upon these famous fields and hillsides their comrades died about them . In their presence it were an impertinence to discourse upon how the battle went , how it ended , what it signified But fifty years have gone by since then , and I crave the privilege of speaking to you for a few minutes of what those fifty years have meant . What have they meant They have meant peace and union and vigor , and the maturity and might of a great nation . How wholesome and healing the peace has been We have found one another again as brothers and comrades in arms , enemies no longer , generous friends rather , our battles long past , the quarrel forgotten except that we shall not forget the splendid valor , the manly devotion of the men then arrayed against one another , now grasping hands and smiling into each other s eyes . How complete the union has become and how dear to all of us , how unquestioned , how benign and majestic , as State after State has been added to this our great family of free men How handsome the vigor , the maturity , the might of the great Nation we love with undivided hearts how full of large and confident promise that a life will be wrought out that will crown its strength with gracious justice and with a happy welfare that will touch all alike with deep contentment We are debtors to those fifty crowded years they have made us heirs to a mighty heritage . But do we deem the Nation complete and finished These venerable men crowding here to this famous field have set us a great example of devotion and utter sacrifice . They were willing to die that the people might live . But their task is done . Their day is turned into evening . They look to us to perfect what they established . Their work is handed on to us , to be done in another way , but not in another spirit . Our day is not over it is upon us in full tide . Have affairs paused Does the Nation stand still Is what the fifty years have wrought since those days of battle finished , rounded out , and completed Here is a great people , great with every force that has ever beaten in the lifeblood of mankind . And it is secure . There is no one within its borders , there is no power among the nations of the earth , to make it afraid . But has it yet squared itself with its own great standards set up at its birth , when it made that first noble , naive appeal to the moral judgment of mankind to take notice that a government had now at last been established which was to serve men , not masters It is secure in everything except the satisfaction that its life is right , adjusted to the uttermost to the standards of righteousness and humanity . The days of sacrifice and cleansing are not closed . We have harder things to do than were done in the heroic days of war , because harder to see clearly , requiring more vision , more calm balance of judgment , a more candid searching of the very springs of right . Look around you upon the field of Gettysburg Picture the array , the fierce heats and agony of battle , column hurled against column , battery bellowing to battery Valor Yes Greater no man shall see in war and self sacrifice , and loss to the uttermost the high recklessness of exalted devotion which does not count the cost . We are made by these tragic , epic things to know what it costs to make a nation the blood and sacrifice of multitudes of unknown men lifted to a great stature in the view of all generations by knowing no limit to their manly willingness to serve . In armies thus marshaled from the ranks of free men you will see , as it were , a nation embattled , the leaders and the led , and may know , if you will , how little except in form its action differs in days of peace from its action in days of war . May we break camp now and be at ease Are the forces that fight for the Nation dispersed , disbanded , gone to their homes forgetful of the common cause Are our forces disorganized , without constituted leaders and the might of men consciously united because we contend , not with armies , but with principalities and powers and wickedness in high places Are we content to lie still Does our union mean sympathy , our peace contentment , our vigor right action , our maturity self comprehension and a clear confidence in choosing what we shall do War fitted us for action , and action never ceases . I have been chosen the leader of the Nation . I cannot justify the choice by any qualities of my own , but so it has come about , and here I stand . Whom do I command The ghostly hosts who fought upon these battlefields long ago and are gone These gallant gentlemen stricken in years whose fighting days , are over , their glory won What are the orders for them , and who rallies them I have in my mind another host , whom these set free of civil strife in order that they might work out in days of peace and settled order the life of a great Nation . That host is the people themselves , the great and the small , without class or difference of kind or race or origin and undivided in interest , if we have but the vision to guide and direct them and order their lives aright in what we do . Our constitutions are their articles of enlistment . The orders of the day are the laws upon our statute books . What we strive for is their freedom , their right to lift themselves from day to day and behold the things they have hoped for , and so make way for still better days for those whom they love who are to come after them . The recruits are the little children crowding in . The quartermaster s stores are in the mines and forests and fields , in the shops and factories . Every day something must be done to push the campaign forward and it must be done by plan and with an eye to some great destiny . How shall we hold such thoughts in our hearts and not be moved I would not have you live even to day wholly in the past , but would wish to stand with you in the light that streams upon us now out of that great day gone by . Here is the nation God has builded by our hands . What shall we do with it Who stands ready to act again and always in the spirit of this day of reunion and hope and patriotic fervor The day of our country s life has but broadened into morning . Do not put uniforms by . Put the harness of the present on . Lift your eyes to the great tracts of life yet to be conquered in the interest of righteous peace , of that prosperity which lies in a people s hearts and outlasts all wars and errors of men . Come , let us be comrades and soldiers yet to serve our fellow men in quiet counsel , where the blare of trumpets is neither heard nor heeded and where the things are done which make blessed the nations of the world in peace and righteousness and love .<speech_sep>Your Honor , Chairman , Ladies , and Gentlemen No American could stand in this place to day and think of the circumstances which we are come together to celebrate without being most profoundly stirred . There has come over me since I sat down here a sense of deep solemnity , because it has seemed to me that I saw ghosts crowding a great assemblage of spirits , no longer visible , but whose influence we still feel as we feel the molding power of history itself . The men who sat in this hall , to whom we now look back with a touch of deep sentiment , were men of flesh and blood , face to face with extremely difficult problems . The population of the United States then was hardly three times the present population of the city of Philadelphia , and yet that was a Nation as this is a Nation , and the men who spoke for it were setting their hands to a work which was to last , not only that their people might be happy , but that an example might be lifted up for the instruction of the rest of the world . I like to read the quaint old accounts such as Day has read to us this afternoon . Strangers came then to America to see what the young people that had sprung up here were like , and they found men in counsel who knew how to construct governments . They found men deliberating here who had none of the appearance of novices , none of the hesitation of men who did not know whether the work they were doing was going to last or not men who addressed themselves to a problem of construction as familiarly as we attempt to carry out the traditions of a Government established these 137 years . I feel to day the compulsion of these men , the compulsion of examples which were set up in this place . And of what do their examples remind us They remind us not merely of public service but of public service shot through with principle and honor . They were not histrionic men . They did not say Look upon us as upon those who shall hereafter be illustrious . They said Look upon us who are doing the first free work of constitutional liberty in the world , and who must do it in soberness and truth , or it will not last . Politics , ladies and gentlemen , is made up in just about equal parts of comprehension and sympathy . No man ought to go into politics who does not comprehend the task that he is going to attack . He may comprehend it so completely that it daunts him , that he doubts whether his own spirit is stout enough and his own mind able enough to attempt its great undertakings , but unless he comprehend it he ought not to enter it . After he has comprehended it , there should come into his mind those profound impulses of sympathy which connect him with the rest of mankind , for politics is a business of interpretation , and no men are fit for it who do not see and seek more than their own advantage and interest . We have stumbled upon many unhappy circumstances in the hundred years that have gone by since the event that we are celebrating . Almost all of them have come from self centered men , men who saw in their own interest the interest of the country , and who did not have vision enough to read it in wider terms , in the universal terms of equity and justice and the rights of mankind . I hear a great many people at Fourth of July celebrations laud the Declaration of Independence who in between Julys shiver at the plain language of our bills of rights . The Declaration of Independence was , indeed , the first audible breath of liberty , but the substance of liberty is written in such documents as the declaration of rights attached , for example , to the first constitution of Virginia , which was a model for the similar documents read elsewhere into our great fundamental charters . That document speaks in very plain terms . The men of that generation did not hesitate to say that every people has a right to choose its own forms of government not once , but as often as it pleases and to accommodate those forms of government to its existing interests and circumstances . Not only to establish but to alter is the fundamental principle of self government . We are just as much under compulsion to study the particular circumstances of our own day as the gentlemen were who sat in this hall and set us precedents , not of what to do but of how to do it . Liberty inheres in the circumstances of the day . Human happiness consists in the life which human beings are leading at the time that they live . I can feed my memory as happily upon the circumstances of the revolutionary and constitutional period as you can , but I cannot feed all my purposes with them in Washington now . Every day problems arise which wear some new phase and aspect , and I must fall back , if I would serve my conscience , upon those things which are fundamental rather than upon those things which are superficial , and ask myself this question , How are you going to assist in some small part to give the American people and , by example , the peoples of the world more liberty , more happiness , more substantial prosperity and how are you going to make that prosperity a common heritage instead of a selfish possession I came here to day partly in order to feed my own spirit . I did not come in compliment . When I was asked to come I knew immediately upon the utterance of the invitation that I had to come , that to be absent would be as if I refused to drink once more at the original fountains of inspiration for our own Government . The men of the day which we now celebrate had a very great advantage over us , ladies and gentlemen , in this one particular Life was simple in America then . All men shared the same circumstances in almost equal degree . We think of Washington , for example , as an aristocrat , as a man separated by training , separated by family and neighborhood tradition , from the ordinary people of the rank and file of the country . Have you forgotten the personal history of George Washington Do you not know that he struggled as poor boys now struggle for a meager and imperfect education that he worked at his surveyor s tasks in the lonely forests that he knew all the roughness , all the hardships , all the adventure , all the variety of the common life of that day and that if he stood a little stiffly in this place , if he looked a little aloof , it was because life had dealt hardly with him All his sinews had been stiffened by the rough work of making America . He was a man of the people , whose touch had been with them since the day he saw the light first in the old Dominion of Virginia . And the men who came after him , men , some of whom had drunk deep at the sources of philosophy and of study , were , nevertheless , also men who on this side of the water knew no complicated life but the simple life of primitive neighborhoods . Our task is very much more difficult . That sympathy which alone interprets public duty is more difficult for a public man to acquire now than it was then , because we live in the midst of circumstances and conditions infinitely complex . No man can boast that he understands America . No man can boast that he has lived the life of America , as almost every man who sat in this hall in those days could boast . No man can pretend that except by common counsel he can gather into his consciousness what the varied life of this people is . The duty that we have to keep open eyes and open hearts and accessible understandings is a very much more difficult duty to perform than it was in their day . Yet how much more important that it should be performed , for fear we make infinite and irreparable blunders . The city of Washington is in some respects self contained , and it is easy there to forget what the rest of the United States is thinking about . I count it a fortunate circumstance that almost all the windows of the White House and its offices open upon unoccupied spaces that stretch to the banks of the Potomac and then out into Virginia and on to the heavens themselves , and that as I sit there I can constantly forget Washington and remember the United States . Not that I would intimate that all of the United States lies south of Washington , but there is a serious thing back of my thought . If you think too much about being reelected , it is very difficult to be worth reelecting . You are so apt to forget that the comparatively small number of persons , numerous as they seem to be when they swarm , who come to Washington to ask for things , do not constitute an important proportion of the population of the country , that it is constantly necessary to come away from Washington and renew one s contact with the people who do not swarm there , who do not ask for anything , but who do trust you without their personal counsel to do your duty . Unless a man gets these contacts he grows weaker and weaker . He needs them as Hercules needed the touch of mother earth . If you lift him up too high or he lifts himself too high , he loses the contact and therefore loses the inspiration . I love to think of those plain men , however far from plain their dress sometimes was , who assembled in this hall . One is startled to think of the variety of costume and color which would now occur if we were let loose upon the fashions of that age . Men s lack of taste is largely concealed now by the limitations of fashion . Yet these men , who sometimes dressed like the peacock , were , nevertheless , of the ordinary flight of their time . They were birds of a feather they were birds come from a very simple breeding they were much in the open heaven . They were beginning , when there was so little to distract their attention , to show that they could live upon fundamental principles of government . We talk those principles , but we have not time to absorb them . We have not time to let them into our blood , and thence have them translated into the plain mandates of action . The very smallness of this room , the very simplicity of it all , all the suggestions which come from its restoration , are reassuring things things which it becomes a man to realize . Therefore my theme here to day , my only thought , is a very simple one . Do not let us go back to the annals of those sessions of Congress to find out what to do , because we live in another age and the circumstances are absolutely different but let us be men of that kind let us feel at every turn the compulsions of principle and of honor which thy felt let us free our vision from temporary circumstances and look abroad at the horizon and take into our lungs the great air of freedom which has blown through this country and stolen across the seas and blessed people everywhere and , looking east and west and north and south , let us remind ourselves that we are the custodians , in some degree , of the principles which have made men free and governments just .<speech_sep>Gentlemen of the Congress In pursuance of my constitutional duty to give to the Congress information of the state of the Union , I take the liberty of addressing you on several matters which ought , as it seems to me , particularly to engage the attention of your honorable bodies , as of all who study the welfare and progress of the Nation . I shall ask your indulgence if I venture to depart in some degree from the usual custom of setting before you in formal review the many matters which have engaged the attention and called for the action of the several departments of the Government or which look to them for early treatment in the future , because the list is long , very long , and would suffer in the abbreviation to which I should have to subject it . I shall submit to you the reports of the heads of the several departments , in which these subjects are set forth in careful detail , and beg that they may receive the thoughtful attention of your committees and of all Members of the Congress who may have the leisure to study them . Their obvious importance , as constituting the very substance of the business of the Government , makes comment and emphasis on my part unnecessary . The country , I am thankful to say , is at peace with all the world , and many happy manifestations multiply about us of a growing cordiality and sense of community of interest among the nations , foreshadowing an age of settled peace and good will . More and more readily each decade do the nations manifest their willingness to bind themselves by solemn treaty to the processes of peace , the processes of frankness and fair concession . So far the United States has stood at the front of such negotiations . She will , I earnestly hope and confidently believe , give fresh proof of her sincere adherence to the cause of international friendship by ratifying the several treaties of arbitration awaiting renewal by the Senate . In addition to these , it has been the privilege of the Department of State to gain the assent , in principle , of no less than 31 nations , representing four fifths of the population of the world , to the negotiation of treaties by which it shall be agreed that whenever differences of interest or of policy arise which can not be resolved by the ordinary processes of diplomacy they shall be publicly analyzed , discussed , and reported upon by a tribunal chosen by the parties before either nation determines its course of action . There is only one possible standard by which to determine controversies between the United States and other nations , and that is com pounded of these two elements Our own honor and our obligations to the peace of the world . A test so compounded ought easily to be made to govern both the establishment of new treaty obligations and the interpretation of those already assumed . There is but one cloud upon our horizon . That has shown itself to the south of us , and hangs over Mexico . There can be no certain prospect of peace in America until Gen . Huerta has surrendered his usurped authority in Mexico until it is understood on all hands , indeed , that such pretended governments will not be countenanced or dealt with by the Government of the United States . We are the friends of constitutional government in America we are more than its friends , we are its champions because in no other way can our neighbors , to whom we would wish in every way to make proof of our friendship , work out their own development in peace and liberty . Mexico has no Government . The attempt to maintain one at the City of Mexico has broken down , and a mere military despotism has been set up which has hardly more than the semblance of national authority . It originated in the usurpation of Victoriano Huerta , who , after a brief attempt to play the part of constitutional President , has at last cast aside even the pretense of legal right and declared himself dictator . As a consequence , a condition of affairs now exists in Mexico which has made it doubtful whether even the most elementary and fundamental rights either of her own people or of the citizens of other countries resident within her territory can long be successfully safeguarded , and which threatens , if long continued , to imperil the interests of peace , order , and tolerable life in the lands immediately to the south of us . Even if the usurper had succeeded in his purposes , in despite of the constitution of the Republic and the rights of its people , he would have set up nothing but a precarious and hateful power , which could have lasted but a little while , and whose eventual downfall would have left the country in a more deplorable condition than ever . But he has not succeeded . He has forfeited the respect and the moral support even of those who were at one time willing to see him succeed . Little by little he has been completely isolated . By a little every day his power and prestige are crumbling and the collapse is not far away . We shall not , 1 believe , be obliged to alter our policy of watchful waiting . And then , when the end comes , we shall hope to see constitutional order restored in distressed Mexico by the concert and energy of such of her leaders as prefer the liberty of their people to their own ambitions . I turn to matters of domestic concern . You already have under consideration a bill for the reform of our system of banking and currency , for which the country waits with impatience , as for something fundamental to its whole business life and necessary to set credit free from arbitrary and artificial restraints . I need not say how earnestly I hope for its early enactment into law . I take leave to beg that the whole energy and attention of the Senate be concentrated upon it till the matter is successfully disposed of . And yet I feel that the request is not needed that the Members of that great House need no urging in this service to the country . I present to you , in addition , the urgent necessity that special provision be made also for facilitating the credits needed by the farmers of the country . The pending currency bill does the farmers a great service . It puts them upon an equal footinig with other business men and masters of enterprise , as it should and upon its passage they will find themselves quit of many of the difficulties which now hamper them in the field of credit . The farmers , of course , ask and should be given no special privilege , such as extending to them the credit of the Government itself . What they need and should obtain is legislation which will make their own abundant and substantial credit resources available as a foundation for joint , concerted local action in their own behalf in getting the capital they must use . It is to this we should now address ourselves . It has , singularly enough , come to pass that we have allowed the industry of our farms to lag behind the other activities of the country in its development . I need not stop to tell you how fundamental to the life of the Nation is the production of its food . Our thoughts may ordinarily be concentrated upon the cities and the hives of industry , upon the cries of the crowded market place and the clangor of the factory , but it is from the quiet interspaces of the open valleys and the free hillsides that we draw the sources of life and of prosperity , from the farm and the ranch , from the forest and the mine . Without these every street would be silent , every office deserted , every factory fallen into disrepair . And yet the farmer does not stand upon the same footing with the forester and the miner in the market of credit . He is the servant of the seasons . Nature determines how long he must wait for his crops , and will not be hurried in her processes . He may give his note , but the season of its maturity depends upon the season when his crop matures , lies at the gates of the market where his products are sold . And the security he gives is of a character not known in the broker s office or as familiarly as it might be on the counter of the banker . The Agricultural Department of the Government is seeking to assist as never before to make farming an efficient business , of wide co operative effort , in quick touch with the markets for foodstuffs . The farmers and the Government will henceforth work together as real partners in this field , where we now begin to see our way very clearly and where many intelligent plans are already being put into execution . The Treasury of the United States has , by a timely and well considered distribution of its deposits , facilitated the moving of the crops in the present season and prevented the scarcity of available funds too often experienced at such times . But we must not allow ourselves to depend upon extraordinary expedients . We must add the means by which the , farmer may make his credit constantly and easily available and command when he will the capital by which to support and expand his business . We lag behind many other great countries of the modern world in attempting to do this . Systems of rural credit have been studied and developed on the other side of the water while we left our farmers to shift for themselves in the ordinary money market . You have but to look about you in any rural district to see the result , the handicap and embarrassment which nave been put upon those who produce our food . Conscious of this backwardness and neglect on our part , the Congress recently authorized the creation of a special commission to study the various systems of rural credit which have been put into operation in Europe , and this commission is already prepared to report . Its report ought to make it easier for us to determine what methods will be best suited to our own farmers . I hope and believe that the committees of the Senate and House will address themselves to this matter with the most fruitful results , and I believe that the studies and recently formed plans of the Department of Agriculture may be made to serve them very greatly in their work of framing appropriate and adequate legislation . It would be indiscreet and presumptuous in anyone to dogmatize upon so great and many sided a question , but I feel confident that common counsel will produce the results we must all desire . Turn from the farm to the world of business which centers in the city and in the factory , and I think that all thoughtful observers will agree that the immediate service we owe the business communities of the country is to prevent private monopoly more effectually than it has yet been prevented . I think it will be easily agreed that we should let the Sherman anti trust law stand , unaltered , as it is , with its debatable ground about it , but that we should as much as possible reduce the area of that debatable ground by further and more explicit legislation and should also supplement that great act by legislation which will not only clarify it but also facilitate its administration and make it fairer to all concerned . No doubt we shall all wish , and the country will expect , this to be the central subject of our deliberations during the present session but it is a subject so manysided and so deserving of careful and discriminating discussion that 1 shall take the liberty of addressing you upon it in a special message at a later date than this . It is of capital importance that the business men of this country should be relieved of all uncertainties of law with regard to their enterprises and investments and a clear path indicated which they can travel without anxiety . It is as important that they should be relieved of embarrassment and set free to prosper as that private monopoly should be destroyed . The ways of action should be thrown wide open . I turn to a subject which I hope can be handled promptly and without serious controversy of any kind . I mean the method of selecting nominees for the Presidency of the United States . I feel confident that I do not misinterpret the wishes or the expectations of the country when I urge the prompt enactment of legislation which will provide for primary elections throughout the country at which the voters of the several parties may choose their nominees for the Presidency without the intervention of nominating conventions . I venture the suggestion that this legislation should provide for the retention of party conventions , but only for the purpose of declaring and accepting the verdict of the primaries and formulating the platforms of the parties and I suggest that these conventions should consist not of delegates chosen for this single purpose , but of the nominees for Congress , the nominees for vacant seats in the Senate of the United States , the Senators whose terms have not yet closed , the national committees , and the candidates for the Presidency themselves , in order that platforms may be framed by those responsible to the people for carrying them into effect . These are all matters of vital domestic concern , and besides them , outside the charmed circle of our own national life in which our affections command us , as well as our consciences , there stand out our obligations toward our territories over sea . Here we are trustees . Porto Rico , Hawaii , the Philippines , are ours , indeed , but not ours to do what we please with . Such territories , once regarded as mere possessions , are no longer to be selfishly exploited they are part of the domain of public conscience and of serviceable and enlightened statesmanship . We must administer them for the people who live in them and with the same sense of responsibility to them as toward our own people in our domestic affairs . No doubt we shall successfully enough bind Porto Rico and the Hawaiian Islands to ourselves by ties of justice and interest and affection , but the performance of our duty toward the Philippines is a more difficult and debatable matter . We can satisfy the obligations of generous justice toward the people of Porto Rico by giving them the ample and familiar rights and privileges accorded our own citizens in our own territories and our obligations toward the people of Hawaii by perfecting the provisions for self government already granted them , but in the Philippines we must go further . We must hold steadily in view their ultimate independence , and we must move toward the time of that independence as steadily as the way can be cleared and the foundations thoughtfully and permanently laid . Acting under the authority conferred upon the President by Congress , I have already accorded the people of the islands a majority in both houses of their legislative body by appointing five instead of four native citizens to the membership of the commission . I believe that in this way we shall make proof of their capacity in counsel and their sense of responsibility in the exercise of political power , and that the success of this step will be sure to clear our view for the steps which are to follow . Step by step we should extend and perfect the system of self government in the islands , making test of them and modifying them as experience discloses their successes and their failures that we should more and more put under the control of the native citizens of the archipelago the essential instruments of their life , their local instrumentalities of government , their schools , all the common interests of their communities , and so by counsel and experience set tip a government which all the world will see to be suitable to a people whose affairs are under their own control . At last , I hope and believe , we are beginning to gain the confidence of the Filipino peoples . By their counsel and experience , rather than by our own , we shall learn how best to serve them and how soon it will be possible and wise to withdraw our supervision . Let us once find the path and set out with firm and confident tread upon it and we shall not wander from it or linger upon it . A duty faces us with regard to Alaska which seems to me very pressing and very imperative perhaps I should say a double duty , for it concerns both the political and the material development of the Territory . The people of Alaska should be given the full Territorial form of government , and Alaska , as a storehouse , should be unlocked . One key to it is a system of railways . These the Government should itself build and administer , and the ports and terminals it should itself control in the interest of all who wish to use them for the service and development of the country and its people . But the construction of railways is only the first step is only thrusting in the key to the storehouse and throwing back the lock and opening the door . How the tempting resources of the country are to be exploited is another matter , to which I shall take the liberty of from time to time calling your attention , for it is a policy which must be worked out by well considered stages , not upon theory , but upon lines of practical expediency . It is part of our general problem of conservation . We have a freer hand in working out the problem in Alaska than in the States of the Union and yet the principle and object are the same , wherever we touch it . We must use the resources of the country , not lock them up . There need be no conflict or jealousy as between State and Federal authorities , for there can be no essential difference of purpose between them . The resources in question must be used , but not destroyed or wasted used , but not monopolized upon any narrow idea of individual rights as against the abiding interests of communities . That a policy can be worked out by conference and concession which will release these resources and yet not jeopard or dissipate them , I for one have no doubt and it can be done on lines of regulation which need be no less acceptable to the people and governments of the States concerned than to the people and Government of the Nation at large , whose heritage these resources are . We must bend our counsels to this end . A common purpose ought to make agreement easy . Three or four matters of special importance and significance I beg , that you will permit me to mention in closing . Our Bureau of Mines ought to be equipped and empowered to render even more effectual service than it renders now in improving the conditions of mine labor and making the mines more economically productive as well as more safe . This is an all important part of the work of conservation and the conservation of human life and energy lies even nearer to our interests than the preservation from waste of our material resources . We owe it , in mere justice to the railway employees of the country , to provide for them a fair and effective employers liability act and a law that we can stand by in this matter will be no less to the advantage of those who administer the railroads of the country than to the advantage of those whom they employ . The experience of a large number of the States abundantly proves that . We ought to devote ourselves to meeting pressing demands of plain justice like this as earnestly as to the accomplishment of political and economic reforms . Social justice comes first . Law is the machinery for its realization and is vital only as it expresses and embodies it . An international congress for the discussion of all questions that affect safety at sea is now sitting in London at the suggestion of our own Government . So soon as the conclusions of that congress can be learned and considered we ought to address ourselves , among other things , to the prompt alleviation of the very unsafe , unjust , and burdensome conditions which now surround the employment of sailors and render it extremely difficult to obtain the services of spirited and competent men such as every ship needs if it is to be safely handled and brought to port . May I not express the very real pleas are I have experienced in co operating with this Congress and sharing with it the labors of common service to which it has devoted itself so unreservedly during the past seven months of uncomplaining concentration upon the business of legislation Surely it is a proper and pertinent part of my report on the state of the Union to express my admiration for the diligence , the good temper , and the full comprehension of public duty which has already been manifested by both the Houses and I hope that it may not be deemed an impertinent intrusion of myself into the picture if I say with how much and how constant satisfaction I have availed myself of the privilege of putting my time and energy at their disposal alike in counsel and in action .<speech_sep>GENTLEMEN OF THE CONGRESS When I addressed myself to performing the duty laid upon the President by the Constitution to present to you an annual report on the state of the Union , I found my thought dominated by an immortal sentence of Abraham Lincoln s Let us have faith that right makes might , and in that faith let us dare to do our duty as we understand it a sentence immortal because it embodies in a form of utter simplicity and purity the essential faith of the nation , the faith in which it was conceived , and the faith in which it has grown to glory and power . With that faith and the birth of a nation founded upon it came the hope into the world that a new order would prevail throughout the affairs of mankind , an order in which reason and right would take precedence over covetousness and force and I believe that I express the wish and purpose of every thoughtful American when I say that this sentence marks for us in the plainest manner the part we should play alike in the arrangement of our domestic affairs and in our exercise of influence upon the affairs of the world . By this faith , and by this faith alone , can the world be lifted out of its present confusion and despair . It was this faith which prevailed over the wicked force of Germany . You will remember that the beginning of the end of the war came when the German people found themselves face to face with the conscience of the world and realized that right was everywhere arrayed against the wrong that their government was attempting to perpetrate . I think , therefore , that it is true to say that this was the faith which won the war . Certainly this is the faith with which our gallant men went into the field and out upon the seas to make sure of victory . This is the mission upon which Democracy came into the world . Democracy is an assertion of the right of the individual to live and to be treated justly as against any attempt on the part of any combination of individuals to make laws which will overburden him or which will destroy his equality among his fellows in the matter of right or privilege and I think we all realize that the day has come when Democracy is being put upon its final test . The Old World is just now suffering from a wanton rejection of the principle of democracy and a substitution of the principle of autocracy as asserted in the name , but without the authority and sanction , of the multitude . This is the time of all others when Democracy should prove its purity and its spiritual power to prevail . It is surely the manifest destiny of the United States to lead in the attempt to make this spirit prevail . There are two ways in which the United States can assist to accomplish this great object . First , by offering the example within her own borders of the will and power of Democracy to make and enforce laws which are unquestionably just and which are equal in their administration laws which secure its full right to Labor and yet at the same time safeguard the integrity of property , and particularly of that property which is devoted to the development of industry and the increase of the necessary wealth of the world . Second , by standing for right and justice as toward individual nations . The law of Democracy is for the protection of the weak , and the influence of every democracy in the world should be for the protection of the weak nation , the nation which is struggling toward its right and toward its proper recognition and privilege in the family of nations . The United States cannot refuse this role of champion without putting the stigma of rejection upon the great and devoted men who brought its government into existence and established it in the face of almost universal opposition and intrigue , even in the face of wanton force , as , for example , against the Orders in Council of Great Britain and the arbitrary Napoleonic decrees which involved us in what we know as the War of 1812 . I urge you to consider that the display of an immediate disposition on the part of the Congress to remedy any injustices or evils that may have shown themselves in our own national life will afford the most effectual offset to the forces of chaos and tyranny which are playing so disastrous a part in the fortunes of the free peoples of more than one part of the world . The United States is of necessity the sample democracy of the world , and the triumph of Democracy depends upon its success . Recovery from the disturbing and sometimes disastrous effects of the late war has been exceedingly slow on the other side of the water , and has given promise , I venture to say , of early completion only in our own fortunate country but even with us the recovery halts and is impeded at times , and there are immediately serviceable acts of legislation which it seems to me we ought to attempt , to assist that recovery and prove the indestructible recuperative force of a great government of the people . One of these is to prove that a great democracy can keep house as successfully and in as business like a fashion as any other government . It seems to me that the first step toward providing this is to supply ourselves with a systematic method of handling our estimates and expenditures and bringing them to the point where they will not be an unnecessary strain upon our income or necessitate unreasonable taxation in other words , a workable budget system . And I respectfully suggest that two elements are essential to such a system namely , not only that the proposal of appropriations should be in the hands of a single body , such as a single appropriations committee in each house of the Congress , but also that this body should be brought into such cooperation with the Departments of the Government and with the Treasury of the United States as would enable it to act upon a complete conspectus of the needs of the Government and the resources from which it must draw its income . I reluctantly vetoed the budget bill passed by the last session of the Congress because of a constitutional objection . The House of Representatives subsequently modified the bill in order to meet this objection . In the revised form , I believe that the bill , coupled with action already taken by the Congress to revise its rules and procedure , furnishes the foundation for an effective national budget system . I earnestly hope , therefore , that one of the first steps to be taken by the present session of the Congress will be to pass the budget bill . The nation s finances have shown marked improvement during the last year . The total ordinary receipts of 6 , 694 , 000 , 000 for the fiscal year 1920 exceeded those for 1919 by 1 , 542 , 000 , 000 , while the total net ordinary expenditures decreased from 18 , 514 , 000 , 000 to 6 , 403 , 000 , 000 . The gross public debt , which reached its highest point on August 31 , 1919 , when it was 26 , 596 , 000 , 000 , had dropped on November 30 , 1920 , to 24 , 175 , 000 , 000 . There has also been a marked decrease in holdings of government war securities by the banking institutions of the country , as well as in the amount of bills held by the Federal Reserve Banks secured by government war obligations . This fortunate result has relieved the banks and left them freer to finance the needs of Agriculture , Industry , and Commerce . It has been due in large part to the reduction of the public debt , especially of the floating debt , but more particularly to the improved distribution of government securities among permanent investors . The cessation of the Government s borrowings , except through short term certificates of indebtedness , has been a matter of great consequence to the people of the country at large , as well as to the holders of Liberty Bonds and Victory Notes , and has had an important bearing on the matter of effective credit control . The year has been characterized by the progressive withdrawal of the Treasury from the domestic credit market and from a position of dominant influence in that market . The future course will necessarily depend upon the extent to which economies are practiced and upon the burdens placed upon the Treasury , as well as upon industrial developments and the maintenance of tax receipts at a sufficiently high level . The fundamental fact which at present dominates the Government s financial situation is that seven and a half billions of its war indebtedness mature within the next two and a half years . Of this amount , two and a half billions are floating debt and five billions , Victory Notes and War . Savings Certificates . The fiscal program of the Government must be determined with reference to these maturities . Sound policy demands that Government expenditures be reduced to the lowest amount which will permit the various services to operate efficiently and that Government receipts from taxes and salvage be maintained sufficiently high to provide for current requirements , including interest and sinking fund charges on the public debt , and at the same time retire the floating debt and part of the Victory Loan before maturity . With rigid economy , vigorous salvage operations , and adequate revenues from taxation , a surplus of current receipts over current expenditures can be realized and should be applied to the floating debt . All branches of the Government should cooperate to see that this program is realized . I cannot overemphasize the necessity of economy in Government appropriations and expenditures and the avoidance by the Congress of practices which take money from the Treasury by indefinite or revolving fund appropriations . The estimates for the present year show that over a billion dollars of expenditures were authorized by the last Congress in addition to the amounts shown in the usual compiled statements of appropriations . This strikingly illustrates the importance of making direct and specific appropriations . The relation between the current receipts and current expenditures of the Government during the present fiscal year , as well as during the last half of the last fiscal year , has been disturbed by the extraordinary burdens thrown upon the Treasury by the Transportation Act , in connection with the return of the railroads to private control . Over 600 , 000 , 000 has already been paid to the railroads under this act 350 , 000 , 000 during the present fiscal year and it is estimated that further payments aggregating possibly 650 , 000 , 000 must still be made to the railroads during the current year . It is obvious that these large payments have already seriously limited the Government s progress in retiring the floating debt . Closely connected with this , it seems to me , is the necessity for an immediate consideration of the revision of our tax laws . Simplification of the income and profits taxes has become an immediate necessity . These taxes performed an indispensable service during the war . The need for their simplification , however , is very great , in order to save the taxpayer inconvenience and expense and in order to make his liability more certain and definite . Other and more detailed recommendations with regard to taxes will no doubt be laid before you by the Secretary of the Treasury and the Commissioner of Internal Revenue . It is my privilege to draw to the attention of Congress for very sympathetic consideration the problem of providing adequate facilities for the care and treatment of former members of the military and naval forces who are sick and disabled as the result of their participation in the war . These heroic men can never be paid in money for the service they patriotically rendered the nation . Their reward will lie rather in realization of the fact that they vindicated the rights of their country and aided in safeguarding civilization . The nation s gratitude must be effectively revealed to them by the most ample provision for their medical care and treatment as well as for their vocational training and placement . The time has come when a more complete program can be formulated and more satisfactorily administered for their treatment and training , and I earnestly urge that the Congress give the matter its early consideration . The Secretary of the Treasury and the Board for Vocational Education will outline in their annual reports proposals covering medical care and rehabilitation which I am sure will engage your earnest study and commend your most generous support . Permit me to emphasize once more the need for action upon certain matters upon which I dwelt at some length in my message to the second session of the Sixty sixth Congress . The necessity , for example , of encouraging the manufacture of dyestuffs and related chemicals the importance of doing everything possible to promote agricultural production along economic lines , to improve agricultural marketing , and to make rural life more attractive and healthful the need for a law regulating cold storage in such a way as to limit the time during which goods may be kept in storage , prescribing the method of disposing of them if kept beyond the permitted period , and requiring goods released from storage in all cases to bear the date of their receipt . It would also be most serviceable if it were provided that all goods released from cold storage for interstate shipment should have plainly marked upon each package the selling or market price at which they went into storage , in order that the purchaser might be able to learn what profits stood between him and the producer or the wholesale dealer . Indeed , It would be very serviceable to the public if all goods destined for interstate commerce were made to carry upon every packing case whose form made it possible a plain statement of the price at which they left the hands of the producer . I respectfully call your attention also to the recommendations of the message referred to with regard to a federal license for all corporations engaged in interstate commerce . In brief , the immediate legislative need of the time is the removal of all obstacles to the realization of the best ambitions of our people in their several classes of employment and the strengthening of all instrumentalities by . which difficulties are to be met and removed and justice dealt out , whether by law or by some form of mediation and conciliation . I do not feel it to be my privilege at present to , suggest the detailed and particular methods by which these objects may be attained , but I have faith that the inquiries of your several committees will discover the way and the method . In response to what I believe to be the impulse of sympathy and opinion throughout the United States , I earnestly suggest that the Congress authorize the Treasury of the United States to make to the struggling government of Armenia such a loan as was made to several of the Allied governments during the war , and I would also suggest that it would be desirable to provide in the legislation itself that the expenditure of the money thus loaned should be under the supervision of a commission , or at least a commissioner , from the United States in order that revolutionary tendencies within Armenia itself might not be afforded by the loan a further tempting opportunity . Allow me to call your attention to the fact that the people of the Philippine Islands have succeeded in maintaining a stable government since the last action of the Congress in their behalf , and have thus fulfilled the condition set by the Congress as precedent to a consideration of granting independence to the Islands . I respectfully submit that this condition precedent having been fulfilled , it is now our liberty and our duty to keep our promise to the people of those islands by granting them the independence which they so honorably covet . I have not so much laid before you a series of recommendations , gentlemen , as sought to utter a confession of faith , of the faith in which I was bred and which it is my solemn purpose to stand by until my last fighting day . I believe this to be the faith of America , the faith of the future , and of all the victories which await national action in the days to come , whether in America or elsewhere .<speech_sep>Speaker , President , Gentlemen of the Congress I am very glad indeed to have this opportunity to address the two Houses directly and to verify for myself the impression that the President of the United States is a person , not a mere department of the Government hailing Congress from some isolated island of jealous power , sending messages , not speaking naturally and with his own voice that he is a human being trying to cooperate with other human beings in a common service . After this pleasant experience I shall feel quite normal in all our dealings with one another . I have called the Congress together in extraordinary session because a duty was laid upon the party now in power at the recent elections which it ought to perform promptly , in order that the burden carried by the people under existing law may be lightened as soon as possible and in order , also , that the business interests of the country may not be kept too long in suspense as to what the fiscal changes are to be to which they will be required to adjust themselves . It is clear to the whole country that the tariff duties must be altered . They must be changed to meet the radical alteration in the conditions of our economic life which the country has witnessed within the last generation . While the whole face and method of our industrial and commercial life were being changed beyond recognition the tariff schedules have remained what they were before the change began , or have moved in the direction they were given when no large circumstance of our industrial development was what it is to day . Our task is to square them with the actual facts . The sooner that is done the sooner we shall escape from suffering from the facts and the sooner our men of business will be free to thrive by the law of nature the nature of free business instead of by the law of legislation and artificial arrangement . We have seen tariff legislation wander very far afield in our day very far indeed from the field in which our prosperity might have had a normal growth and stimulation . No one who looks the facts squarely in the face or knows anything that lies beneath the surface of action can fail to perceive the principles upon which recent tariff legislation has been based . We long ago passed beyond the modest notion of protecting the industries of the country and moved boldly forward to the idea that they were entitled to the direct patronage of the Government . For a long time a time so long that the men now active in public policy hardly remember the conditions that preceded it we have sought in our tariff schedules to give each group of manufacturers or producers what they themselves thought that they needed in order to maintain a practically exclusive market as against the rest of the world . Consciously or unconsciously , we have built up a set of privileges and exemptions from competition behind which it was easy by any , even the crudest , forms of combination to organize monopoly until at last nothing is normal , nothing is obliged to stand the tests of efficiency and economy , in our world of big business , but everything thrives by concerted arrangement . Only new principles of action will save us from a final hard crystallization of monopoly and a complete loss of the influences that quicken enterprise and keep independent energy alive . It is plain what those principles must be . We must abolish everything that bears even the semblance of privilege or of any kind of artificial advantage , and put our business men and producers under the stimulation of a constant necessity to be efficient , economical , and enterprising , masters of competitive supremacy , better workers and merchants than any in the world . Aside from the duties laid upon articles which we do not , and probably cannot , produce , therefore , and the duties laid upon luxuries and merely for the sake of the revenues they yield , the object of the tariff duties henceforth laid must be effective competition , the whetting of American wits by contest with the wits of the rest of the world . It would be unwise to move toward this end headlong , with reckless haste , or with strokes that cut at the very roots of what has grown up amongst us by long process and at our own invitation . It does not alter a thing to upset it and break it and deprive it of a chance to change . It destroys it . We must make changes in our fiscal laws , in our fiscal system , whose object is development , a more free and wholesome development , not revolution or upset or confusion . We must build up trade , especially foreign trade . We need the outlet and the enlarged field of energy more than we ever did before . We must build up industry as well , and must adopt freedom in the place of artificial stimulation only so far as it will build , not pull down . In dealing with the tariff the method by which this may be done will be a matter of judgment , exercised item by item . To some not accustomed to the excitements and responsibilities of greater freedom our methods may in some respects and at some points seem heroic , but remedies may be heroic and yet be remedies . It is our business to make sure that they are genuine remedies . Our object is clear . If our motive is above just challenge and only an occasional error of judgment is chargeable against us , we shall be fortunate . We are called upon to render the country a great service in more matters than one . Our responsibility should be met and our methods should be thorough , as thorough as moderate and well considered , based upon the facts as they are , and not worked out as if we were beginners . We are to deal with the facts of our own day , with the facts of no other , and to make laws which square with those facts . It is best , indeed it is necessary , to begin with the tariff . I will urge nothing upon you now at the opening of your session which can obscure that first object or divert our energies from that clearly defined duty . At a later time I may take the liberty of calling your attention to reforms which should press close upon the heels of the tariff changes , if not accompany them , of which the chief is the reform of our banking and currency laws but just now I refrain . For the present , I put these matters on one side and think only of this one thing of the changes in our fiscal system which may best serve to open once more the free channels of prosperity to a great people whom we would serve to the utmost and throughout both rank and file . I thank you for your courtesy .<speech_sep>I have called the Congress into extraordinary session because there are serious , very serious , choices of policy to be made , and made immediately , which it was neither right nor constitutionally permissible that I should assume the responsibility of making . On the 3rd of February last , I officially laid before you the extraordinary announcement of the Imperial German government that on and after the 1st day of February it was its purpose to put aside all restraints of law or of humanity and use its submarines to sink every vessel that sought to approach either the ports of Great Britain and Ireland or the western coasts of Europe or any of the ports controlled by the enemies of Germany within the Mediterranean . That had seemed to be the object of the German submarine warfare earlier in the war , but since April of last year the Imperial government had somewhat restrained the commanders of its undersea craft in conformity with its promise then given to us that passenger boats should not be sunk and that due warning would be given to all other vessels which its submarines might seek to destroy , when no resistance was offered or escape attempted , and care taken that their crews were given at least a fair chance to save their lives in their open boats . The precautions taken were meager and haphazard enough , as was proved in distressing instance after instance in the progress of the cruel and unmanly business , but a certain degree of restraint was observed . The new policy has swept every restriction aside . Vessels of every kind , whatever their flag , their character , their cargo , their destination , their errand , have been ruthlessly sent to the bottom without warning and without thought of help or mercy for those on board , the vessels of friendly neutrals along with those of belligerents . Even hospital ships and ships carrying relief to the sorely bereaved and stricken people of Belgium , though the latter were provided with safe conduct through the proscribed areas by the German government itself and were distinguished by unmistakable marks of identity , have been sunk with the same reckless lack of compassion or of principle . I was for a little while unable to believe that such things would in fact be done by any government that had hitherto subscribed to the humane practices of civilized nations . International law had its origin in the attempt to set up some law which would be respected and observed upon the seas , where no nation had right of dominion and where lay the free highways of the world . By painful stage after stage has that law been built up , with meager enough results , indeed , after all was accomplished that could be accomplished , but always with a clear view , at least , of what the heart and conscience of mankind demanded . This minimum of right the German government has swept aside under the plea of retaliation and necessity and because it had no weapons which it could use at sea except these which it is impossible to employ as it is employing them without throwing to the winds all scruples of humanity or of respect for the understandings that were supposed to underlie the intercourse of the world . I am not now thinking of the loss of property involved , immense and serious as that is , but only of the wanton and wholesale destruction of the lives of noncombatants , men , women , and children , engaged in pursuits which have always , even in the darkest periods of modern history , been deemed innocent and legitimate . Property can be paid for the lives of peaceful and innocent people cannot be . The present German submarine warfare against commerce is a warfare against mankind . It is a war against all nations . American ships have been sunk , American lives taken in ways which it has stirred us very deeply to learn of but the ships and people of other neutral and friendly nations have been sunk and overwhelmed in the waters in the same way . There has been no discrimination . The challenge is to all mankind . Each nation must decide for itself how it will meet it . The choice we make for ourselves must be made with a moderation of counsel and a temperateness of judgment befitting our character and our motives as a nation . We must put excited feeling away . Our motive will not be revenge or the victorious assertion of the physical might of the nation , but only the vindication of right , of human right , of which we are only a single champion . When I addressed the Congress on the 26th of February last , I thought that it would suffice to assert our neutral rights with arms , our right to use the seas against unlawful interference , our right to keep our people safe against unlawful violence . But armed neutrality , it now appears , is impracticable . Because submarines are in effect outlaws when used as the German submarines have been used against merchant shipping , it is impossible to defend ships against their attacks as the law of nations has assumed that merchantmen would defend themselves against privateers or cruisers , visible craft giving chase upon the open sea . It is common prudence in such circumstances , grim necessity indeed , to endeavor to destroy them before they have shown their own intention . They must be dealt with upon sight , if dealt with at all . The German government denies the right of neutrals to use arms at all within the areas of the sea which it has proscribed , even in the defense of rights which no modern publicist has ever before questioned their right to defend . The intimation is conveyed that the armed guards which we have placed on our merchant ships will be treated as beyond the pale of law and subject to be dealt with as pirates would be . Armed neutrality is ineffectual enough at best in such circumstances and in the face of such pretensions it is worse than ineffectual it is likely only to produce what it was meant to prevent it is practically certain to draw us into the war without either the rights or the effectiveness of belligerents . There is one choice we cannot make , we are incapable of making we will not choose the path of submission and suffer the most sacred rights of our nation and our people to be ignored or violated . The wrongs against which we now array ourselves are no common wrongs they cut to the very roots of human life . With a profound sense of the solemn and even tragical character of the step I am taking and of the grave responsibilities which it involves , but in unhesitating obedience to what I deem my constitutional duty , I advise that the Congress declare the recent course of the Imperial German government to be in fact nothing less than war against the government and people of the United States that it formally accept the status of belligerent which has thus been thrust upon it and that it take immediate steps , not only to put the country in a more thorough state of defense but also to exert all its power and employ all its resources to bring the government of the German Empire to terms and end the war . What this will involve is clear . It will involve the utmost practicable cooperation in counsel and action with the governments now at war with Germany and , as incident to that . the extension to those governments of the most liberal financial credits , in order that our resources may so far as possible be added to theirs . It will involve the organization and mobilization of all the material resources of the country to supply the materials of war and serve the incidental needs of the nation in the most abundant and yet the most economical and efficient way possible . It will involve the immediate full equipment of the Navy in all respects but particularly in supplying it with the best means of dealing with the enemy s submarines . It will involve the immediate addition to the armed forces of the United States already provided for by law in case of war at least 500 , 000 men , who should , in my opinion , be chosen upon the principle of universal liability to service , and also the authorization of subsequent additional increments of equal force so soon as they may be needed and can be handled in training . It will involve also , of course , the granting of adequate credits to the government , sustained , I hope , so far as they can equitably be sustained by the present generation , by well conceived taxation . I say sustained so far as may be equitable by taxation because it seems to me that it would be most unwise to base the credits which will now be necessary entirely on money borrowed . It is our duty , I most respectfully urge , to protect our people so far as we may against the very serious hardships and evils which would be likely to arise out of the inflation which would be produced by vast loans . In carrying out the measures by which these things are to be accomplished , we should keep constantly in mind the wisdom of interfering as little as possible in our own preparation and in the equipment of our own military forces with the duty for it will be a very practical duty of supplying the nations already at war with Germany with the materials which they can obtain only from us or by our assistance . They are in the field and we should help them in every way to be effective there . I shall take the liberty of suggesting , through the several executive departments of the government , for the consideration of your committees , measures for the accomplishment of the several objects I have mentioned . I hope that it will be your pleasure to deal with them as having been framed after very careful thought by the branch of the government upon which the responsibility of conducting the war and safeguarding the nation will most directly fall . While we do these things , these deeply momentous things , let us be very clear , and make very clear to all the world , what our motives and our objects are . My own thought has not been driven from its habitual and normal course by the unhappy events of the last two months , and I do not believe that the thought of the nation has been altered or clouded by them . I have exactly the same things in mind now that I had in mind when I addressed the Senate on the 22nd of January last the same that I had in mind when I addressed the Congress on the 3rd of February and on the 26th of February . Our object now , as then , is to vindicate the principles of peace and justice in the life of the world as against selfish and autocratic power and to set up among the really free and self governed peoples of the world such a concert of purpose and of action as will henceforth ensure the observance of those principles . Neutrality is no longer feasible or desirable where the peace of the world is involved and the freedom of its peoples , and the menace to that peace and freedom lies in the existence of autocratic governments backed by organized force which is controlled wholly by their will , not by the will of their people . We have seen the last of neutrality in such circumstances . We are at the beginning of an age in which it will be insisted that the same standards of conduct and of responsibility for wrong done shall be observed among nations and their governments that are observed among the individual citizens of civilized states . We have no quarrel with the German people . We have no feeling toward them but one of sympathy and friendship . It was not upon their impulse that their government acted in entering this war . It was not with their previous knowledge or approval . It was a war determined upon as wars used to be determined upon in the old , unhappy days when peoples were nowhere consulted by their rulers and wars were provoked and waged in the interest of dynasties or of little groups of ambitious men who were accustomed to use their fellowmen as pawns and tools . Self governed nations do not fill their neighbor states with spies or set the course of intrigue to bring about some critical posture of affairs which will give them an opportunity to strike and make conquest . Such designs can be successfully worked out only under cover and where no one has the right to ask questions . Cunningly contrived plans of deception or aggression , carried , it may be , from generation to generation , can be worked out and kept from the light only within the privacy of courts or behind the carefully guarded confidences of a narrow and privileged class . They are happily impossible where public opinion commands and insists upon full information concerning all the nation s affairs . A steadfast concert for peace can never be maintained except by a partnership of democratic nations . No autocratic government could be trusted to keep faith within it or observe its covenants . It must be a league of honor , a partnership of opinion . Intrigue would eat its vitals away the plottings of inner circles who could plan what they would and render account to no one would be a corruption seated at its very heart . Only free peoples can hold their purpose and their honor steady to a common end and prefer the interests of mankind to any narrow interest of their own . Does not every American feel that assurance has been added to our hope for the future peace of the world by the wonderful and heartening things that have been happening within the last few weeks in Russia Russia was known by those who knew it best to have been always in fact democratic at heart , in all the vital habits of her thought , in all the intimate relationships of her people that spoke their natural instinct , their habitual attitude toward life . The autocracy that crowned the summit of her political structure , long as it had stood and terrible as was the reality of its power , was not in fact Russian in origin , character , or purpose and now it has been shaken off and the great , generous Russian people have been added in all their naive majesty and might to the forces that are fighting for freedom in the world , for justice , and for peace . Here is a fit partner for a League of Honor . One of the things that has served to convince us that the Prussian autocracy was not and could never be our friend is that from the very outset of the present war it has filled our unsuspecting communities and even our offices of government with spies and set criminal intrigues everywhere afoot against our national unity of counsel , our peace within and without , our industries and our commerce . Indeed , it is now evident that its spies were here even before the war began and it is unhappily not a matter of conjecture but a fact proved in our courts of justice that the intrigues which have more than once come perilously near to disturbing the peace and dislocating the industries of the country have been carried on at the instigation , with the support , and even under the personal direction of official agents of the Imperial government accredited to the government of the United States . Even in checking these things and trying to extirpate them , we have sought to put the most generous interpretation possible upon them because we knew that their source lay , not in any hostile feeling or purpose of the German people toward us who were no doubt as ignorant of them as we ourselves were but only in the selfish designs of a government that did what it pleased and told its people nothing . But they have played their part in serving to convince us at last that that government entertains no real friendship for us and means to act against our peace and security at its convenience . That it means to stir up enemies against us at our very doors the intercepted note to the German minister at Mexico City is eloquent evidence . We are accepting this challenge of hostile purpose because we know that in such a government , following such methods , we can never have a friend and that in the presence of its organized power , always lying in wait to accomplish we know not what purpose , there can be no assured security for the democratic governments of the world . We are now about to acceptgaugeof battle with this natural foe to liberty and shall , if necessary , spend the whole force of the nation to check and nullify its pretensions and its power . We are glad , now that we see the facts with no veil of false pretense about them , to fight thus for the ultimate peace of the world and for the liberation of its peoples , the German peoples included for the rights of nations great and small and the privilege of men everywhere to choose their way of life and of obedience . The world must be made safe for democracy . Its peace must be planted upon the tested foundations of political liberty . We have no selfish ends to serve . We desire no conquest , no dominion . We seek no indemnities for ourselves , no material compensation for the sacrifices we shall freely make . We are but one of the champions of the rights of mankind . We shall be satisfied when those rights have been made as secure as the faith and the freedom of nations can make them . Just because we fight without rancor and without selfish object , seeking nothing for ourselves but what we shall wish to share with all free peoples , we shall , I feel confident , conduct our operations as belligerents without passion and ourselves observe with proud punctilio the principles of right and of fair play we profess to be fighting for . I have said nothing of the governments allied with the Imperial government of Germany because they have not made war upon us or challenged us to defend our right and our honor . The Austro Hungarian government has , indeed , avowed its unqualified endorsement and acceptance of the reckless and lawless submarine warfare adopted now without disguise by the Imperial German government , and it has therefore not been possible for this government to receive Count Tarnowski , the ambassador recently accredited to this government by the Imperial and Royal government of Austria Hungary but that government has not actually engaged in warfare against citizens of the United States on the seas , and I take the liberty , for the present at least , of postponing a discussion of our relations with the authorities at Vienna . We enter this war only where we are clearly forced into it because there are no other means of defending our rights . It will be all the easier for us to conduct ourselves as belligerents in a high spirit of right and fairness because we act without animus , not in enmity toward a people or with the desire to bring any injury or disadvantage upon them , but only in armed opposition to an irresponsible government which has thrown aside all considerations of humanity and of right and is running amuck . We are , let me say again , the sincere friends of the German people , and shall desire nothing so much as the early reestablishment of intimate relations of mutual advantage between us however hard it may be for them , for the time being , to believe that this is spoken from our hearts . We have borne with their present government through all these bitter months because of that friendship exercising a patience and forbearance which would otherwise have been impossible . We shall , happily , still have an opportunity to prove that friendship in our daily attitude and actions toward the millions of men and women of German birth and native sympathy who live among us and share our life , and we shall be proud to prove it toward all who are in fact loyal to their neighbors and to the government in the hour of test . They are , most of them , as true and loyal Americans as if they had never known any other fealty or allegiance . They will be prompt to stand with us in rebuking and restraining the few who may be of a different mind and purpose . If there should be disloyalty , it will be dealt with with a firm hand of stern repression but , if it lifts its head at all , it will lift it only here and there and without countenance except from a lawless and malignant few . It is a distressing and oppressive duty , gentlemen of the Congress , which I have performed in thus addressing you . There are , it may be , many months of fiery trial and sacrifice ahead of us . It is a fearful thing to lead this great peaceful people into war , into the most terrible and disastrous of all wars , civilization itself seeming to be in the balance . But the right is more precious than peace , and we shall fight for the things which we have always carried nearest our hearts for democracy , for the right of those who submit to authority to have a voice in their own governments , for the rights and liberties of small nations , for a universal dominion of right by such a concert of free peoples as shall bring peace and safety to all nations and make the world itself at last free . To such a task we can dedicate our lives and our fortunes , everything that we are and everything that we have , with the pride of those who know that the day has come when America is privileged to spend her blood and her might for the principles that gave her birth and happiness and the peace which she has treasured . God helping her , she can do no other .<speech_sep>Gentlemen of the Congress Once more , as repeatedly before , the spokesmen of the Central Empires have indicated their desire to discuss the objects of the war and the possible bases of a general peace . Parleys have been in progress at Brest Litovsk between Russian representatives and representatives of the Central Powers to which the attention of all the belligerents has been invited for the purpose of ascertaining whether it may be possible to extend these parleys into a general conference with regard to terms of peace and settlement . The Russian representatives presented not only a perfectly definite statement of the principles upon which they would be willing to conclude peace but also an equally definite program of the concrete application of those principles . The representatives of the Central Powers , on their part , presented an outline of settlement which , if much less definite , seemed susceptible of liberal interpretation until their specific program of practical terms was added . That program proposed no concessions at all either to the sovereignty of Russia or to the preferences of the populations with whose fortunes it dealt , but meant , in a word , that the Central Empires were to keep every foot of territory their armed forces had occupied , every province , every city , every point of vantage , as a permanent addition to their territories and their power . It is a reasonable conjecture that the general principles of settlement which they at first suggested originated with the more liberal statesmen of Germany and Austria , the men who have begun to feel the force of their own peoples thought and purpose , while the concrete terms of actual settlement came from the military leaders who have no thought but to keep what they have got . The negotiations have been broken off . The Russian representatives were sincere and in earnest . They cannot entertain such proposals of conquest and domination . The whole incident is full of significance . It is also full of perplexity . With whom are the Russian representatives dealing For whom are the representatives of the Central Empires speaking Are they speaking for the majorities of their respective parliaments or for the minority parties , that military and imperialistic minority which has so far dominated their whole policy and controlled the affairs of Turkey and of the Balkan states which have felt obliged to become their associates in this war The Russian representatives have insisted , very justly , very wisely , and in the true spirit of modern democracy , that the conferences they have been holding with the Teutonic and Turkish statesmen should be held within open , not closed , doors , and all the world has been audience , as was desired . To whom have we been listening , then To those who speak the spirit and intention of the Resolutions of the German Reichstag of the ninth of July last , the spirit and intention of the liberal leaders and parties of Germany , or to those who resist and defy that spirit and intention and insist upon conquest and subjugation Or are we listening , in fact , to both , unreconciled and in open and hopeless contradiction These are very serious and pregnant questions . Upon the answer to them depends the peace of the world . But , whatever the results of the parleys at Brest Litovsk , whatever the confusions of counsel and of purpose in the utterances of the spokesmen of the Central Empires , they have again attempted to acquaint the world with their objects in the war and have again challenged their adversaries to say what their objects are and what sort of settlement they would deem just and satisfactory . There is no good reason why that challenge should not be responded to , and responded to with the utmost candor . We did not wait for it . Not once , but again and again , we have laid our whole thought and purpose before the world , not in general terms only , but each time with sufficient definition to make it clear what sort of definitive terms of settlement must necessarily spring out of them . Within the last week Lloyd George has spoken with admirable candor and in admirable spirit for the people and Government of Great Britain . There is no confusion of counsel among the adversaries of the Central Powers , no uncertainty of principle , no vagueness of detail . The only secrecy of counsel , the only lack of fearless frankness , the only failure to make definite statement of the objects of the war , lies with Germany and her Allies . The issues of life and death hang upon these definitions . No statesman who has the least conception of his responsibility ought for a moment to permit himself to continue this tragical and appalling outpouring of blood and treasure unless he is sure beyond a peradventure that the objects of the vital sacrifice are part and parcel of the very life of society and that the people for whom he speaks think them right and imperative as he does . There is , moreover , a voice calling for these definitions of principle and of purpose which is , it seems to me , more thrilling and more compelling than any of the many moving voices with which the troubled air of the world is filled . It is the voice of the Russian people . They are prostrate and all but helpless , it would seem , before the grim power of Germany , which has hitherto known no relenting and no pity . Their power , apparently , is shattered . And yet their soul is not subservient . They will not yield either in principle or in action . Their conception of what is right , of what it is humane and honorable for them to accept , has been stated with a frankness , a largeness of view , a generosity of spirit , and a universal human sympathy which must challenge the admiration of every friend of mankind and they have refused to compound their ideals or desert others that they themselves may be safe . They call to us to say what it is that we desire , in what , if in anything , our purpose and our spirit differ from theirs and I believe that the people of the United States would wish me to respond , with utter simplicity and frankness . Whether their present leaders believe it or not , it is our heartfelt desire and hope that some way may be opened whereby we may be privileged to assist the people of Russia to attain their utmost hope of liberty and ordered peace . It will be our wish and purpose that the processes of peace , when they are begun , shall be absolutely open and that they shall involve and permit henceforth no secret understandings of any kind . The day of conquest and aggrandizement is gone by so is also the day of secret covenants entered into in the interest of particular governments and likely at some unlooked for moment to upset the peace of the world . It is this happy fact , now clear to the view of every public man whose thoughts do not still linger in an age that is dead and gone , which makes it possible for every nation whose purposes are consistent with justice and the peace of the world to avow now or at any other time the objects it has in view . We entered this war because violations of right had occurred which touched us to the quick and made the life of our own people impossible unless they were corrected and the world secured once for all against their recurrence . What we demand in this war , therefore , is nothing peculiar to ourselves . It is that the world be made fit and safe to live in and particularly that it be made safe for every peace loving nation which , like our own , wishes to live its own life , determine its own institutions , be assured of justice and fair dealing by the other peoples of the world as against force and selfish aggression . All the peoples of the world are in effect partners in this interest , and for our own part we see very clearly that unless justice be done to others it will not be done to us . The program of the world s peace , therefore , is our program and that program , the only possible program , as we see it , is this Open covenants of peace , openly arrived at , after which there shall be no private international understandings of any kind , but diplomacy shall proceed always frankly and in the public view . IAbsolute freedom of navigation upon the seas , outside territorial waters , alike in peace and in war , except as the seas may be closed in whole or in part by international action for the enforcement of international covenants . IIThe removal , so far as possible , of all economic barriers and the establishment of an equality of trade conditions among all the nations consenting to the peace and associating themselves for its maintenance . IAdequate guarantees given and taken that national armaments will be reduced to the lowest point consistent with domestic safety . A free , open minded , and absolutely impartial adjustment of all colonial claims , based upon a strict observance of the principle that in determining all such questions of sovereignty the interests of the populations concerned must have equal weight with the equitable claims of the government whose title is to be determined . VThe evacuation of all Russian territory and such a settlement of all questions affecting Russia as will secure the best and freest cooperation of the other nations of the world in obtaining for her an unhampered and unembarrassed opportunity for the independent determination of her own political development and national policy and assure her of a sincere welcome into the society of free nations under institutions of her own choosing and , more than a welcome , assistance also of every kind that she may need and may herself desire . The treatment accorded Russia by her sister nations in the months to come will be the acid test of their good will , of their comprehension of her needs as distinguished from their own interests , and of their intelligent and unselfish sympathy . VIBelgium , the whole world will agree , must be evacuated and restored , without any attempt to limit the sovereignty which she enjoys in common with all other free nations . No other single act will serve as this will serve to restore confidence among the nations in the laws which they have themselves set and determined for the government of their relations with one another . Without this healing act the whole structure and validity of international law is forever impaired . VIIAll French territory should be freed and the invaded portions restored , and the wrong done to France by Prussia in 1871 in the matter of Alsace Lorraine , which has unsettled the peace of the world for nearly fifty years , should be righted , in order that peace may once more be made secure in the interest of all . IA readjustment of the frontiers of Italy should be effected along clearly recognizable lines of nationality . The peoples of Austria Hungary , whose place among the nations we wish to see safeguarded and assured , should be accorded the freest opportunity of autonomous development . XRumania , Serbia , and Montenegro should be evacuated occupied territories restored Serbia accorded free and secure access to the sea and the relations of the several Balkan states to one another determined by friendly counsel along historically established lines of allegiance and nationality and international guarantees of the political and economic independence and territorial integrity of the several Balkan states should be entered into . XIThe Turkish portions of the present Ottoman Empire should be assured a secure sovereignty , but the other nationalities which are now under Turkish rule should be assured an undoubted security of life and an absolutely unmolested opportunity of autonomous development and the Dardanelles should be permanently opened as a free passage to the ships and commerce of all nations under international guarantees . XIIAn independent Polish state should be erected which should include the territories inhabited by indisputably Polish populations , which should be assured a free and secure access to the sea , and whose political and economic independence and territorial integrity should be guaranteed by international covenant . XIA general association of nations must be formed under specific covenants for the purpose of affording mutual guarantees of political independence and territorial integrity to great and small states alike . In regard to these essential rectifications of wrong and assertions of right we feel ourselves to be intimate partners of all the governments and peoples associated together against the Imperialists . We cannot be separated in interest or divided in purpose . We stand together until the end . For such arrangements and covenants we are willing to fight and to continue to fight until they are achieved but only because we wish the right to prevail and desire a just and stable peace such as can be secured only by removing the chief provocations to war , which this program does remove . We have no jealousy of German greatness , and there is nothing in this program that impairs it . We grudge her no achievement or distinction of learning or of pacific enterprise such as have made her record very bright and very enviable . We do not wish to injure her or to block in any way her legitimate influence or power . We do not wish to fight her either with arms or with hostile arrangements of trade if she is willing to associate herself with us and the other peace loving nations of the world in covenants of justice and law and fair dealing . We wish her only to accept a place of equality among the peoples of the world , the new world in which we now live , instead of a place of mastery . Neither do we presume to suggest to her any alteration or modification of her institutions . But it is necessary , we must frankly say , and necessary as a preliminary to any intelligent dealings with her on our part , that we should know whom her spokesmen speak for when they speak to us , whether for the Reichstag majority or for the military party and the men whose creed is imperial domination . We have spoken now , surely , in terms too concrete to admit of any further doubt or question . An evident principle runs through the whole program I have outlined . It is the principle of justice to all peoples and nationalities , and their right to live on equal terms of liberty and safety with one another , whether they be strong or weak . Unless this principle be made its foundation no part of the structure of international justice can stand . The people of the United States could act upon no other principle and to the vindication of this principle they are ready to devote their lives , their honor , and everything that they possess . The moral climax of this the culminating and final war for human liberty has come , and they are ready to put their own strength , their own highest purpose , their own integrity and devotion to the test .<speech_sep>Gentlemen of the Congress A situation has arisen in the foreign relations of the country of which it is my plain duty to inform you very frankly . It will be recalled that in February , 1915 , the Imperial German Government announced its intention to treat the waters surrounding Great Britain and Ireland as embraced within the seat of war and to destroy all merchant ships owned by its enemies that might be found within any part of that portion of the high seas , and that it warned all vessels , of neutral as well as of belligerent ownership , to keep out of the waters it had thus proscribed or else enter them at their peril . The Government of the United States earnestly protested . It took the position that such a policy could not be pursued without the practical certainty of gross and palpable violations of the law of nations , particularly if submarine craft were to be employed as its instruments , inasmuch as the rules prescribed by that law , rules founded upon principles of humanity and established for the protection of the lives of non combatants at sea , could not in the nature of the case be observed by such vessels . It based its protest on the ground that persons of neutral nationality and vessels of neutral ownership would be exposed to extreme and intolerable risks , and that no right to close any part of the high seas against their use or to expose them to such risks could lawfully be asserted by any belligerent government . The law of nations in these matters , upon which the Government of the United States based its protest , is not of recent origin or founded upon merely arbitrary principles set up by convention . It is based , on the contrary , upon manifest and imperative principles of humanity and has long been established with the approval and by the express assent of all civilized nations . Notwithstanding the earnest protest of our Government , the Imperial German Government at once proceeded to carry out the policy it had announced . It expressed the hope that the dangers involved , at any rate the dangers to neutral vessels , would be reduced to a minimum by the instructions which it had issued to its submarine commanders , and assured the Government of the United States that it would take every possible precaution both to respect the rights of neutrals and to safeguard the lives of non combatants . What has actually happened in the year which has since elapsed has shown that those hopes were not justified , those assurances insusceptible of being fulfilled . In pursuance of the policy of submarine warfare against the commerce of its adversaries , thus announced and entered upon by the Imperial German Government in despite of the solemn protest of this Government , the commanders of German undersea vessels have attacked merchant ships with greater and greater activity , not only upon the high seas surrounding Great Britain and Ireland but wherever they could encounter them , in a way that has grown more and more ruthless , more and more indiscriminate as the months have gone by , less and less observant of restraints of any kind and have delivered their attacks without compunction against vessels of every nationality and bound upon every sort of errand . Vessels of neutral ownership , even vessels of neutral ownership bound from neutral port to neutral port , have been destroyed along with vessels of belligerent ownership in constantly increasing numbers . Sometimes the merchantman attacked has been warned and summoned to surrender before being fired on or torpedoed sometimes passengers or crews have been vouchsafed the poor security of being allowed to take to the ship s boats before she was sent to the bottom . But again and again no warning has been given , no escape even to the ship s boats allowed to those on board . What this Government foresaw must happen has happened . Tragedy has followed tragedy on the seas in such fashion , with such attendant circumstances , as to make it grossly evident that warfare of such a sort , if warfare it be , cannot be carried on without the most palpable violation of the dictates alike of right and of humanity . Whatever the disposition and intention of the Imperial German Government , it has manifestly proved impossible for it to keep such methods of attack upon the commerce of its enemies within the bounds set by either the reason or the heart of mankind . In February of the present year the Imperial German Government informed this Government and the other neutral governments of the world that it had reason to believe that the Government of Great Britain had armed all merchant vessels of British ownership and had given them secret orders to attack any submarine of the enemy they might encounter upon the seas , and that the Imperial German Government felt justified in the circumstances in treating all armed merchantmen of belligerent ownership as auxiliary vessels of war , which it would have the right to destroy without warning . The law of nations has long recognized the right of merchantmen to carry arms for protection and to use them to repel attack , though to use them , in such circumstances , at their own risk but the Imperial German Government claimed the right to set these understandings aside in circumstances which it deemed extraordinary . Even the terms in which it announced its purpose thus still further to relax the restraints it had previously professed its willingness and desire to put upon the operations of its submarines carried the plain implication that at least vessels which were not armed would still be exempt from destruction without warning and that personal safety would be accorded their passengers and crews but even that limitation , if it was ever practicable to observe it , has in fact constituted no check at all upon the destruction of ships of every sort . Again and again the Imperial German Government has given this Government its solemn assurances that at least passenger ships would not be thus dealt with , and yet it has again and again permitted its undersea commanders to disregard those assurances with entire impunity . Great liners like the Lusitania and the Arabic and mere ferryboats like the Sussex have been attacked without a moment s warning , sometimes before they had even become aware that they were in the presence of an armed vessel of the enemy , and the lives of non combatants , passengers and crew , have been sacrificed wholesale , in a manner which the Government of the United States cannot but regard as wanton and without the slightest color of justification . No limit of any kind has in fact been set to the indiscriminate pursuit and destruction of merchantmen of all kinds and nationalities within the waters , constantly extending in area , where these operations have been carried on and the roll of Americans who have lost their lives on ships thus attacked and destroyed has grown month by month until the ominous toll has mounted into the hundreds . One of the latest and most shocking instances of this method of warfare was that of the destruction of the French cross Channel steamer Sussex . It must stand forth , as the sinking of the steamer Lusitania did , as so singularly tragical and unjustifiable as to constitute a truly terrible example of the inhumanity of submarine warfare as the commanders of German vessels have for the past twelvemonth been conducting it . If this instance stood alone , some explanation , some disavowal by the German Government , some evidence of criminal mistake or wilful disobedience on the part of the commander of the vessel that fired the torpedo might be sought or entertained but unhappily it does not stand alone . Recent events make the conclusion inevitable that it is only one instance , even though it be one of the most extreme and distressing instances , of the spirit and method of warfare which the Imperial German Government has mistakenly adopted , and which from the first exposed that Government to the reproach of thrusting all neutral rights aside in pursuit of its immediate objects . The Government of the United States has been very patient . At every stage of this distressing experience of tragedy after tragedy in which its own citizens were involved it has sought to be restrained from any extreme course of action or of protest by a thoughtful consideration of the extraordinary circumstances of this unprecedented war , and actuated in all that it said or did by the sentiments of genuine friendship which the people of the United States have always entertained and continue to entertain towards the German nation . It has of course accepted the successive explanations and assurances of the Imperial German Government as given in entire sincerity and good faith , and has hoped , even against hope , that it would prove to be possible for the German Government so to order and control the acts of its naval commanders as to square its policy with the principles of humanity as embodied in the law of nations . It has been willing to wait until the significance of the facts became absolutely unmistakable and susceptible of but one interpretation . That point has now unhappily been reached . The facts are susceptible of but one interpretation . The Imperial German Government has been unable to put any limits or restraints upon its warfare against either freight or passenger ships . It has therefore become painfully evident that the position which this Government took at the very outset is inevitable , namely , that the use of submarines for the destruction of an enemy s commerce is of necessity , because of the very character of the vessels employed and the very methods of attack which their employment of course involves , incompatible with the principles of humanity , the long established and incontrovertible rights of neutrals , and the sacred immunities of non combatants . I have deemed it my duty , therefore , to say to the Imperial German Government that if it is still its purpose to prosecute relentless and indiscriminate warfare against vessels of commerce by the use of submarines , notwithstanding the now demonstrated impossibility of conducting that warfare in accordance with what the Government of the United States must consider the sacred and indisputable rules of international law and the universally recognized dictates of humanity , the Government of the United States is at last forced to the conclusion that there is but one course it can pursue and that unless the Imperial German Government should now immediately declare and effect an abandonment of its present methods of warfare against passenger and freight carrying vessels this Government can have no choice but to sever diplomatic relations with the Government of the German Empire altogether . This decision I have arrived at with the keenest regret the possibility of the action contemplated I am sure all thoughtful Americans will look forward to with unaffected reluctance . But we cannot forget that we are in some sort and by the force of circumstances the responsible spokesmen of the rights of humanity , and that we cannot remain silent while those rights seem in process of being swept utterly away in the maelstrom of this terrible war . We owe it to a due regard for our own rights as a nation , to our sense of duty as a representative of the rights of neutrals the world over , and to a just conception of the rights of mankind to take this stand now with the utmost solemnity and firmness . I have taken it , and taken it in the confidence that it will meet with your approval and support . All sober minded men must unite in hoping that the Imperial German Government , which has in other circumstances stood as the champion of all that we are now contending for in the interest of humanity , may recognize the justice of our demands and meet them in the spirit in which they are made .<speech_sep>There has been a change of government . It began two years ago , when the House of Representatives became Democratic by a decisive majority . It has now been completed . The Senate about to assemble will also be Democratic . The offices of President and Vice President have been put into the hands of Democrats . What does the change mean That is the question that is uppermost in our minds to day . That is the question I am going to try to answer , in order , if I may , to interpret the occasion . It means much more than the mere success of a party . The success of a party means little except when the Nation is using that party for a large and definite purpose . No one can mistake the purpose for which the Nation now seeks to use the Democratic Party . It seeks to use it to interpret a change in its own plans and point of view . Some old things with which we had grown familiar , and which had begun to creep into the very habit of our thought and of our lives , have altered their aspect as we have latterly looked critically upon them , with fresh , awakened eyes have dropped their disguises and shown themselves alien and sinister . Some new things , as we look frankly upon them , willing to comprehend their real character , have come to assume the aspect of things long believed in and familiar , stuff of our own convictions . We have been refreshed by a new insight into our own life . We see that in many things that life is very great . It is incomparably great in its material aspects , in its body of wealth , in the diversity and sweep of its energy , in the industries which have been conceived and built up by the genius of individual men and the limitless enterprise of groups of men . It is great , also , very great , in its moral force . Nowhere else in the world have noble men and women exhibited in more striking forms the beauty and the energy of sympathy and helpfulness and counsel in their efforts to rectify wrong , alleviate suffering , and set the weak in the way of strength and hope . We have built up , moreover , a great system of government , which has stood through a long age as in many respects a model for those who seek to set liberty upon foundations that will endure against fortuitous change , against storm and accident . Our life contains every great thing , and contains it in rich abundance . But the evil has come with the good , and much fine gold has been corroded . With riches has come inexcusable waste . We have squandered a great part of what we might have used , and have not stopped to conserve the exceeding bounty of nature , without which our genius for enterprise would have been worthless and impotent , scorning to be careful , shamefully prodigal as well as admirably efficient . We have been proud of our industrial achievements , but we have not hitherto stopped thoughtfully enough to count the human cost , the cost of lives snuffed out , of energies overtaxed and broken , the fearful physical and spiritual cost to the men and women and children upon whom the dead weight and burden of it all has fallen pitilessly the years through . The groans and agony of it all had not yet reached our ears , the solemn , moving undertone of our life , coming up out of the mines and factories , and out of every home where the struggle had its intimate and familiar seat . With the great Government went many deep secret things which we too long delayed to look into and scrutinize with candid , fearless eyes . The great Government we loved has too often been made use of for private and selfish purposes , and those who used it had forgotten the people . At last a vision has been vouchsafed us of our life as a whole . We see the bad with the good , the debased and decadent with the sound and vital . With this vision we approach new affairs . Our duty is to cleanse , to reconsider , to restore , to correct the evil without impairing the good , to purify and humanize every process of our common life without weakening or sentimentalizing it . There has been something crude and heartless and unfeeling in our haste to succeed and be great . Our thought has been Let every man look out for himself , let every generation look out for itself , while we reared giant machinery which made it impossible that any but those who stood at the levers of control should have a chance to look out for themselves . We had not forgotten our morals . We remembered well enough that we had set up a policy which was meant to serve the humblest as well as the most powerful , with an eye single to the standards of justice and fair play , and remembered it with pride . But we were very heedless and in a hurry to be great . We have come now to the sober second thought . The scales of heedlessness have fallen from our eyes . We have made up our minds to square every process of our national life again with the standards we so proudly set up at the beginning and have always carried at our hearts . Our work is a work of restoration . We have itemized with some degree of particularity the things that ought to be altered and here are some of the chief items A tariff which cuts us off from our proper part in the commerce of the world , violates the just principles of taxation , and makes the Government a facile instrument in the hand of private interests a banking and currency system based upon the necessity of the Government to sell its bonds fifty years ago and perfectly adapted to concentrating cash and restricting credits an industrial system which , take it on all its sides , financial as well as administrative , holds capital in leading strings , restricts the liberties and limits the opportunities of labor , and exploits without renewing or conserving the natural resources of the country a body of agricultural activities never yet given the efficiency of great business undertakings or served as it should be through the instrumentality of science taken directly to the farm , or afforded the facilities of credit best suited to its practical needs watercourses undeveloped , waste places unreclaimed , forests untended , fast disappearing without plan or prospect of renewal , unregarded waste heaps at every mine . We have studied as perhaps no other nation has the most effective means of production , but we have not studied cost or economy as we should either as organizers of industry , as statesmen , or as individuals . Nor have we studied and perfected the means by which government may be put at the service of humanity , in safeguarding the health of the Nation , the health of its men and its women and its children , as well as their rights in the struggle for existence . This is no sentimental duty . The firm basis of government is justice , not pity . These are matters of justice . There can be no equality or opportunity , the first essential of justice in the body politic , if men and women and children be not shielded in their lives , their very vitality , from the consequences of great industrial and social processes which they can not alter , control , or singly cope with . Society must see to it that it does not itself crush or weaken or damage its own constituent parts . The first duty of law is to keep sound the society it serves . Sanitary laws , pure food laws , and laws determining conditions of labor which individuals are powerless to determine for themselves are intimate parts of the very business of justice and legal efficiency . These are some of the things we ought to do , and not leave the others undone , the old fashioned , never to be neglected , fundamental safeguarding of property and of individual right . This is the high enterprise of the new day To lift everything that concerns our life as a Nation to the light that shines from the hearthfire of every man s conscience and vision of the right . It is inconceivable that we should do this as partisans it is inconceivable we should do it in ignorance of the facts as they are or in blind haste . We shall restore , not destroy . We shall deal with our economic system as it is and as it may be modified , not as it might be if we had a clean sheet of paper to write upon and step by step we shall make it what it should be , in the spirit of those who question their own wisdom and seek counsel and knowledge , not shallow self satisfaction or the excitement of excursions whither they can not tell . Justice , and only justice , shall always be our motto . And yet it will be no cool process of mere science . The Nation has been deeply stirred , stirred by a solemn passion , stirred by the knowledge of wrong , of ideals lost , of government too often debauched and made an instrument of evil . The feelings with which we face this new age of right and opportunity sweep across our heartstrings like some air out of God s own presence , where justice and mercy are reconciled and the judge and the brother are one . We know our task to be no mere task of politics but a task which shall search us through and through , whether we be able to understand our time and the need of our people , whether we be indeed their spokesmen and interpreters , whether we have the pure heart to comprehend and the rectified will to choose our high course of action . This is not a day of triumph it is a day of dedication . Here muster , not the forces of party , but the forces of humanity . Men s hearts wait upon us men s lives hang in the balance men s hopes call upon us to say what we will do . Who shall live up to the great trust Who dares fail to try I summon all honest men , all patriotic , all forward looking men , to my side . God helping me , I will not fail them , if they will but counsel and sustain me<speech_sep>Madam President , Ladies of the Association I have found it a real privilege to be here to night and to listen to the addresses which you have heard . Though you may not all of you believe it , I would a great deal rather hear somebody else speak than speak myself but I should feel that I was omitting a duty if I did not address you to night and say some of the things that have been in my thought as I realized the approach of this evening and the duty that would fall upon me . The astonishing thing about the movement which you represent is , not that it has grown so slowly , but that it has grown so rapidly . No doubt for those who have been a long time in the struggle , like your honored president , it seems a long and arduous path that has been trodden , but when you think of the cumulating force of this movement in recent decades , you must agree with me that it is one of the most astonishing tides in modern history . Two generations ago , no doubt Madam President will agree with me in saying , it was a handful of women who were fighting this cause . Now it is a great multitude of women who are fighting it . And there are some interesting historical connections which I would like to attempt to point out to you . One of the most striking facts about the history of the United States is that at the outset it was a lawyers history . Almost all of the questions to which America addressed itself , say a hundred years ago , were legal questions , were questions of method , not questions of what you were going to do with your Government , but questions of how you were going to constitute your Government , how you were going to balance the powers of the States and the Federal Government , how you were going to balance the claims of property against the processes of liberty , how you were going to make your governments up so as to balance the parts against each other so that the legislature would check the executive , and the executive the legislature , and the courts both of them put together . The whole conception of government when the United States became a Nation was a mechanical conception of government , and the mechanical conception of government which underlay it was the Newtonian theory of the universe . If you pick up the Federalist , some parts of it read like a treatise on astronomy instead of a treatise on government . They speak of the centrifugal and the centripetal forces , and locate the President somewhere in a rotating system . The whole thing is a calculation of power and an adjustment of parts . There was a time when nobody but a lawyer could know enough to run the Government of the United States , and a distinguished English publicist once remarked , speaking of the complexity of the American Government , that it was no proof of the excellence of the American Constitution that it had been successfully operated , because the Americans could run any constitution . But there have been a great many technical difficulties in running it . And then something happened . A great question arose in this country which , though complicated with legal elements , was at bottom a human question , and nothing but a question of humanity . That was the slavery question . And is it not significant that it was then , and then for the first time , that women became prominent in politics in America Not many women those prominent in that day were so few that you can name them over in a brief catalogue , but , nevertheless , they then began to play a part in writing , not only , but in public speech , which was a very novel part for women to play in America . After the Civil War had settled some of what seemed to be the most difficult legal questions of our system , the life of the Nation began not only to unfold , but to accumulate . Life in the United States was a comparatively simple matter at the time of the Civil War . There was none of that underground struggle which is now so manifest to those who look only a little way beneath the surface . Stories such as Davis has told to night were uncommon in those simpler days . The pressure of low wages , the agony of obscure and unremunerated toil , did not exist in America in anything like the same proportions that they exist now . And as our life has unfolded and accumulated , as the contacts of it have become hot , as the populations have assembled in the cities , and the cool spaces of the country have been supplanted by the feverish urban areas , the whole nature of our political questions has been altered . They have ceased to be legal questions . They have more and more become social questions , questions with regard to the relations of human beings to one another , not merely their legal relations , but their moral and spiritual relations to one another . This has been most characteristic of American life in the last few decades , and as these questions have assumed greater and greater prominence , the movement which this association represents has gathered cumulative force . So that , if anybody asks himself , What does this gathering force mean , if he knows anything about the history of the country , he knows that it means something that has not only come to stay , but has come with conquering power . I get a little impatient sometimes about the discussion of the channels and methods by which it is to prevail . It is going to prevail , and that is a very superficial and ignorant view of it which attributes it to mere social unrest . It is not merely because the women are discontented . It is because the women have seen visions of duty , and that is something which we not only cannot resist , but , if we be true Americans , we do not wish to resist . America took its origin in visions of the human spirit , in aspirations for the deepest sort of liberty of the mind and of the heart , and as visions of that sort come up to the sight of those who are spiritually minded in America , America comes more and more into her birthright and into the perfection of her development . So that what we have to realize in dealing with forces of this sort is that we are dealing with the substance of life itself . I have felt as I sat here to night the wholesome contagion of the occasion . Almost every other time that I ever visited Atlantic City , I came to fight somebody . I hardly know how to conduct myself when I have not come to fight against anybody , but with somebody . I have come to suggest , among other things , that when the forces of nature are steadily working and the tide is rising to meet the moon , you need not be afraid that it will not come to its flood . We feel the tide we rejoice in the strength of it and we shall not quarrel in the long run as to the method of it . Because , when you are working with masses of men and organized bodies of opinion , you have got to carry the organized body along . The whole art and practice of government consists not in moving individuals , but in moving masses . It is all very well to run ahead and beckon , but , after all , you have got to wait for the body to follow . I have not come to ask you to be patient , because you have been , but I have come to congratulate you that there was a force behind you that will beyond any peradventure be triumphant , and for which you can afford a little while to wait .<speech_sep>