To the Senate and House of Representatives While I am aware that the time in which Congress proposes now to remain in session is very brief , and that it is its desire , as far as is consistent with the public interest , to avoid entering upon the general business of legislation , there is one subject which concerns so deeply the welfare of the country that I deem it my duty to bring it before you . I have no doubt that you will concur with me in the opinion that it is desirable to restore the States which were engaged in the rebellion to their proper relations to the Government and the country at as early a period as the people of those States shall be found willing to become peaceful and orderly communities and to adopt and maintain such constitutions and laws as will effectually secure the civil and political rights of all persons within their borders . The authority of the United States , which has been vindicated and established by its military power , must undoubtedly be asserted for the absolute protection of all its citizens in the full enjoyment of the freedom and security which is the object of a republican government but whenever the people of a rebellious State are ready to enter in good faith upon the accomplishment of this object , in entire conformity with the constitutional authority of Congress , it is certainly desirable that all causes of irritation should be removed as promptly as possible , that a more perfect union may be established and the country be restored to peace and prosperity . The convention of the people of Virginia which met in Richmond on Tuesday , December 3 , 1867 , framed a constitution for that State , which was adopted by the convention on the 17th of April , 1868 , and I desire respectfully to call the attention of Congress to the propriety of providing by law for the holding of an election in that State at some time during the months of May and June next , under the direction of the military commander of that district , at which the question of the adoption of that constitution shall be submitted to the citizens of the State and if this should seem desirable , I would recommend that a separate vote be taken upon such parts as may be thought expedient , and that at the same time and under the same authority there shall be an election for the officers provided under such constitution , and that the constitution , or such parts thereof as shall have been adopted by the people , be submitted to Congress on the first Monday of December next for its consideration , so that if the same is then approved the necessary steps will have been taken for the restoration of the State of Virginia to its proper relations to the Union . I am led to make this recommendation from the confident hope and belief that the people of that State are now ready to cooperate with the National Government in bringing it again into such relations to the Union as it ought as soon as possible to establish and maintain , and to give to all its people those equal rights under the law which were asserted in the Declaration of Independence in the words of one of the most illustrious of its sons . I desire also to ask the consideration of Congress to the question whether there is not just ground for believing that the constitution framed by a convention of the people of Mississippi for that State , and once rejected , might not be again submitted to the people of that State in like manner , and with the probability of the same result .<speech_sep>Fellow Citizens Under Providence I have been called a second time to act as Executive over this great nation . It has been my endeavor in the past to maintain all the laws , and , so far as lay in my power , to act for the best interests of the whole people . My best efforts will be given in the same direction in the future , aided , I trust , by my four years experience in the office . When my first term of the office of Chief Executive began , the country had not recovered from the effects of a great internal revolution , and three of the former States of the Union had not been restored to their Federal relations . It seemed to me wise that no new questions should be raised so long as that condition of affairs existed . Therefore the past four years , so far as I could control events , have been consumed in the effort to restore harmony , public credit , commerce , and all the arts of peace and progress . It is my firm conviction that the civilized world is tending toward republicanism , or government by the people through their chosen representatives , and that our own great Republic is destined to be the guiding star to all others . Under our Republic we support an army less than that of any European power of any standing and a navy less than that of either of at least five of them . There could be no extension of territory on the continent which would call for an increase of this force , but rather might such extension enable us to diminish it . The theory of government changes with general progress . Now that the telegraph is made available for communicating thought , together with rapid transit by steam , all parts of a continent are made contiguous for all purposes of government , and communication between the extreme limits of the country made easier than it was throughout the old thirteen States at the beginning of our national existence . The effects of the late civil strife have been to free the slave and make him a citizen . Yet he is not possessed of the civil rights which citizenship should carry with it . This is wrong , and should be corrected . To this correction I stand committed , so far as Executive influence can avail . Social equality is not a subject to be legislated upon , nor shall I ask that anything be done to advance the social status of the colored man , except to give him a fair chance to develop what there is good in him , give him access to the schools , and when he travels let him feel assured that his conduct will regulate the treatment and fare he will receive . The States lately at war with the General Government are now happily rehabilitated , and no Executive control is exercised in any one of them that would not be exercised in any other State under like circumstances . In the first year of the past Administration the proposition came up for the admission of Santo Domingo as a Territory of the Union . It was not a question of my seeking , but was a proposition from the people of Santo Domingo , and which I entertained . I believe now , as I did then , that it was for the best interest of this country , for the people of Santo Domingo , and all concerned that the proposition should be received favorably . It was , however , rejected constitutionally , and therefore the subject was never brought up again by me . In future , while I hold my present office , the subject of acquisition of territory must have the support of the people before I will recommend any proposition looking to such acquisition . I say here , however , that I do not share in the apprehension held by many as to the danger of governments becoming weakened and destroyed by reason of their extension of territory . Commerce , education , and rapid transit of thought and matter by telegraph and steam have changed all this . Rather do I believe that our Great Maker is preparing the world , in His own good time , to become one nation , speaking one language , and when armies and navies will be no longer required . My efforts in the future will be directed to the restoration of good feeling between the different sections of our common country to the restoration of our currency to a fixed value as compared with the world s standard of values gold and , if possible , to a par with it to the construction of cheap routes of transit throughout the land , to the end that the products of all may find a market and leave a living remuneration to the producer to the maintenance of friendly relations with all our neighbors and with distant nations to the reestablishment of our commerce and share in the carrying trade upon the ocean to the encouragement of such manufacturing industries as can be economically pursued in this country , to the end that the exports of home products and industries may pay for our imports the only sure method of returning to and permanently maintaining a specie basis to the elevation of labor and , by a humane course , to bring the aborigines of the country under the benign influences of education and civilization . It is either this or war of extermination Wars of extermination , engaged in by people pursuing commerce and all industrial pursuits , are expensive even against the weakest people , and are demoralizing and wicked . Our superiority of strength and advantages of civilization should make us lenient toward the Indian . The wrong inflicted upon him should be taken into account and the balance placed to his credit . The moral view of the question should be considered and the question asked , Can not the Indian be made a useful and productive member of society by proper teaching and treatment If the effort is made in good faith , we will stand better before the civilized nations of the earth and in our own consciences for having made it . All these things are not to be accomplished by one individual , but they will receive my support and such recommendations to Congress as will in my judgment best serve to carry them into effect . I beg your support and encouragement . It has been , and is , my earnest desire to correct abuses that have grown up in the civil service of the country . To secure this reformation rules regulating methods of appointment and promotions were established and have been tried . My efforts for such reformation shall be continued to the best of my judgment . The spirit of the rules adopted will be maintained . I acknowledge before this assemblage , representing , as it does , every section of our country , the obligation I am under to my countrymen for the great honor they have conferred on me by returning me to the highest office within their gift , and the further obligation resting on me to render to them the best services within my power . This I promise , looking forward with the greatest anxiety to the day when I shall be released from responsibilities that at times are almost overwhelming , and from which I have scarcely had a respite since the eventful firing upon Fort Sumter , in April , 1861 , to the present day . My services were then tendered and accepted under the first call for troops growing out of that event . I did not ask for place or position , and was entirely without influence or the acquaintance of persons of influence , but was resolved to perform my part in a struggle threatening the very existence of the nation . I performed a conscientious duty , without asking promotion or command , and without a revengeful feeling toward any section or individual . Notwithstanding this , throughout the war , and from my candidacy for my present office in 1868 to the close of the last Presidential campaign , I have been the subject of abuse and slander scarcely ever equaled in political history , which to day I feel that I can afford to disregard in view of your verdict , which I gratefully accept as my vindication .<speech_sep>To the Senate of the United States I transmit to the Senate , for consideration with a view to its ratification , an additional article to the treaty of the 29th of November last , for the annexation of the Dominican Republic to the United States , stipulating for an extension of the time for exchanging the ratifications thereof , signed in this city on the 14th instant , by the plenipotentiaries of the parties . It was my intention to have also negotiated with the plenipotentiary of San Domingo amendments to the treaty of annexation to obviate objections which may be urged against the treaty as it is now worded but on reflection I deem it better to submit to the Senate the propriety of their amending the treaty as follows First , to specify that the obligations of this Government shall not exceed the 1 , 500 , 000 stipulated in the treaty secondly , to determine the manner of appointing the agents to receive and disburse the same thirdly , to determine the class of creditors who shall take precedence in the settlement of their claims and , finally , to insert such amendments as may suggest themselves to the minds of Senators to carry out in good faith the conditions of the treaty submitted to the Senate of the United States in January last , according to the spirit and intent of that treaty . From the most reliable information I can obtain , the sum specified in the treaty will pay every just claim against the Republic of San Domingo and leave a balance sufficient to carry on a Territorial government until such time as new laws for providing a Territorial revenue can be enacted and put in force . I feel an unusual anxiety for the ratification of this treaty , because I believe it will redound greatly to the glory of the two countries interested , to civilization , and to the extirpation of the institution of slavery . The doctrine promulgated by President Monroe has been adhered to by all political parties , and I now deem it proper to assert the equally important principle that hereafter no territory on this continent shall be regarded as subject of transfer to a European power . The Government of San Domingo has voluntarily sought this annexation . It is a weak power , numbering probably less than 120 , 000 souls , and yet possessing one of the richest territories under the sun , capable of supporting a population of 10 , 000 , 000 people in luxury . The people of San Domingo are not capable of maintaining themselves in their present condition , and must look for outside support . They yearn for the protection of our free institutions and laws , our progress and civilization . Shall we refuse them I have information which I believe reliable that a European power stands ready now to offer 2 , 000 , 000 for the possession of Samana Bay alone . If refused by us , with what grace can we prevent a foreign power from attempting to secure the prize The acquisition of San Domingo is desirable because of its geographical position . It commands the entrance to the Caribbean Sea and the Isthmus transit of commerce . It possesses the richest soil , best and most capacious harbors , most salubrious climate , and the most valuable products of the forests , mine , and soil of any of the West India Islands . Its possession by us will in a few years build up a coastwise commerce of immense magnitude , which will go far toward restoring to us our lost merchant marine . It will give to us those articles which we consume so largely and do not produce , thus equalizing our exports and imports . In case of foreign war it will give us command of all the islands referred to , and thus prevent an enemy from ever again possessing himself of rendezvous upon our very coast . At present our coast trade between the States bordering on the Atlantic and those bordering on the Gulf of Mexico is cut into by the Bahamas and the Antilles . Twice we must , as it were , pass through foreign countries to get by sea from Georgia to the west coast of Florida . San Domingo , with a stable government , under which her immense resources can be developed , will give remunerative wages to tens of thousands of laborers not now on the island . This labor will take advantage of every available means of transportation to abandon the adjacent islands and seek the blessings of freedom and its sequence each inhabitant receiving the reward of his own labor . Porto Rico and Cuba will have to abolish slavery , as a measure of self preservation to retain their laborers . San Domingo will become a large consumer of the products of Northern farms and manufactories . The cheap rate at which her citizens can be furnished with food , tools , and machinery will make it necessary that the contiguous islands should have the same advantages in order to compete in the production of sugar , coffee , tobacco , tropical fruits , etc . This will open to us a still wider market for our products . The production of our own supply of these articles will cut off more than one hundred millions of our annual imports , besides largely increasing our exports . With such a picture it is easy to see how our large debt abroad is ultimately to be extinguished . With a balance of trade against us including interest on bonds held by foreigners and money spent by our citizens traveling in foreign lands equal to the entire yield of the precious metals in this country , it is not so easy to see how this result is to be otherwise accomplished . The acquisition of San Domingo is an adherence to the Monroe doctrine it is a measure of national protection it is asserting our just claim to a controlling influence over the great commercial traffic soon to flow from east to west by the way of the Isthmus of Darien it is to build up our merchant marine it is to furnish new markets for the products of our farms , shops , and manufactories it is to make slavery insupportable in Cuba and Porto Rico at once and ultimately so in Brazil it is to settle the unhappy condition of Cuba , and end an exterminating conflict it is to provide honest means of paying our honest debts , without overtaxing the people it is to furnish our citizens with the necessaries of everyday life at cheaper rates than ever before and it is , in fine , a rapid stride toward that greatness which the intelligence , industry , and enterprise of the citizens of the United States entitle this country to assume among nations .<speech_sep>To the Senate and House of Representatives In my annual message to Congress at the beginning of its present session I referred to the contest which had then for more than a year existed in the island of Cuba between a portion of its inhabitants and the Government of Spain , and the feelings and sympathies of the people and Government of the United States for the people of Cuba , as for all peoples struggling for liberty and self government , and said that the contest has at no time assumed the conditions which amount to war in the sense of international law , or which would show the existence of a de facto political organization of the insurgents sufficient to justify a recognition of belligerency . During the six months which have passed since the date of that message the condition of the insurgents has not improved , and the insurrection itself , although not subdued , exhibits no signs of advance , but seems to be confined to an irregular system of hostilities , carried on by small and illy armed bands of men , roaming without concentration through the woods and the sparsely populated regions of the island , attacking from ambush convoys and small bands of troops , burning plantations and the estates of those not sympathizing with their cause . But if the insurrection has not gained ground , it is equally true that Spain has not suppressed it . Climate , disease , and the occasional bullet have worked destruction among the soldiers of Spain and although the Spanish authorities have possession of every seaport and every town on the island , they have not been able to subdue the hostile feeling which has driven a considerable number of the native inhabitants of the island to armed resistance against Spain , and still leads them to endure the dangers and the privations of a roaming life of guerrilla warfare . On either side the contest has been conducted , and is still carried on , with a lamentable disregard of human life and of the rules and practices which modern civilization has prescribed in mitigation of the necessary horrors of war . The torch of Spaniard and of Cuban is alike busy in carrying devastation over fertile regions murderous and revengeful decrees are issued and executed by both parties . Count Valmaseda and Colonel Boet , on the part of Spain , have each startled humanity and aroused the indignation of the civilized world by the execution , each , of a score of prisoners at a time , while General Quesada , the Cuban chief , coolly and with apparent unconsciousness of aught else than a proper act , has admitted the slaughter , by his own deliberate order , in one day , of upward of 650 prisoners of war . A summary trial , with few , if any , escapes from conviction , followed by immediate execution , is the fate of those arrested on either side on suspicion of infidelity to the cause of the party making the arrest . Whatever may be the sympathies of the people or of the Government of the United States for the cause or objects for which a part of the people of Cuba are understood to have put themselves in armed resistance to the Government of Spain , there can be no just sympathy in a conflict carried on by both parties alike in such barbarous violation of the rules of civilized nations and with such continued outrage upon the plainest principles of humanity . We can not discriminate in our censure of their mode of conducting their contest between the Spaniards and the Cubans . Each commit the same atrocities and outrage alike the established rules of war . The properties of many of our citizens have been destroyed or embargoed , the lives of several have been sacrificed , and the liberty of others has been restrained . In every case that has come to the knowledge of the Government an early and earnest demand for reparation and indemnity has been made , and most emphatic remonstrance has been presented against the manner in which the strife is conducted and against the reckless disregard of human life , the wanton destruction of material wealth , and the cruel disregard of the established rules of civilized warfare . I have , since the beginning of the present session of Congress , communicated to the House of Representatives , upon their request , an account of the steps which I had taken in the hope of bringing this sad conflict to an end and of securing to the people of Cuba the blessings and the right of independent self government . The efforts thus made failed , but not without an assurance from Spain that the good offices of this Government might still avail for the objects to which they had been addressed . During the whole contest the remarkable exhibition has been made of large numbers of Cubans escaping from the island and avoiding the risks of war congregating in this country , at a safe distance from the scene of danger , and endeavoring to make war from our shores , to urge our people into the fight which they avoid , and to embroil this Government in complications and possible hostilities with Spain . It can scarce be doubted that this last result is the real object of these parties , although carefully covered under the deceptive and apparently plausible demand for a mere recognition of belligerency . It is stated on what I have reason to regard as good authority that Cuban bonds have been prepared to a large amount , whose payment is made dependent upon the recognition by the United States of either Cuban belligerency or independence . The object of making their value thus contingent upon the action of this Government is a subject for serious reflection . In determining the course to be adopted on the demand thus made for a recognition of belligerency the liberal and peaceful principles adopted by the Father of his Country and the eminent statesmen of his day , and followed by succeeding Chief Magistrates and the men of their day , may furnish a safe guide to those of us now charged with the direction and control of the public safety . From 1789 to 1815 the dominant thought of our statesmen was to keep the United States out of the wars which were devastating Europe . The discussion of measures of neutrality begins with the State papers of Jefferson when Secretary of State . He shows that they are measures of national right as well as of national duty that misguided individual citizens can not be tolerated in making war according to their own caprice , passions , interests , or foreign sympathies that the agents of foreign governments , recognized or unrecognized , can not be permitted to abuse our hospitality by usurping the functions of enlisting or equipping military or naval forces within our territory . Washington inaugurated the policy of neutrality and of absolute abstinence from all foreign entangling alliances , which resulted , in 1794 , in the first municipal enactment for the observance of neutrality . The duty of opposition to filibustering has been admitted by every President . Washington encountered the efforts of Genet and of the French revolutionists John Adams , the projects of Miranda Jefferson , the schemes of Aaron Burr . Madison and subsequent Presidents had to deal with the question of foreign enlistment or equipment in the United States , and since the days of John Quincy Adams it has been one of the constant cares of Government in the United States to prevent piratical expeditions against the feeble Spanish American Republics from leaving our shores . In no country are men wanting for any enterprise that holds out promise of adventure or of gain . In the early days of our national existence the whole continent of America outside of the limits of the United States and all its islands were in colonial dependence upon European powers . The revolutions which from 1810 spread almost simultaneously through all the Spanish American continental colonies resulted in the establishment of new States , like ourselves , of European origin , and interested in excluding European politics and the questions of dynasty and of balances of power from further influence in the New World . The American policy of neutrality , important before , became doubly so from the fact that it became applicable to the new Republics as well as to the mother country . It then devolved upon us to determine the great international question at what time and under what circumstances to recognize a new power as entitled to a place among the family of nations , as well as the preliminary question of the attitude to be observed by this Government toward the insurrectionary party pending the contest . Monroe concisely expressed the rule which has controlled the action of this Government with reference to revolting colonies pending their struggle by saying As soon as the movement assumed such a steady and consistent form as to make the success of the Provinces probable , the rights to which they were entitled by the laws of nations as equal parties to a civil war were extended to them . The strict adherence to this rule of public policy has been one of the highest honors of American statesmanship , and has secured to this Government the confidence of the feeble powers on this continent , which induces them to rely upon its friendship and absence of designs of conquest and to look to the United States for example and moral protection . It has given to this Government a position of prominence and of influence which it should not abdicate , but which imposes upon it the most delicate duties of right and of honor regarding American questions , whether those questions affect emancipated colonies or colonies still subject to European dominion . The question of belligerency is one of fact , not to be decided by sympathies for or prejudices against either party . The relations between the parent state and the insurgents must amount in fact to war in the sense of international law . Fighting , though fierce and protracted , does not alone constitute war . There must be military forces acting in accordance with the rules and customs of war , flags of truce , cartels , exchange of prisoners , etc . and to justify a recognition of belligerency there must be , above all , a de facto political organization of the insurgents sufficient in character and resources to constitute it , if left to itself , a state among nations capable of discharging the duties of a state and of meeting the just responsibilities it may incur as such toward other powers in the discharge of its national duties . Applying the best information which I have been enabled to gather , whether from official or unofficial sources , including the very exaggerated statements which each party gives to all that may prejudice the opposite or give credit to its own side of the question , I am unable to see in the present condition of the contest in Cuba those elements which are requisite to constitute war in the sense of international law . The insurgents hold no town or city have no established seat of government they have no prize courts no organization for the receiving and collecting of revenue no seaport to which a prize may be carried or through which access can be had by a foreign power to the limited interior territory and mountain fastnesses which they occupy . The existence of a legislature representing any popular constituency is more than doubtful . In the uncertainty that hangs around the entire insurrection there is no palpable evidence of an election , of any delegated authority , or of any government outside the limits of the camps occupied from day to day by the roving companies of insurgent troops there is no commerce , no trade , either internal or foreign , no manufactures . The late commander in chief of the insurgents , having recently come to the United States , publicly declared that all commercial intercourse or trade with the exterior world has been utterly cut off and he further added Today we have not 10 , 000 arms in Cuba . It is a well established principle of public law that a recognition by a foreign state of belligerent rights to insurgents under circumstances such as now exist in Cuba , if not justified by necessity , is a gratuitous demonstration of moral support to the rebellion . Such necessity may yet hereafter arrive , but it has not yet arrived , nor is its probability clearly to be seen . If it be war between Spain and Cuba , and be so recognized , it is our duty to provide for the consequences which may ensue in the embarrassment to our commerce and the interference with our revenue . If belligerency be recognized , the commercial marine of the United States becomes liable to search and to seizure by the commissioned cruisers of both parties they become subject to the adjudication of prize courts . Our large coastwise trade between the Atlantic and the Gulf States and between both and the Isthmus of Panama and the States of South America engaging the larger part of our commercial marine passes of necessity almost in sight of the island of Cuba . Under the treaty with Spain of 1795 , as well as by the law of nations , our vessels will be liable to visit on the high seas . In case of belligerency the carrying of contraband , which now is lawful , becomes liable to the risks of seizure and condemnation . The parent Government becomes relieved from responsibility for acts done in the insurgent territory , and acquires the right to exercise against neutral commerce all the powers of a party to a maritime war . To what consequences the exercise of those powers may lead is a question which I desire to commend to the serious consideration of Congress . In view of the gravity of this question , I have deemed it my duty to invite the attention of the war making power of the country to all the relations and bearings of the question in connection with the declaration of neutrality and granting of belligerent rights . There is not a de facto government in the island of Cuba sufficient to execute law and maintain just relations with other nations . Spain has not been able to suppress the opposition to Spanish rule on the island , nor to award speedy justice to other nations , or citizens of other nations , when their rights have been invaded . There are serious complications growing out of the seizure of American vessels upon the high seas , executing American citizens without proper trial , and confiscating or embargoing the property of American citizens . Solemn protests have been made against every infraction of the rights either of individual citizens of the United States or the rights of our flag upon the high seas , and all proper steps have been taken and are being pressed for the proper reparation of every indignity complained of . The question of belligerency , however , which is to be decided upon definite principles and according to ascertained facts , is entirely different from and unconnected with the other questions of the manner in which the strife is carried on both sides and the treatment of our citizens entitled to our protection . The questions concern our own dignity and responsibility , and they have been made , as I have said , the subjects of repeated communications with Spain and of protests and demands for redress on our part . It is hoped that these will not be disregarded , but should they be these questions will be made the subject of a further communication to Congress .<speech_sep>To the Senate and House of Representatives In transmitting to you this my fourth annual message it is with thankfulness to the Giver of All Good that as a nation we have been blessed for the past year with peace at home , peace abroad , and a general prosperity vouchsafed to but few peoples . With the exception of the recent devastating fire which swept from the earth with a breath , as it were , millions of accumulated wealth in the city of Boston , there has been no overshadowing calamity within the year to record . It is gratifying to note how , like their fellow citizens of the city of Chicago under similar circumstances a year earlier , the citizens of Boston are rallying under their misfortunes , and the prospect that their energy and perseverance will overcome all obstacles and show the same prosperity soon that they would had no disaster befallen them . Otherwise we have been free from pestilence , war , and calamities , which often overtake nations and , as far as human judgment can penetrate the future , no cause seems to exist to threaten our present peace . When Congress adjourned in June last , a question had been raised by Great Britain , and was then pending , which for a time seriously imperiled the settlement by friendly arbitration of the grave differences between this Government and that of Her Britannic Majesty , which by the treaty of Washington had been referred to the tribunal of arbitration which had met at Geneva , in Switzerland . The arbitrators , however , disposed of the question which had jeoparded the whole of the treaty and threatened to involve the two nations in most unhappy relations toward each other in a manner entirely satisfactory to this Government and in accordance with the views and the policy which it had maintained . The tribunal , which had convened at Geneva in December , concluded its laborious session on the 14th day of September last , on which day , having availed itself of the discretionary power given to it by the treaty to award a sum in gross , it made its decision , whereby it awarded the sum of 15 , 500 , 000 in gold as the indemnity to be paid by Great Britain to the United States for the satisfaction of all the claims referred to its consideration . This decision happily disposes of a long standing difference between the two Governments , and , in connection with another award , made by the German Emperor under a reference to him by the same treaty , leaves these two Governments without a shadow upon the friendly relations which it is my sincere hope may forever remain equally unclouded . The report of the agent of the United States appointed to attend the Geneva tribunal , accompanied by the protocols of the proceedings of the arbitrators , the arguments of the counsel of both Governments , the award of the tribunal , and the opinions given by the several arbitrators , is transmitted herewith . I have caused to be communicated to the heads of the three friendly powers who complied with the joint request made to them under the treaty the thanks of this Government for the appointment of arbitrators made by them respectively , and also my thanks to the eminent personages named by them , and my appreciation of the dignity , patience , impartiality , and great ability with which they discharged their arduous and high functions . Her Majesty s Government has communicated to me the appreciation by Her Majesty of the ability and indefatigable industry displayed by Adams , the arbitrator named on the part of this Government during the protracted inquiries and discussions of the tribunal . I cordially unite with Her Majesty in this appreciation . It is due to the agent of the United States before the tribunal to record my high appreciation of the marked ability , unwearied patience , and the prudence and discretion with which he has conducted the very responsible and delicate duties committed to him , as it is also due to the learned and eminent counsel who attended the tribunal on the part of this Government to express my sense of the talents and wisdom which they brought to bear in the attainment of the result so happily reached . It will be the province of Congress to provide for the distribution among those who may be entitled to it of their respective shares of the money to be paid . Although the sum awarded is not payable until a year from the date of the award , it is deemed advisable that no time be lost in making a proper examination of the several cases in which indemnification may be due . I consequently recommend the creation of a board of commissioners for the purpose . By the thirty fourth article of the treaty of Washington the respective claims of the United States and of Great Britain in their construction of the treaty of the 15th of June , 1846 , defining the boundary line between their respective territories , were submitted to the arbitration and award of His Majesty the Emperor of Germany , to decide which of those claims is most in accordance with the true interpretation of the treaty of 1846 . His Majesty the Emperor of Germany , having been pleased to undertake the arbitration , has the earnest thanks of this Government and of the people of the United States for the labor , pains , and care which he has devoted to the consideration of this long pending difference . I have caused an expression of my thanks to be communicated to His Majesty . Bancroft , the representative of this Government at Berlin , conducted the case and prepared the statement on the part of the United States with the ability that his past services justified the public in expecting at his hands . As a member of the Cabinet at the date of the treaty which has given rise to the discussion between the two Governments , as the minister to Great Britain when the construction now pronounced unfounded was first advanced , and as the agent and representative of the Government to present the case and to receive the award , he has been associated with the question in all of its phases , and in every stage has manifested a patriotic zeal and earnestness in maintenance of the claim of the United States . He is entitled to much credit for the success which has attended the submission . After a patient investigation of the case and of the statements of each party , His Majesty the Emperor , on the 21st day of October last , signed his award in writing , decreeing that the claim of the Government of the United States , that the boundary line between the territories of Her Britannic Majesty and the United States should be drawn through the Haro Channel , is most in accordance with the true interpretation of the treaty concluded on the 15th of June , 1846 , between the Governments of Her Britannic Majesty and of the United States . Copies of the case presented on behalf of each Government , and of the statement in reply of each , and a translation of the award , are transmitted herewith . This award confirms the United States in their claim to the important archipelago of islands lying between the continent and Vancouvers Island , which for more than twenty six years ever since the ratification of the treaty Great Britain has contested , and leaves us , for the first time in the history of the United States as a nation , without a question of disputed boundary between our territory and the possessions of Great Britain on this continent . It is my grateful duty to acknowledge the prompt , spontaneous action of Her Majesty s Government in giving effect to the award . In anticipation of any request from this Government , and before the reception in the United States of the award signed by the Emperor , Her Majesty had given instructions for the removal of her troops which had been stationed there and for the cessation of all exercise or claim of jurisdiction , so as to leave the United States in the exclusive possession of the lately disputed territory . I am gratified to be able to announce that the orders for the removal of the troops have been executed , and that the military joint occupation of San Juan has ceased . The islands are now in the exclusive possession of the United States . It now becomes necessary to complete the survey and determination of that portion of the boundary line through the Haro Channel upon which the commission which determined the remaining part of the line were unable to agree . I recommend the appointment of a commission to act jointly with one which may be named by Her Majesty for that purpose . Experience of the difficulties attending the determination of our admitted line of boundary , after the occupation of the territory and its settlement by those owing allegiance to the respective Governments , points to the importance of establishing , by natural objects or other monuments , the actual line between the territory acquired by purchase from Russia and the adjoining possessions of Her Britannic Majesty . The region is now so sparsely occupied that no conflicting interests of individuals or of jurisdiction are likely to interfere to the delay or embarrassment of the actual location of the line . If deferred until population shall enter and occupy the territory , some trivial contest of neighbors may again array the two Governments in antagonism . I therefore recommend the appointment of a commission , to act jointly with one that may be appointed on the part of Great Britain , to determine the line between our Territory of Alaska and the conterminous possessions of Great Britain . In my last annual message I recommended the legislation necessary on the part of the United States to bring into operation the articles of the treaty of Washington of May 8 , 1871 , relating to the fisheries and to other matters touching the relations of the United States toward the British North American possessions , to become operative so soon as the proper legislation should be had on the part of Great Britain and its possessions . That legislation on the part of Great Britain and its possessions had not then been had , and during the session of Congress a question was raised which for the time raised a doubt whether any action by Congress in the direction indicated would become important . This question has since been disposed of , and I have received notice that the Imperial Parliament and the legislatures of the provincial governments have passed laws to carry the provisions of the treaty on the matters referred to into operation . I therefore recommend your early adoption of the legislation in the same direction necessary on the part of this Government . The joint commission for determining the boundary line between the United States and the British possessions between the Lake of the Woods and the Rocky Mountains has organized and entered upon its work . It is desirable that the force be increased , in order that the completion of the survey and determination of the line may be the sooner attained . To this end I recommend that a sufficient appropriation be made . With France , our earliest ally Russia , the constant and steady friend of the United States Germany , with whose Government and people we have so many causes of friendship and so many common sympathies , and the other powers of Europe , our relations are maintained on the most friendly terms . Since my last annual message the exchange has been made of the ratifications of a treaty with the Austro Hungarian Empire relating to naturalization also of a treaty with the German Empire respecting consuls and trade marks also of a treaty with Sweden and Norway relating to naturalization all of which treaties have been duly proclaimed . Congress at its last session having made an appropriation to defray the expense of commissioners on the part of the United States to the International Statistical Congress at Petersburg , the persons appointed in that character proceeded to their destination and attended the sessions of the congress . Their report shall in due season be laid before you . This congress meets at intervals of about three years , and has held its sessions in several of the countries of Europe . I submit to your consideration the propriety of extending an invitation to the congress to hold its next meeting in the United States . The Centennial Celebration to be held in 1876 would afford an appropriate occasion for such meeting . Preparations are making for the international exposition to be held during the next year in Vienna , on a scale of very great magnitude . The tendency of these expositions is in the direction of advanced civilization , and of the elevation of industry and of labor , and of the increase of human happiness , as well as of greater intercourse and good will between nations . As this exposition is to be the first which will have been held in eastern Europe , it is believed that American inventors and manufacturers will be ready to avail themselves of the opportunity for the presentation of their productions if encouraged by proper aid and protection . At the last session of Congress authority was given for the appointment of one or more agents to represent this Government at the exposition . The authority thus given has been exercised , but , in the absence of any appropriation , there is danger that the important benefits which the occasion offers will in a large degree be lost to citizens of the United States . I commend the subject strongly to your consideration , and recommend that an adequate appropriation be made for the purpose . To further aid American exhibitors at the Vienna Exposition , I would recommend , in addition to an appropriation of money , that the Secretary of the Navy be authorized to fit up two naval vessels to transport between our Atlantic cities and Trieste , or the most convenient port to Vienna , and back , their articles for exhibition . Since your last session the President of the Mexican Republic , distinguished by his high character and by his services to his country , has died . His temporary successor has now been elected with great unanimity by the people a proof of confidence on their part in his patriotism and wisdom which it is believed will be confirmed by the results of his administration . It is particularly desirable that nothing should be left undone by the Government of either Republic to strengthen their relations as neighbors and friends . It is much to be regretted that many lawless acts continue to disturb the quiet of the settlements on the border between our territory and that of Mexico , and that complaints of wrongs to American citizens in various parts of the country are made . The revolutionary condition in which the neighboring Republic has so long been involved has in some degree contributed to this disturbance . It is to be hoped that with a more settled rule of order through the Republic , which may be expected from the present Government , the acts of which just complaint is made will cease . The proceedings of the commission under the convention with Mexico of the 4th of July , 1868 , on the subject of claims , have , unfortunately , been checked by an obstacle , for the removal of which measures have been taken by the two Governments which it is believed will prove successful . The commissioners appointed , pursuant to the joint resolution of Congress of the 7th of May last , to inquire into depredations on the Texan frontier have diligently made investigations in that quarter . Their report upon the subject will be communicated to you . Their researches were necessarily incomplete , partly on account of the limited appropriation made by Congress . Mexico , on the part of that Government , has appointed a similar commission to investigate these outrages . It is not announced officially , but the press of that country states that the fullest investigation is desired , and that the cooperation of all parties concerned is invited to secure that end . I therefore recommend that a special appropriation be made at the earliest day practicable , to enable the commissioners on the part of the United States to return to their labors without delay . It is with regret that I have again to announce a continuance of the disturbed condition of the island of Cuba . No advance toward the pacification of the discontented part of the population has been made . While the insurrection has gained no advantages and exhibits no more of the elements of power or of the prospects of ultimate success than were exhibited a year ago , Spain , on the other hand , has not succeeded in its repression , and the parties stand apparently in the same relative attitude which they have occupied for a long time past . This contest has lasted now for more than four years . Were its scene at a distance from our neighborhood , we might be indifferent to its result , although humanity could not be unmoved by many of its incidents wherever they might occur . It is , however , at our door . I can not doubt that the continued maintenance of slavery in Cuba is among the strongest inducements to the continuance of this strife . A terrible wrong is the natural cause of a terrible evil . The abolition of slavery and the introduction of other reforms in the administration of government in Cuba could not fail to advance the restoration of peace and order . It is greatly to be hoped that the present liberal Government of Spain will voluntarily adopt this view . The law of emancipation , which was passed more than two years since , has remained unexecuted in the absence of regulations for its enforcement . It was but a feeble step toward emancipation , but it was the recognition of right , and was hailed as such , and exhibited Spain in harmony with sentiments of humanity and of justice and in sympathy with the other powers of the Christian and civilized world . Within the past few weeks the regulations for carrying out the law of emancipation have been announced , giving evidence of the sincerity of intention of the present Government to carry into effect the law of 1870 . I have not failed to urge the consideration of the wisdom , the policy , and the justice of a more effective system for the abolition of the great evil which oppresses a race and continues a bloody and destructive contest close to our border , as well as the expediency and the justice of conceding reforms of which the propriety is not questioned . Deeply impressed with the conviction that the continuance of slavery is one of the most active causes of the continuance of the unhappy condition in Cuba , I regret to believe that citizens of the United States , or those claiming to be such , are large holders in Cuba of what is there claimed as property , but which is forbidden and denounced by the laws of the United States . They are thus , in defiance of the spirit of our own laws , contributing to the continuance of this distressing and sickening contest . In my last annual message I referred to this subject , and I again recommend such legislation as may be proper to denounce , and , if not prevent , at least to discourage American citizens from holding or dealing in slaves . It is gratifying to announce that the ratifications of the convention concluded under the auspices of this Government between Spain on the one part and the allied Republics of the Pacific on the other , providing for an armistice , have been exchanged . A copy of the instrument is herewith submitted . It is hoped that this may be followed by a permanent peace between the same parties . The differences which at one time threatened the maintenance of peace between Brazil and the Argentine Republic it is hoped are in the way of satisfactory adjustment . With these States , as with the Republics of Central and of South America , we continue to maintain the most friendly relations . It is with regret , however , I announce that the Government of Venezuela has made no further payments on account of the awards under the convention of the 25th of April , 1866 . That Republic is understood to be now almost , if not quite , tranquilized . It is hoped , therefore , that it will lose no time in providing for the unpaid balance of its debt to the United States , which , having originated in injuries to our citizens by Venezuelan authorities , and having been acknowledged , pursuant to a treaty , in the most solemn form known among nations , would seem to deserve a preference over debts of a different origin and contracted in a different manner . This subject is again recommended to the attention of Congress for such action as may be deemed proper . Our treaty relations with Japan remain unchanged . An imposing embassy from that interesting and progressive nation visited this country during the year that is passing , but , being unprovided with powers for the signing of a convention in this country , no conclusion in that direction was reached . It is hoped , however , that the interchange of opinions which took place during their stay in this country has led to a mutual appreciation of the interests which may be promoted when the revision of the existing treaty shall be undertaken . In this connection I renew my recommendation of one year ago , that To give importance to and to add to the efficiency of our diplomatic relations with Japan and China , and to further aid in retaining the good opinion of those peoples , and to secure to the United States its share of the commerce destined to flow between those nations and the balance of the commercial world , an appropriation be made to support at least four American youths in each of those countries , to serve as a part of the official family of our ministers there . Our representatives would not even then be placed upon an equality with the representatives of Great Britain and of some other powers . As now situated , our representatives in Japan and China have to depend for interpreters and translators upon natives of those countries , who know our language imperfectly , or procure for the occasion the services of employees in foreign business houses or the interpreters to other foreign ministers . I renew the recommendation made on a previous occasion , of the transfer to the Department of the Interior , to which they seem more appropriately to belong , of all the powers and duties in relation to the Territories with which the Department of State is now charged by law or by custom . Congress from the beginning of the Government has wisely made provision for the relief of distressed seamen in foreign countries . No similar provision , however , has hitherto been made for the relief of citizens in distress abroad other than seamen . It is understood to be customary with other governments to authorize consuls to extend such relief to their citizens or subjects in certain cases . A similar authority and an appropriation to carry it into effect are recommended in the case of citizens of the United States destitute or sick under such circumstances . It is well known that such citizens resort to foreign countries in great numbers . Though most of them are able to bear the expenses incident to locomotion , there are some who , through accident or otherwise , become penniless , and have no friends at home able to succor them . Persons in this situation must either perish , cast themselves upon the charity of foreigners , or be relieved at the private charge of our own officers , who usually , even with the most benevolent dispositions , have nothing to spare for such purposes . Should the authority and appropriation asked for be granted , care will be taken so to carry the beneficence of Congress into effect that it shall not be unnecessarily or unworthily bestowed . TREASURY . The moneys received and covered into the Treasury during the fiscal year ended June 30 , 1872 , were From customs 216 , 370 , 286 . 77From sales of public lands2 , 575 , 714 . 19From internal revenue130 , 642 , 177 . 72From tax on national bank circulation , etc6 , 523 , 396 . 39From Pacific railway companies749 , 861 . 87From customs fines , etc1 , 136 , 442 . 34From fees consular , patent , lands , etc2 , 284 , 095 . 92From miscellaneous412 , 254 . 71Total ordinary receipts 364 , 694 , 229 . 91 From premium on sales of coin9 , 412 , 637 . 65Total net receipts 374 , 106 , 867 . 65 Balance in Treasury June 30 , 1871 including 18 , 228 . 35 receivedfrom unavailable 109 , 935 , 705 . 59Total available cash484 , 042 , 573 . 15The net expenditures by warrants during the same period were For civil expenses 16 , 187 , 059 . 20For foreign intercourse1 , 839 , 369 . 14For Indians7 , 061 , 728 . 82For pensions28 , 533 , 402 . 76For military establishment , including fortifications , river and harborimprovements , and arsenals35 , 372 , 157 . 20For naval establishments , including vessels and machinery andimprovements at navy yards21 , 249 , 809 . 99For miscellaneous civil , including public buildings , light houses , and collecting the revenue42 , 958 , 329 . 08For interest on the public debt117 , 357 , 839 . 72Total , exclusive of principal and premium on the public debt270 , 559 , 695 . 91For premium on bonds purchased 6 , 958 , 266 . 76For redemption of the public debt99 , 960 , 253 . 54106 , 918 , 520 . 30Total net disbursements377 , 478 , 216 . 21Balance in Treasury June 30 , 1872106 , 564 , 356 . 94Total 484 , 042 , 573 . 15From the foregoing statement it appears that the net reduction of the principal of the debt during the fiscal year ending June 30 , 1872 , was 99 , 960 , 253 . 54 . The source of this reduction is as follows Net ordinary receipts during the year 364 , 694 , 229 . 91Net ordinary expenditures , including interest on the public debt270 , 559 , 695 . 91Leaving surplus revenue94 , 134 , 534 . 00Add amount received from premium on sales of gold , in excessof the premium paid on bonds purchased2 , 454 , 370 . 89Add the amount of the reduction of the cash balance at the close of the year , accompanied with same at commencement of the year3 , 371 , 348 . 65Total 99 , 960 , 253 . 54 This statement treats solely of the principal of the public debt . By the monthly statement of the public debt , which adds together the principal , interest due and unpaid , and interest accrued to date , not due , and deducts the cash in the Treasury as ascertained on the day of publication , the reduction was 100 , 544 , 491 . 28 . The source of this reduction is as follows Reduction in principal account 99 , 960 , 003 . 54Reduction in unpaid interest account3 , 330 , 952 . 96Reduction in cash on hand103 , 290 , 956 . 502 , 746 , 465 . 22100 , 544 , 491 . 28On the basis of the last table the statements show a reduction of the public debt from the 1st of March , 1869 , to the present time as follows From March 1 , 1869 , to March 1 , 1870 87 , 134 , 782 . 84From March 1 , 1870 , to March 1 , 1871117 , 619 , 630 . 25From March 1 , 1871 , to March 1 , 187294 , 895 , 348 . 94From March 1 , 1872 , to November 1 , 1872 eight months 64 , 047 , 237 . 84Total 363 , 696 , 999 . 87 With the great reduction of taxation by the acts of Congress at its last session , the expenditure of the Government in collecting the revenue will be much reduced for the next fiscal year . It is very doubtful , however , whether any further reduction of so vexatious a burden upon any people will be practicable for the present . At all events , as a measure of justice to the holders of the nation s certificates of indebtedness , I would recommend that no more legislation be had on this subject , unless it be to correct errors of omission or commission in the present laws , until sufficient time has elapsed to prove that it can be done and still leave sufficient revenue to meet current expenses of Government , pay interest on the public debt , and provide for the sinking fund established by law . The preservation of our national credit is of the highest importance next in importance to this comes a solemn duty to provide a national currency of fixed , unvarying value as compared with gold , and as soon as practicable , having due regard for the interests of the debtor class and the vicissitudes of trade and commerce , convertible into gold at par . WAR DEPARTMENThe report of the Secretary of War shows the expenditures of the War Department for the fiscal year ending June 30 , 1871 , to be 35 , 799 , 991 . 82 , and for the fiscal year ending June 30 , 1872 , to be 35 , 372 , 157 . 20 , showing a reduction in favor of the last fiscal year of 427 , 834 . 62 . The estimates for military appropriations for the next fiscal year , ending June 30 , 1874 , are 33 , 801 , 378 . 78 . The estimates of the Chief of Engineers are submitted separately for fortifications , river and harbor improvements , and for public buildings and grounds and the Washington Aqueduct . The affairs of the Freedmen s Bureau have all been transferred to the War Department , and regulations have been put into execution for the speedy payment of bounty , pay , etc . , due colored soldiers , properly coming under that Bureau . All war accounts , for money and property , prior to 1871 have been examined and transmitted to the Treasury for final settlement . During the fiscal year there has been paid for transportation on railroads 1 , 300 , 000 , of which 800 , 857 was over the Pacific railroads for transportation by water 626 , 373 . 52 , and by stage 48 , 975 . 84 for the purchase of transportation animals , wagons , hire of teamsters , etc . , 924 , 650 . 64 . About 370 , 000 have been collected from Southern railroads during the year , leaving about 4 , 000 , 000 still due . The Quartermaster has examined and transmitted to the accounting officers for settlement 367 , 172 . 72 of claims by loyal citizens for quartermaster stores taken during the war . Subsistence supplies to the amount of 89 , 048 . 12 have been issued to Indians . The annual average mean strength of the Army was 24 , 101 white and 2 , 494 colored soldiers . The total deaths for the year reported were 367 white and 54 colored . The distribution of the Medical and Surgical History of the War is yet to be ordered by Congress . There exists an absolute necessity for a medical corps of the full number established by act of Congress of July 28 , 1866 , there being now fifty nine vacancies , and the number of successful candidates rarely exceeds eight or ten in any one year . The river and harbor improvements have been carried on with energy and economy . Though many are only partially completed , the results have saved to commerce many times the amount expended . The increase of commerce , with greater depths of channels , greater security in navigation , and the saving of time , adds millions to the wealth of the country and increases the resources of the Government . The bridge across the Mississippi River at Rock Island has been completed , and the proper site has been determined upon for the bridge at La Crosse . The able and exhaustive report made by the commission appointed to investigate the Sutro Tunnel has been transmitted to Congress . The observations and reports of the Signal Office have been continued . Stations have been maintained at each of the principal lake , seaport , and river cities . Ten additional stations have been established in the United States , and arrangements have been made for an exchange of reports with Canada , and a similar exchange of observations is contemplated with the West India Islands . The favorable attention of Congress is invited to the following recommendations of the Secretary of War A discontinuance of the appointment of extra lieutenants to serve as adjutants and quartermasters the adoption of a code providing specific penalties for well defined offenses , so that the inequality of sentences adjudged by courts martial may be adjusted the consolidation of accounts under which expenditures are made , as a measure of economy a reappropriation of the money for the construction of a depot at San Antonio , the title to the site being now perfected a special act placing the cemetery at the City of Mexico on the same basis as other national cemeteries authority to purchase sites for military posts in Texas the appointment of commissary sergeants from noncommissioned officers , as a measure for securing the better care and protection of supplies an appropriation for the publication of the catalogue and tables of the anatomical section of the Army Medical Museum a reappropriation of the amount for the manufacture of breech loading arms , should the selection be so delayed by the board of officers as to leave the former appropriation unexpended at the close of the fiscal year the sale of such arsenals east of the Mississippi as can be spared , and the proceeds applied to the establishment of one large arsenal of construction and repair upon the Atlantic Coast and the purchase of a suitable site for a proving and experimental ground for heavy ordnance the abrogation of laws which deprive inventors in the United States service from deriving any benefit from their inventions the repeal of the law prohibiting promotions in the staff corps a continuance of the work upon coast defenses the repeal of the seventh section of the act of July 13 , 1866 , taking from engineer soldiers the per diem granted to other troops a limitation of time for presentation of old war claims for subsistence supplies under act of July 4 , 1864 and a modification in the mode of the selection of cadets for the Military Academy , in order to enhance the usefulness of the Academy , which is impaired by reason of the large amount of time necessarily expended in giving new cadets a thorough knowledge of the more elementary branches of learning , which they should acquire before entering the Academy . Also an appropriation for philosophical apparatus and an increase in the numbers and pay of the Military Academy band . The attention of Congress will be called during its present session to various enterprises for the more certain and cheaper transportation of the constantly increasing surplus of Western and Southern products to the Atlantic Seaboard . The subject is one that will force itself upon the legislative branch of the Government sooner or later , and I suggest , therefore , that immediate steps be taken to gain all available information to insure equable and just legislation . One route to connect the Mississippi Valley with the Atlantic , at Charleston , C . , and Savannah , Ga . , by water , by the way of the Ohio and Tennessee rivers , and canals and slack water navigation to the Savannah and Ocmulgee rivers , has been surveyed , and report made by an accomplished engineer officer of the Army . Second and third new routes will be proposed for the consideration of Congress , namely , by an extension of the Kanawha and James River Canal to the Ohio , and by extension of the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal . I am not prepared to recommend Government aid to these or other enterprises until it is clearly shown that they are not only of national interest , but that when completed they will be of a value commensurate with their cost . That production increases more rapidly than the means of transportation in our country has been demonstrated by past experience . That the unprecedented growth in population and products of the whole country will require additional facilities and cheaper ones for the more bulky articles of commerce to reach tide water and a market will be demanded in the near future is equally demonstrable . I would therefore suggest either a committee or a commission to be authorized to consider this whole question , and to report to Congress at some future day for its better guidance in legislating on this important subject . The railroads of the country have been rapidly extended during the last few years to meet the growing demands of producers , and reflect much credit upon the capitalists and managers engaged in their construction . In addition to these , a project to facilitate commerce by the building of a ship canal around Niagara Falls , on the United States side , which has been agitated for many years , will no doubt be called to your attention at this session . Looking to the great future growth of the country and the increasing demands of commerce , it might be well while on this subject not only to have examined and reported upon the various practicable routes for connecting the Mississippi with tide water on the Atlantic , but the feasibility of an almost continuous landlocked navigation from Maine to the Gulf of Mexico . Such a route along our coast would be of great value at all times , and of inestimable value in ease of a foreign war . Nature has provided the greater part of this route , and the obstacles to overcome are easily within the skill of the engineer . I have not alluded to this subject with the view of having any further expenditure of public money at this time than may be necessary to procure and place all the necessary information before Congress in an authentic form , to enable it hereafter , if deemed practicable and worthy , to legislate on the subject without delay . NAVY DEPARTMENThe report of the Secretary of the Navy herewith accompanying explains fully the condition of that branch of the public service , its wants and deficiencies , expenses incurred during the past year , and appropriations for the same . It also gives a complete history of the services of the Navy for the past year in addition to its regular service . It is evident that unless early steps are taken to preserve our Navy in a very few years the United States will be the weakest nation upon the ocean , of all great powers . With an energetic , progressive , business people like ours , penetrating and forming business relations with every part of the known world , a navy strong enough to command the respect of our flag abroad is necessary for the full protection of their rights . I recommend careful consideration by Congress of the recommendations made by the Secretary of the Navy . POST OFFICE DEPARTMENThe accompanying report of the Postmaster General furnishes a full and satisfactory exhibit of the operations of the Post Office Department during the year . The ordinary revenues of the Department for the fiscal year ending June 30 , 1872 , amounted to 21 , 915 , 426 . 37 , and the expenditures to 26 , 658 , 192 . 31 . Compared with the previous fiscal year the increase of revenue was 1 , 878 , 330 . 95 , or 9 . 37 per cent , and the increase of expenditures 2 , 268 , 088 . 23 , or 9 . 29 per cent . Adding to the ordinary revenues the annual appropriation of 700 , 000 for free matter and the amounts paid to the subsidized mail steamship lines from special appropriations , the deficiency paid out of the General Treasury was 3 , 317 , 765 . 94 , an excess of 389 , 707 . 28 over the deficiency for the year 1871 . Other interesting statistical information relating to our rapidly extending postal service is furnished in this report . The total length of railroad mail routes on the 30th of June , 1872 , was 57 , 911 miles , 8 , 077 additional miles of such service having been put into operation during the year . Eight new lines of railway post offices have been established , with an aggregate length of 2 , 909 miles . The number of letters exchanged in the mails with foreign countries was 24 , 362 , 500 , an increase of 4 , 066 , 502 , or 20 per cent , over the number in 1871 and the postage thereon amounted to 1 , 871 , 257 . 25 . The total weight of the mails exchanged with European countries exceeded 820 tons . The cost of the United States transatlantic mail steamship service was 220 , 301 . 70 . The total cost of the United States ocean steamship service , including the amounts paid to the subsidized lines of mail steamers , was 1 , 027 , 020 . 97 . The following are the only steamship lines now receiving subsidies for mail service under special acts of Congress The Pacific Mail Steamship Company receive 500 , 000 per annum for conveying a monthly mail between San Francisco , Japan , and China , which will be increased to 1 , 000 , 000 per annum for a semimonthly mail on and after October 1 , 1873 the United States and Brazil Mail Steamship Company receive 150 , 000 per annum for conveying a monthly mail between New York and Rio de Janeiro , Brazil and the California , Oregon and Mexican Steamship Company receive 75 , 000 per annum for conveying a monthly mail between San Francisco and Honolulu Hawaiian Islands , making the total amount of mail steamship subsidies at present 725 , 000 per annum . Our postal communications with all parts of the civilized world have been placed upon a most advantageous footing by the improved postal conventions and arrangements recently concluded with the leading commercial countries of Europe and America , and the gratifying statement is made that with the conclusion of a satisfactory convention with France , the details of which have been definitely agreed to by the head of the French postal department , subject to the approval of the minister of finance , little remains to be accomplished by treaty for some time to come with respect either to reduction of rates or improved facilities of postal intercourse . Your favorable consideration is respectfully invited to the recommendations made by the Postmaster General for an increase of service from monthly to semimonthly trips on the mail steamship route to Brazil for a subsidy in aid of the establishment of an American line of mail steamers between San Francisco , New Zealand , and Australia for the establishment of post office savings banks , and for the increase of the salaries of the heads of bureaus . I have heretofore recommended the abolition of the franking privilege , and see no reason now for changing my views on that subject . It not having been favorably regarded by Congress , however , I now suggest a modification of that privilege to correct its glaring and costly abuses . I would recommend also the appointment of a committee or commission to take into consideration the best method equitable to private corporations who have invested their time and capital in the establishment of telegraph lines of acquiring the title to all telegraph lines now in operation , and of connecting this service with the postal service of the nation . It is not probable that this subject could receive the proper consideration during the limits of a short session of Congress , but it may be initiated , so that future action may be fair to the Government and to private parties concerned . There are but three lines of ocean steamers namely , the Pacific Mail Steamship Company , between San Francisco , China , and Japan , with provision made for semimonthly service after October 1 , 1873 the United States and Brazil line , monthly and the California , New Zealand , and Australian line , monthly plying between the United States and foreign ports , and owned and operated under our flag . I earnestly recommend that such liberal contracts for carrying the mails be authorized with these lines as will insure their continuance . If the expediency of extending the aid of Government to lines of steamers which hitherto have not received it should be deemed worthy of the consideration of Congress , political and commercial objects make it advisable to bestow such aid on a line under our flag between Panama and the western South American ports . By this means much trade now diverted to other countries might be brought to us , to the mutual advantage of this country and those lying in that quarter of the continent of America . The report of the Secretary of the Treasury will show an alarming falling off in our carrying trade for the last ten or twelve years , and even for the past year . I do not believe that public treasure can be better expended in the interest of the whole people than in trying to recover this trade . An expenditure of 5 , 000 , 000 per annum for the next five years , if it would restore to us our proportion of the carrying trade of the world , would be profitably expended . The price of labor in Europe has so much enhanced within the last few years that the cost of building and operating ocean steamers in the United States is not so much greater than in Europe and I believe the time has arrived for Congress to take this subject into serious consideration . DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICDetailed statements of the disbursements through the Department of Justice will be furnished by the report of the Attorney General , and though these have been somewhat increased by the recent acts of Congress to enforce the rights of citizens of the United States to vote in the several States of the Union , and to enforce the provisions of the fourteenth amendment to the Constitution of the United States , and the amendments thereto , I can not question the necessity and salutary effect of those enactments . Reckless and lawless men , I regret to say , have associated themselves together in some localities to deprive other citizens of those rights guaranteed to them by the Constitution of the United States , and to that end have committed deeds of blood and violence but the prosecution and punishment of many of these persons have tended greatly to the repression of such disorders . I do not doubt that a great majority of the people in all parts of the country favor the full enjoyment by all classes of persons of those rights to which they are entitled under the Constitution and laws , and I invoke the aid and influence of all good citizens to prevent organizations whose objects are by unlawful means to interfere with those rights . I look with confidence to the time , not far distant , when the obvious advantages of good order and peace will induce an abandonment of all combinations prohibited by the acts referred to , and when it will be unnecessary to carry on prosecutions or inflict punishment to protect citizens from the lawless doings of such combinations . Applications have been made to me to pardon persons convicted of a violation of said acts , upon the ground that clemency in such cases would tend to tranquilize the public mind , and to test the virtue of that policy I am disposed , as far as my sense of justice will permit , to give to these applications a favorable consideration but any action thereon is not to be construed as indicating any change in my determination to enforce with vigor such acts so long as the conspiracies and combinations therein named disturb the peace of the country . It is much to be regretted , and is regretted by no one more than myself , that a necessity has ever existed to execute the enforcement act . No one can desire more than I that the necessity of applying it may never again be demanded . INTERIOR DEPARTMENThe Secretary of the Interior reports satisfactory improvement and progress in each of the several bureaus under the control of the Interior Department . They are all in excellent condition . The work which in some of them for some years has been in arrears has been brought down to a recent date , and in all the current business is being promptly dispatched . INDIANThe policy which was adopted at the beginning of this Administration with regard to the management of the Indians has been as successful as its most ardent friends anticipated within so short a time . It has reduced the expense of their management decreased their forays upon the white settlements tended to give the largest opportunity for the extension of the great railways through the public domain and the pushing of settlements into more remote districts of the country , and at the same time improved the condition of the Indians . The policy will be maintained without any change excepting such as further experience may show to be necessary to render it more efficient . The subject of converting the so called Indian Territory south of Kansas into a home for the Indian , and erecting therein a Territorial form of government , is one of great importance as a complement of the existing Indian policy . The question of removal to that Territory has within the past year been presented to many of the tribes resident upon other and less desirable portions of the public domain , and has generally been received by them with favor . As a preliminary step to the organization of such a Territory , it will be necessary to confine the Indians now resident therein to farms of proper size , which should be secured to them in fee the residue to be used for the settlement of other friendly Indians . Efforts will be made in the immediate future to induce the removal of as many peaceably disposed Indians to the Indian Territory as can be settled properly without disturbing the harmony of those already there . There is no other location now available where a people who are endeavoring to acquire a knowledge of pastoral and agricultural pursuits can be as well accommodated as upon the unoccupied lands in the Indian Territory . A Territorial government should , however , protect the Indians from the inroads of whites for a term of years , until they become sufficiently advanced in the arts and civilization to guard their own rights , and from the disposal of the lands held by them for the same period . LANDS . During the last fiscal year there were disposed of out of the public lands 11 , 864 , 975 acres , a quantity greater by 1 , 099 , 270 acres than was disposed of the previous year . Of this amount 1 , 370 , 320 acres were sold for cash , 389 , 460 acres located with military warrants , 4 , 671 , 332 acres taken for homesteads , 693 , 613 acres located with college scrip , 3 , 554 , 887 acres granted to railroads , 465 , 347 acres granted to wagon roads , 714 , 255 acres given to States as swamp land , 5 , 760 acres located by Indian scrip . The cash receipts from all sources in the Land Office amounted to 3 , 218 , 100 . During the same period 22 , 016 , 608 acres of the public lands were surveyed , which , added to the quantity before surveyed , amounts to 583 , 364 , 780 acres , leaving 1 , 257 , 633 , 628 acres of the public lands still unsurveyed . The reports from the subordinates of the Land Office contain interesting information in regard to their respective districts . They uniformly mention the fruitfulness of the soil during the past season and the increased yields of all kinds of produce . Even in those States and Territories where mining is the principal business agricultural products have exceeded the local demand , and liberal shipments have been made to distant points . PATENTS . During the year ending September 30 , 1872 , there were issued from the Patent Office 13 , 626 patents , 233 extensions , and 556 certificates and registries of trade marks . During the same time 19 , 587 applications for patents , including reissues and designs , have been received and 3 , 100 caveats filed . The fees received during the same period amounted to 700 , 954 . 86 , and the total expenditures to 623 , 553 . 90 , making the net receipts over the expenditures 77 , 400 . 96 . Since 1836 200 , 000 applications for patents have been filed and about 133 , 000 patents issued . The office is being conducted under the same laws and general organization as were adopted at its original inauguration , when only from 100 to 500 applications were made per annum . The Commissioner shows that the office has outgrown the original plan , and that a new organization has become necessary . This subject was presented to Congress in a special communication in February last , with my approval and the approval of the Secretary of the Interior , and the suggestions contained in said communication were embraced in the bill that was reported to the House by the Committee on Patents at the last session . The subject of the reorganization of the Patent Office , as contemplated by the bill referred to , is one of such importance to the industrial interests of the country that I commend it to the attention of Congress . The Commissioner also treats the subject of the separation of the Patent Office from the Department of the Interior . This subject is also embraced in the bill heretofore referred to . The Commissioner complains of the want of room for the model gallery and for the working force and necessary files of the office . It is impossible to transact the business of the office properly without more room in which to arrange files and drawings , that must be consulted hourly in the transaction of business . The whole of the Patent Office building will soon be needed , if it is not already , for the accommodation of the business of the Patent Office . PENSIONS . The amount paid for pensions in the last fiscal year was 30 , 169 , 340 , an amount larger by 3 , 708 , 434 than was paid during the preceding year . Of this amount 2 , 313 , 409 were paid under the act of Congress of February 17 , 1871 , to survivors of the War of 1812 . The annual increase of pensions by the legislation of Congress has more than kept pace with the natural yearly losses from the rolls . The act of Congress of June 8 , 1872 , has added an estimated amount of 750 , 000 per annum to the rolls , without increasing the number of pensioners . We can not , therefore , look for any substantial decrease in the expenditures of this Department for some time to come , or so long as Congress continues to so change the rates of pension . The whole number of soldiers enlisted in the War of the Rebellion was 2 , 688 , 523 . The total number of claims for invalid pensions is 176 , 000 , being but 6 per cent of the whole number of enlisted men . The total number of claims on hand at the beginning of the year was 91 , 689 the number received during the year was 26 , 574 the number disposed of was 39 , 178 , making a net gain of 12 , 604 . The number of claims now on file is 79 , 085 . On the 30th of June , 1872 , there were on the rolls the names of 95 , 405 invalid military pensioners , 113 , 518 widows , orphans , and dependent relatives , making an aggregate of 208 , 923 army pensioners . At the same time there were on the rolls the names of 1 , 449 navy pensioners and 1 , 730 widows , orphans , and dependent relatives , making the whole number of naval pensioners 3 , 179 . There have been received since the passage of the act to provide pensions for the survivors of the War of 1812 36 , 551 applications , prior to June 30 , 1872 . Of these there were allowed during the last fiscal year 20 , 126 claims 4 , 845 were rejected during the year , leaving 11 , 580 claims pending at that date . The number of pensions of all classes granted during the last fiscal year was 33 , 838 . During that period there were dropped from the rolls , for various causes , 9 , 104 names , leaving a grand total of 232 , 229 pensioners on the rolls on the 30th of June , 1872 . It is thought that the claims for pensions on account of the War of 1812 will all be disposed of by the 1st of May , 1873 . It is estimated that 30 , 480 , 000 will be required for the pension service during the next fiscal year . THE CENSUThe Ninth Census is about completed . Its early completion is a subject of congratulation , inasmuch as the use to be made of the statistics therein contained depends very greatly on the promptitude of publication . The Secretary of the Interior recommends that a census be taken in 1875 , which recommendation should receive the early attention of Congress . The interval at present established between the Federal census is so long that the information obtained at the decennial period as to the material condition , wants , and resources of the nation is of little practical value after the expiration of the first half of that period . It would probably obviate the constitutional provision regarding the decennial census if a census taken in 1875 should be divested of all political character and no reapportionment of Congressional representation be made under it . Such a census , coming , as it would , in the last year of the first century of our national existence , would furnish a noble monument of the progress of the United States during that century . EDUCATION . The rapidly increasing interest in education is a most encouraging feature in the current history of the country , and it is no doubt true that this is due in a great measure to the efforts of the Bureau of Education . That office is continually receiving evidences , which abundantly prove its efficiency , from the various institutions of learning and educators of all kinds throughout the country . The report of the Commissioner contains a vast amount of educational details of great interest . The bill now pending before Congress , providing for the appropriation of the net proceeds of the sales of public lands for educational purposes , to aid the States in the general education of their rising generation , is a measure of such great importance to our real progress and is so unanimously approved by the leading friends of education that I commend it to the favorable attention of Congress . TERRITORIES . Affairs in the Territories are generally satisfactory . The energy and business capacity of the pioneers who are settling up the vast domains not yet incorporated into States are keeping pace in internal improvements and civil government with the older communities . In but one of them Utah is the condition of affairs unsatisfactory , except so far as the quiet of the citizen may be disturbed by real or imaginary danger of Indian hostilities . It has seemed to be the policy of the legislature of Utah to evade all responsibility to the Government of the United States , and even to hold a position in hostility to it . I recommend a careful revision of the present laws of the Territory by Congress , and the enactment of such a law the one proposed in Congress at its last session , for instance , or something similar to it as will secure peace , the equality of all citizens before the law , and the ultimate extinguishment of polygamy , Since the establishment of a Territorial government for the District of Columbia the improvement of the condition of the city of Washington and surroundings and the increased prosperity of the citizens are observable to the most casual visitor . The nation , being a large owner of property in the city , should bear , with the citizens of the District , its just share of the expense of these improvements . I recommend , therefore , an appropriation to reimburse the citizens for the work done by them along and in front of public grounds during the past year , and liberal appropriations in order that the improvements and embellishments of the public buildings and grounds may keep pace with the improvements made by the Territorial authorities . AGRICULTURE . The report of the Commissioner of Agriculture gives a very full and interesting account of the several divisions of that Department the horticultural , agricultural , statistical , entomological , and chemical and the benefits conferred by each upon the agricultural interests of the country . The whole report is a complete history , in detail , of the workings of that Department in all its branches , showing the manner in which the farmer , merchant , and miner is informed , and the extent to which he is aided in his pursuits . The Commissioner makes one recommendation that measures be taken by Congress to protect and induce the planting of forests and suggests that no part of the public lands should be disposed of without the condition that one tenth of it should be reserved in timber where it exists , and where it does not exist inducements should be offered for planting it . CENTENNIAL CELEBRATIOIn accordance with the terms of the act of Congress approved March 3 , 1871 , providing for the celebration of the one hundredth anniversary of American independence , a commission has been organized , consisting of two members from each of the States and Territories . This commission has held two sessions , and has made satisfactory progress in the organization and in the initiatory steps necessary for carrying out the provisions of the act , and for executing also the provisions of the act of June 1 , 1872 , creating a centennial board of finance . A preliminary report of progress has been received from the president of the commission , and is herewith transmitted . It will be the duty of the commission at your coming session to transmit a full report of the progress made , and to lay before you the details relating to the exhibition of American and foreign arts , products , and manufactures , which by the terms of the act is to be held under the auspices of the Government of the United States in the city of Philadelphia in the year 1876 . This celebration will be looked forward to by American citizens with great interest , as marking a century of greater progress and prosperity than is recorded in the history of any other nation , and as serving a further good purpose in bringing together on our soil peoples of all the commercial nations of the earth in a manner calculated to insure international good feeling . CIVIL SERVICAn earnest desire has been felt to correct abuses which have grown up in the civil service of the country through the defective method of making appointments to office . Heretofore Federal offices have been regarded too much as the reward of political services . Under authority of Congress rules have been established to regulate the tenure of office and the mode of appointments . It can not be expected that any system of rules can be entirely effective and prove a perfect remedy for the existing evils until they have been thoroughly tested by actual practice and amended according to the requirements of the service . During my term of office it shall be my earnest endeavor to so apply the rules as to secure the greatest possible reform in the civil service of the Government , but it will require the direct action of Congress to render the enforcement of the system binding upon my successors and I hope that the experience of the past year , together with appropriate legislation by Congress , may reach a satisfactory solution of this question and secure to the public service for all time a practical method of obtaining faithful and efficient officers and employees .<speech_sep>To the Senate and House of Representatives Since the convening of Congress one year ago the nation has undergone a prostration in business and industries such as has not been witnessed with us for many years . Speculation as to the causes for this prostration might be indulged in without profit , because as many theories would be advanced as there would be independent writers those who expressed their own views without borrowing upon the subject . Without indulging in theories as to the cause of this prostration , therefore , I will call your attention only to the fact , and to some plain questions as to which it would seem there should be no disagreement . During this prostration two essential elements of prosperity have been most abundant labor and capital . Both have been largely unemployed . Where security has been undoubted , capital has been attainable at very moderate rates . Where labor has been wanted , it has been found in abundance , at cheap rates compared with what of necessaries and comforts of life could be purchased with the wages demanded . Two great elements of prosperity , therefore , have not been denied us . A third might be added Our soil and climate are unequaled , within the limits of any contiguous territory under one nationality , for its variety of products to feed and clothe a people and in the amount of surplus to spare to feed less favored peoples . Therefore , with these facts in view , it seems to me that wise statesmanship , at this session of Congress , would dictate legislation ignoring the past directing in proper channels these great elements of prosperity to any people . Debt , debt abroad , is the only element that can , with always a sound currency , enter into our affairs to cause any continued depression in the industries and prosperity of our people . A great conflict for national existence made necessary , for temporary purposes , the raising of large sums of money from whatever source attainable . It made it necessary , in the wisdom of Congress and I do not doubt their wisdom in the premises , regarding the necessity of the times to devise a system of national currency which it proved to be impossible to keep on a par with the recognized currency of the civilized world . This begot a spirit of speculation involving an extravagance and luxury not required for the happiness or prosperity of a people , and involving , both directly and indirectly , foreign indebtedness . The currency , being of fluctuating value , and therefore unsafe to hold for legitimate transactions requiring money , became a subject of speculation within itself . These two causes , however , have involved us in a foreign indebtedness , contracted in good faith by borrower and lender , which should be paid in coin , and according to the bond agreed upon when the debt was contracted gold or its equivalent . The good faith of the Government can not be violated toward creditors without national disgrace . But our commerce should be encouraged American shipbuilding and carrying capacity increased foreign markets sought for products of the soil and manufactories , to the end that we may be able to pay these debts . Where a new market can be created for the sale of our products , either of the soil , the mine , or the manufactory , a new means is discovered of utilizing our idle capital and labor to the advantage of the whole people . But , in my judgment , the first step toward accomplishing this object is to secure a currency of fixed , stable value a currency good wherever civilization reigns one which , if it becomes superabundant with one people , will find a market with some other a currency which has as its basis the labor necessary to produce it , which will give to it its value . Gold and silver are now the recognized medium of exchange the civilized world over , and to this we should return with the least practicable delay . In view of the pledges of the American Congress when our present legal tender system was adopted , and debt contracted , there should be no delay certainly no unnecessary delay in fixing by legislation a method by which we will return to specie . To the accomplishment of this end I invite your special attention . I believe firmly that there can be no prosperous and permanent revival of business and industries until a policy is adopted with legislation to carry it out looking to a return to a specie basis . It is easy to conceive that the debtor and speculative classes may think it of value to them to make so called money abundant until they can throw a portion of their burdens upon others . But even these , I believe , would be disappointed in the result if a course should be pursued which will keep in doubt the value of the legal tender medium of exchange . A revival of productive industry is needed by all classes by none more than the holders of property , of whatever sort , with debts to liquidate from realization upon its sale . But admitting that these two classes of citizens are to be benefited by expansion , would it be honest to give it Would not the general loss be too great to justify such relief Would it not be just as honest and prudent to authorize each debtor to issue his own legal tenders to the extent of his liabilities Than to do this , would it not be safer , for fear of overissues by unscrupulous creditors , to say that all debt obligations are obliterated in the United States , and now we commence anew , each possessing all he has at the time free from incumbrance These propositions are too absurd to be entertained for a moment by thinking or honest people . Yet every delay in preparation for final resumption partakes of this dishonesty , and is only less in degree as the hope is held out that a convenient season will at last arrive for the good work of redeeming our pledges to commence . It will never come , in my opinion , except by positive action by Congress , or by national disasters which will destroy , for a time at least , the credit of the individual and the State at large . A sound currency might be reached by total bankruptcy and discredit of the integrity of the nation and of individuals . I believe it is in the power of Congress at this session to devise such legislation as will renew confidence , revive all the industries , start us on a career of prosperity to last for many years and to save the credit of the nation and of the people . Steps toward the return to a specie basis are the great requisites to this devoutly to be sought for end . There are others which I may touch upon hereafter . A nation dealing in a currency below that of specie in value labors under two great disadvantages First , having no use for the world s acknowledged medium of exchange , gold and silver , these are driven out of the country because there is no need for their use second , the medium of exchange in use being of a fluctuating value for , after all , it is only worth just what it will purchase of gold and silver , metals having an intrinsic value just in proportion to the honest labor it takes to produce them a larger margin must be allowed for profit by the manufacturer and producer . It is months from the date of production to the date of realization . Interest upon capital must be charged , and risk of fluctuation in the value of that which is to be received in payment added . Hence high prices , acting as a protection to the foreign producer , who receives nothing in exchange for the products of his skill and labor except a currency good , at a stable value , the world over It seems to me that nothing is clearer than that the greater part of the burden of existing prostration , for the want of a sound financial system , falls upon the working man , who must after all produce the wealth , and the salaried man , who superintends and conducts business . The burden falls upon them in two ways by the deprivation of employment and by the decreased purchasing power of their salaries . It is the duty of Congress to devise the method of correcting the evils which are acknowledged to exist , and not mine . But I will venture to suggest two or three things which seem to me as absolutely necessary to a return to specie payments , the first great requisite in a return to prosperity . The legal tender clause to the law authorizing the issue of currency by the National Government should be repealed , to take effect as to all contracts entered into after a day fixed in the repealing act not to apply , however , to payments of salaries by Government , or for other expenditures now provided by law to be paid in currency , in the interval pending between repeal and final resumption . Provision should be made by which the Secretary of the Treasury can obtain gold as it may become necessary from time to time from the date when specie redemption commences . To this might and should be added a revenue sufficiently in excess of expenses to insure an accumulation of gold in the Treasury to sustain permanent redemption . I commend this subject to your careful consideration , believing that a favorable solution is attainable , and if reached by this Congress that the present and future generations will ever gratefully remember it as their deliverer from a thraldom of evil and disgrace . With resumption , free banking may be authorized with safety , giving the same full protection to bill holders which they have under existing laws . Indeed , I would regard free banking as essential . It would give proper elasticity to the currency . As more currency should be required for the transaction of legitimate business , new banks would be started , and in turn banks would wind up their business when it was found that there was a superabundance of currency . The experience and judgment of the people can best decide just how much currency is required for the transaction of the business of the country . It is unsafe to leave the settlement of this question to Congress , the Secretary of the Treasury , or the Executive . Congress should make the regulation under which banks may exist , but should not make banking a monopoly by limiting the amount of redeemable paper currency that shall be authorized . Such importance do I attach to this subject , and so earnestly do I commend it to your attention , that I give it prominence by introducing it at the beginning of this message . During the past year nothing has occurred to disturb the general friendly and cordial relations of the United States with other powers . The correspondence submitted herewith between this Government and its diplomatic representatives , as also with the representatives of other countries , shows a satisfactory condition of all questions between the United States and the most of those countries , and with few exceptions , to which reference is hereafter made , the absence of any points of difference to be adjusted . The notice directed by the resolution of Congress of June 17 , 1874 , to be given to terminate the convention of July 17 , 1858 , between the United States and Belgium has been given , and the treaty will accordingly terminate on the 1st day of July , 1875 . This convention secured to certain Belgian vessels entering the ports of the United States exceptional privileges which are not accorded to our own vessels . Other features of the convention have proved satisfactory , and have tended to the cultivation of mutually beneficial commercial intercourse and friendly relations between the two countries . I hope that negotiations which have been invited will result in the celebration of another treaty which may tend to the interests of both countries . Our relations with China continue to be friendly . During the past year the fear of hostilities between China and Japan , growing out of the landing of an armed force upon the island of Formosa by the latter , has occasioned uneasiness . It is earnestly hoped , however , that the difficulties arising from this cause will be adjusted , and that the advance of civilization in these Empires may not be retarded by a state of war . In consequence of the part taken by certain citizens of the United States in this expedition , our representatives in those countries have been instructed to impress upon the Governments of China and Japan the firm intention of this country to maintain strict neutrality in the event of hostilities , and to carefully prevent any infraction of law on the part of our citizens . In connection with this subject I call the attention of Congress to a generally conceded fact that the great proportion of the Chinese immigrants who come to our shores do not come voluntarily , to make their homes with us and their labor productive of general prosperity , but come under contracts with headmen , who own them almost absolutely . In a worse form does this apply to Chinese women . Hardly a perceptible percentage of them perform any honorable labor , but they are brought for shameful purposes , to the disgrace of the communities where settled and to the great demoralization of the youth of those localities . If this evil practice can be legislated against , it will be my pleasure as well as duty to enforce any regulation to secure so desirable an end . It is hoped that negotiations between the Government of Japan and the treaty powers , looking to the further opening of the Empire and to the removal of various restrictions upon trade and travel , may soon produce the results desired , which can not fail to inure to the benefit of all the parties . Having on previous occasions submitted to the consideration of Congress the propriety of the release of the Japanese Government from the further payment of the indemnity under the convention of October 22 , 1864 , and as no action had been taken thereon , it became my duty to regard the obligations of the convention as in force and as the other powers interested had received their portion of the indemnity in full , the minister of the United States in Japan has , in behalf of this Government , received the remainder of the amount due to the United States under the convention of Simonosaki . I submit the propriety of applying the income of a part , if not of the whole , of this fund to the education in the Japanese language of a number of young men to be under obligations to serve the Government for a specified time as interpreters at the legation and the consulates in Japan . A limited number of Japanese youths might at the same time be educated in our own vernacular , and mutual benefits would result to both Governments . The importance of having our own citizens , competent and familiar with the language of Japan , to act as interpreters and in other capacities connected with the legation and the consulates in that country can not readily be overestimated . The amount awarded to the Government of Great Britain by the mixed commission organized under the provisions of the treaty of Washington in settlement of the claims of British subjects arising from acts committed between April 13 , 1861 , and April 9 , 1865 , became payable , under the terms of the treaty , within the past year , and was paid upon the 21st day of September , 1874 . In this connection I renew my recommendation , made at the opening of the last session of Congress , that a special court be created to hear and determine all claims of aliens against the United States arising from acts committed against their persons or property during the insurrection . It appears equitable that opportunity should be offered to citizens of other states to present their claims , as well as to those British subjects whose claims were not admissible under the late commission , to the early decision of some competent tribunal . To this end I recommend the necessary legislation to organize a court to dispose of all claims of aliens of the nature referred to in an equitable and satisfactory manner , and to relieve Congress and the Departments from the consideration of these questions . The legislation necessary to extend to the colony of Newfoundland certain articles of the treaty of Washington of the 8th day of May , 1871 , having been had , a protocol to that effect was signed in behalf of the United States and of Great Britain on the 28th day of May last , and was duly proclaimed on the following day . A copy of the proclamation is submitted herewith . A copy of the report of the commissioner appointed under the act of March 19 , 1872 , for surveying and marking the boundary between the United States and the British possessions from the Lake of the Woods to the summit of the Rocky Mountains is herewith transmitted . I am happy to announce that the field work of the commission has been completed , and the entire line from the northwest corner of the Lake of the Woods to the summit of the Rocky Mountains has been run and marked upon the surface of the earth . It is believed that the amount remaining unexpended of the appropriation made at the last session of Congress will be sufficient to complete the office work . I recommend that the authority of Congress be given to the use of the unexpended balance of the appropriation in the completion of the work of the commission in making its report and preparing the necessary maps . The court known as the Court of Commissioners of Alabama Claims , created by an act of Congress of the last session , has organized and commenced its work , and it is to be hoped that the claims admissible under the provisions of the act may be speedily ascertained and paid . It has been deemed advisable to exercise the discretion conferred upon the Executive at the last session by accepting the conditions required by the Government of Turkey for the privilege of allowing citizens of the United States to hold real estate in the former country , and by assenting to a certain change in the jurisdiction of courts in the latter . A copy of the proclamation upon these subjects is herewith communicated . There has been no material change in our relations with the independent States of this hemisphere which were formerly under the dominion of Spain . Marauding on the frontiers between Mexico and Texas still frequently takes place , despite the vigilance of the civil and military authorities in that quarter . The difficulty of checking such trespasses along the course of a river of such length as the Rio Grande , and so often fordable , is obvious . It is hoped that the efforts of this Government will be seconded by those of Mexico to the effectual suppression of these acts of wrong . From a report upon the condition of the business before the American and Mexican Joint Claims Commission , made by the agent on the part of the United States , and dated October 28 , 1874 , it appears that of the 1 , 017 claims filed on the part of citizens of the United States , 483 had been finally decided and 75 were in the hands of the umpire , leaving 462 to be disposed of and of the 998 claims filed against the United States , 726 had been finally decided , I was before the umpire , and 271 remained to be disposed of . Since the date of such report other claims have been disposed of , reducing somewhat the number still pending and others have been passed upon by the arbitrators . It has become apparent , in view of these figures and of the fact that the work devolving on the umpire is particularly laborious , that the commission will be unable to dispose of the entire number of claims pending prior to the 1st day of February , 1875 the date fixed for its expiration . Negotiations are pending looking to the securing of the results of the decisions which have been reached and to a further extension of the commission for a limited time , which it is confidently hoped will suffice to bring all the business now before it to a final close . The strife in the Argentine Republic is to be deplored , both on account of the parties thereto and from the probable effects on the interests of those engaged in the trade to that quarter , of whom the United States are among the principal . As yet , so far as I am aware , there has been no violation of our neutrality rights , which , as well as our duties in that respect , it shall be my endeavor to maintain and observe . It is with regret I announce that no further payment has been received from the Government of Venezuela on account of awards in favor of citizens of the United States . Hopes have been entertained that if that Republic could escape both foreign and civil war for a few years its great natural resources would enable it to honor its obligations . Though it is now understood to be at peace with other countries , a serious insurrection is reported to be in progress in an important region of that Republic . This may be taken advantage of as another reason to delay the payment of the dues of our citizens . The deplorable strife in Cuba continues without any marked change in the relative advantages of the contending forces . The insurrection continues , but Spain has gained no superiority . Six years of strife give to the insurrection a significance which can not be denied . Its duration and the tenacity of its adherence , together with the absence of manifested power of suppression on the part of Spain , can not be controverted , and may make some positive steps on the part of other powers a matter of self necessity . I had confidently hoped at this time to be able to announce the arrangement of some of the important questions between this Government and that of Spain , but the negotiations have been protracted . The unhappy intestine dissensions of Spain command our profound sympathy , and must be accepted as perhaps a cause of some delay . An early settlement , in part at least , of the questions between the Governments is hoped . In the meantime , awaiting the results of immediately pending negotiations , I defer a further and fuller communication on the subject of the relations of this country and Spain . I have again to call the attention of Congress to the unsatisfactory condition of the existing laws with reference to expatriation and the election of nationality . Formerly , amid conflicting opinions and decisions , it was difficult to exactly determine how far the doctrine of perpetual allegiance was applicable to citizens of the United States . Congress by the act of the 27th of July , 1868 , asserted the abstract right of expatriation as a fundamental principle of this Government . Notwithstanding such assertion and the necessity of frequent application of the principle , no legislation has been had defining what acts or formalities shall work expatriation or when a citizen shall be deemed to have renounced or to have lost his citizenship . The importance of such definition is obvious . The representatives of the United States in foreign countries are continually called upon to lend their aid and the protection of the United States to persons concerning the good faith or the reality of whose citizenship there is at least great question . In some cases the provisions of the treaties furnish some guide in others it seems left to the person claiming the benefits of citizenship , while living in a foreign country , contributing in no manner to the performance of the duties of a citizen of the United States , and without intention at any time to return and undertake those duties , to use the claims to citizenship of the United States simply as a shield from the performance of the obligations of a citizen elsewhere . The status of children born of American parents residing in a foreign country , of American women who have married aliens , of American citizens residing abroad where such question is not regulated by treaty , are all sources of frequent difficulty and discussion . Legislation on these and similar questions , and particularly defining when and under what circumstances expatriation can be accomplished or is to be presumed , is especially needed . In this connection I earnestly call the attention of Congress to the difficulties arising from fraudulent naturalization . The United States wisely , freely , and liberally offers its citizenship to all who may come in good faith to reside within its limits on their complying with certain prescribed reasonable and simple formalities and conditions . Among the highest duties of the Government is that to afford firm , sufficient , and equal protection to all its citizens , whether native born or naturalized . Care should be taken that a right carrying with it such support from the Government should not be fraudulently obtained , and should be bestowed only upon full proof of a compliance with the law and yet frequent instances are brought to the attention of the Government of illegal and fraudulent naturalization and of the unauthorized use of certificates thus improperly obtained . In some cases the fraudulent character of the naturalization has appeared upon the face of the certificate itself in others examination discloses that the holder had not complied with the law , and in others certificates have been obtained where the persons holding them not only were not entitled to be naturalized , but had not even been within the United States at the time of the pretended naturalization . Instances of each of these classes of fraud are discovered at our legations , where the certificates of naturalization are presented either for the purpose of obtaining passports or in demanding the protection of the legation . When the fraud is apparent on the face of such certificates , they are taken up by the representatives of the Government and forwarded to the Department of State . But even then the record of the court in which the fraudulent naturalization occurred remains , and duplicate certificates are readily obtainable . Upon the presentation of these for the issue of passports or in demanding protection of the Government , the fraud sometimes escapes notice , and such certificates are not infrequently used in transactions of business to the deception and injury of innocent parties . Without placing any additional obstacles in the way of the obtainment of citizenship by the worthy and well intentioned foreigner who comes in good faith to cast his lot with ours , I earnestly recommend further legislation to punish fraudulent naturalization and to secure the ready cancellation of the record of every naturalization made in fraud . Since my last annual message the exchange has been made of the ratification of treaties of extradition with Belgium , Ecuador , Peru , and Salvador also of a treaty of commerce and navigation with Peru , and one of commerce and consular privileges with Salvador all of which have been duly proclaimed , as has also a declaration with Russia with reference to trade marks . The report of the Secretary of the Treasury , which by law is made directly to Congress , and forms no part of this message , will show the receipts and expenditures of the Government for the last fiscal year , the amount received from each source of revenue , and the amount paid out for each of the Departments of Government . It will be observed from this report that the amount of receipts over expenditures has been but 2 , 344 , 882 . 30 for the fiscal year ending June 30 , 1874 , and that for the current fiscal year the estimated receipts over expenditures will not much exceed 9 , 000 , 000 . In view of the large national debt existing and the obligation to add 1 per cent per annum to the sinking fund , a sum amounting now to over 34 , 000 , 000 per annum , I submit whether revenues should not be increased or expenditures diminished to reach this amount of surplus . Not to provide for the sinking fund is a partial failure to comply with the contracts and obligations of the Government . At the last session of Congress a very considerable reduction was made in rates of taxation and in the number of articles submitted to taxation the question may well be asked , whether or not , in some instances , unwisely . In connection with this subject , too , I venture the opinion that the means of collecting the revenue , especially from imports , have been so embarrassed by legislation as to make it questionable whether or not large amounts are not lost by failure to collect , to the direct loss of the Treasury and to the prejudice of the interests of honest importers and taxpayers . The Secretary of the Treasury in his report favors legislation looking to an early return to specie payments , thus supporting views previously expressed in this message . He also recommends economy in appropriations calls attention to the loss of revenue from repealing the tax on tea and coffee , without benefit to the consumer recommends an increase of 10 cents a gallon on whisky , and , further , that no modification be made in the banking and currency bill passed at the last session of Congress , unless modification should become necessary by reason of the adoption of measures for returning to specie payments . In these recommendations I cordially join . I would suggest to Congress the propriety of readjusting the tariff so as to increase the revenue , and at the same time decrease the number of articles upon which duties are levied . Those articles which enter into our manufactures and are not produced at home , it seems to me , should be entered free . Those articles of manufacture which we produce a constituent part of , but do not produce the whole , that part which we do not produce should enter free also . I will instance fine wool , dyes , etc . These articles must be imported to form a part of the manufacture of the higher grades of woolen goods . Chemicals used as dyes , compounded in medicines , and used in various ways in manufactures come under this class . The introduction free of duty of such wools as we do not produce would stimulate the manufacture of goods requiring the use of those we do produce , and therefore would be a benefit to home production . There are many articles entering into home manufactures which we do not produce ourselves the tariff upon which increases the cost of producing the manufactured article . All corrections in this regard are in the direction of bringing labor and capital in harmony with each other and of supplying one of the elements of prosperity so much needed . The report of the Secretary of War herewith attached , and forming a part of this message , gives all the information concerning the operations , wants , and necessities of the Army , and contains many suggestions and recommendations which I commend to your special attention . There is no class of Government employees who are harder worked than the Army officers and men none who perform their tasks more cheerfully and efficiently and under circumstances of greater privations and hardships . Legislation is desirable to render more efficient this branch of the public service . All the recommendations of the Secretary of War I regard as judicious , and I especially commend to your attention the following The consolidation of Government arsenals the restoration of mileage to officers traveling under orders the exemption of money received from the sale of subsistence stores from being covered into the Treasury the use of appropriations for the purchase of subsistence stores without waiting for the beginning of the fiscal year for which the appropriation is made for additional appropriations for the collection of torpedo material for increased appropriations for the manufacture of arms for relieving the various States from indebtedness for arms charged to them during the rebellion for dropping officers from the rolls of the Army without trial for the offense of drawing pay more than once for the same period for the discouragement of the plan to pay soldiers by cheek , and for the establishment of a professorship of rhetoric and English literature at West Point . The reasons for these recommendations are obvious , and are set forth sufficiently in the reports attached . I also recommend that the status of the staff corps of the Army be fixed , where this has not already been done , so that promotions may be made and vacancies filled as they occur in each grade when reduced below the number to be fixed by law . The necessity for such legislation is specially felt now in the Pay Department . The number of officers in that department is below the number adequate to the performance of the duties required of them by law . The efficiency of the Navy has been largely increased during the last year . Under the impulse of the foreign complications which threatened us at the commencement of the last session of Congress , most of our efficient wooden ships were put in condition for immediate service , and the repairs of our ironclad fleet were pushed with the utmost vigor . The result is that most of these are now in an effective state and need only to be manned and put in commission to go at once into service . Some of the new sloops authorized by Congress are already in commission , and most of the remainder are launched and wait only the completion of their machinery to enable them to take their places as part of our effective force . Two iron torpedo ships have been completed during the last year , and four of our large double turreted ironclads are now undergoing repairs . When these are finished , everything that is useful of our Navy , as now authorized , will be in condition for service , and with the advance in the science of torpedo warfare the American Navy , comparatively small as it is , will be found at any time powerful for the purposes of a peaceful nation . Much has been accomplished during the year in aid of science and to increase the sum of general knowledge and further the interests of commerce and civilization . Extensive and much needed soundings have been made for hydrographic purposes and to fix the proper routes of ocean telegraphs . Further surveys of the great Isthmus have been undertaken and completed , and two vessels of the Navy are now employed , in conjunction with those of England , France , Germany , and Russia , in observations connected with the transit of Venus , so useful and interesting to the scientific world . The estimates for this branch of the public service do not differ materially from those of last year , those for the general support of the service being somewhat less and those for permanent improvements at the various stations rather larger than the corresponding estimate made a year ago . The regular maintenance and a steady increase in the efficiency of this most important arm in proportion to the growth of our maritime intercourse and interests is recommended to the attention of Congress . The use of the Navy in time of peace might be further utilized by a direct authorization of the employment of naval vessels in explorations and surveys of the supposed navigable waters of other nationalities on this continent , especially the tributaries of the two great rivers of South America , the Orinoco and the Amazon . Nothing prevents , under existing laws , such exploration , except that expenditures must be made in such expeditions beyond those usually provided for in the appropriations . The field designated is unquestionably one of interest and one capable of large development of commercial interests advantageous to the peoples reached and to those who may establish relations with them . Education of the people entitled to exercise the right of franchise I regard essential to general prosperity everywhere , and especially so in republics , where birth , education , or previous condition does not enter into account in giving suffrage . Next to the public school , the post office is the great agent of education over our vast territory . The rapidity with which new sections are being settled , thus increasing the carrying of mails in a more rapid ratio than the increase of receipts , is not alarming . The report of the Postmaster General herewith attached shows that there was an increase of revenue in his Department in 1873 over the previous year of 1 , 674 , 411 , and an increase of cost of carrying the mails and paying employees of 3 , 041 , 468 . 91 . The report of the Postmaster General gives interesting statistics of his Department , and compares them with the corresponding statistics of a year ago , showing a growth in every branch of the Department . A postal convention has been concluded with New South Wales , an exchange of postal cards established with Switzerland , and the negotiations pending for several years past with France have been terminated in a convention with that country , which went into effect last August . An international postal congress was convened in Berne , Switzerland , in September last , at which the United States was represented by an officer of the Post Office Department of much experience and of qualification for the position . A convention for the establishment of an international postal union was agreed upon and signed by the delegates of the countries represented , subject to the approval of the proper authorities of those countries . I respectfully direct your attention to the report of the Postmaster General and to his suggestions in regard to an equitable adjustment of the question of compensation to railroads for carrying the mails . Your attention will be drawn to the unsettled condition of affairs in some of the Southern States . On the 14th of September last the governor of Louisiana called upon me , as provided by the Constitution and laws of the United States , to aid in suppressing domestic violence in that State . This call was made in view of a proclamation issued on that day by Penn , claiming that he was elected lieutenant governor in 1872 , and calling upon the militia of the State to arm , assemble , and drive from power the usurpers , as he designated the officers of the State government . On the next day I issued my proclamation commanding the insurgents to disperse within five days from the date thereof , and subsequently learned that on that day they had taken forcible possession of the statehouse . Steps were taken by me to support the existing and recognized State government , but before the expiration of the five days the insurrectionary movement was practically abandoned , and the officers of the State government , with some minor exceptions , resumed their powers and duties . Considering that the present State administration of Louisiana has been the only government in that State for nearly two years that it has been tacitly acknowledged and acquiesced in as such by Congress , and more than once expressly recognized by me , I regarded it as my clear duty , when legally called upon for that purpose , to prevent its overthrow by an armed mob under pretense of fraud and irregularity in the election of 1872 . I have heretofore called the attention of Congress to this subject , stating that on account of the frauds and forgeries committed at said election , and because it appears that the returns thereof were never legally canvassed , it was impossible to tell thereby who were chosen but from the best sources of information at my command I have always believed that the present State officers received a majority of the legal votes actually cast at that election . I repeat what I said in my special message of February 23 , 1873 , that in the event of no action by Congress I must continue to recognize the government heretofore recognized by me . I regret to say that with preparations for the late election decided indications appeared in some localities in the Southern States of a determination , by acts of violence and intimidation , to deprive citizens of the freedom of the ballot because of their political opinions . Bands of men , masked and armed , made their appearance White Leagues and other societies were formed large quantities of arms and ammunition were imported and distributed to these organizations military drills , with menacing demonstrations , were held , and with all these murders enough were committed to spread terror among those whose political action was to be suppressed , if possible , by these intolerant and criminal proceedings . In some places colored laborers were compelled to vote according to the wishes of their employers , under threats of discharge if they acted otherwise and there are too many instances in which , when these threats were disregarded , they were remorselessly executed by those who made them . I understand that the fifteenth amendment to the Constitution was made to prevent this and a like state of things , and the act of May 31 , 1870 , with amendments , was passed to enforce its provisions , the object of both being to guarantee to all citizens the right to vote and to protect them in the free enjoyment of that right . Enjoined by the Constitution to take care that the laws be faithfully executed , and convinced by undoubted evidence that violations of said act had been committed and that a widespread and flagrant disregard of it was contemplated , the proper officers were instructed to prosecute the offenders , and troops were stationed at convenient points to aid these officers , if necessary , in the performance of their official duties . Complaints are made of this interference by Federal authority but if said amendment and act do not provide for such interference under the circumstances as above stated , then they are without meaning , force , or effect , and the whole scheme of colored enfranchisement is worse than mockery and little better than a crime . Possibly Congress may find it due to truth and justice to ascertain , by means of a committee , whether the alleged wrongs to colored citizens for political purposes are real or the reports thereof were manufactured for the occasion . The whole number of troops in the States of Louisiana , Alabama , Georgia , Florida , South Carolina , North Carolina , Kentucky , Tennessee , Arkansas , Mississippi , Maryland , and Virginia at the time of the election was 4 , 082 . This embraces the garrisons of all the forts from the Delaware to the Gulf of Mexico . Another trouble has arisen in Arkansas . Article 13 of the constitution of that State which was adopted in 1868 , and upon the approval of which by Congress the State was restored to representation as one of the States of the Union provides in effect that before any amendments proposed to this constitution shall become a part thereof they shall be passed by two successive assemblies and then submitted to and ratified by a majority of the electors of the State voting thereon . On the 11th of May , 1874 , the governor convened an extra session of the general assembly of the State , which on the 18th of the same month passed an act providing for a convention to frame a new constitution . Pursuant to this act , and at an election held on the 30th of June , 1874 , the convention was approved , and delegates were chosen thereto , who assembled on the 14th of last July and framed a new constitution , the schedule of which provided for the election of an entire new set of State officers in a manner contrary to the then existing election laws of the State . On the 13th of October , 1874 , this constitution , as therein provided , was submitted to the people for their approval or rejection , and according to the election returns was approved by a large majority of those qualified to vote thereon and at the same election persons were chosen to fill all the State , county , and township offices . The governor elected in 1872 for the term of four years turned over his office to the governor chosen under the new constitution , whereupon the lieutenant governor , also elected in 1872 for a term of four years , claiming to act as governor , and alleging that said proceedings by which the new constitution was made and a new set of officers elected were unconstitutional , illegal , and void , called upon me , as provided in section 4 , Article Iof the Constitution , to protect the State against domestic violence . As Congress is now investigating the political affairs of Arkansas , I have declined to interfere . The whole subject of Executive interference with the affairs of a State is repugnant to public opinion , to the feelings of those who , from their official capacity , must be used in such interposition , and to him or those who must direct . Unless most clearly on the side of law , such interference becomes a crime with the law to support it , it is condemned without a heating . I desire , therefore , that all necessity for Executive direction in local affairs may become unnecessary and obsolete . I invite the attention , not of Congress , but of the people of the United States , to the causes and effects of these unhappy questions . Is there not a disposition on one side to magnify wrongs and outrages , and on the other side to belittle them or justify them If public opinion could be directed to a correct survey of what is and to rebuking wrong and aiding the proper authorities in punishing it , a better state of feeling would be inculcated , and the sooner we would have that peace which would leave the States free indeed to regulate their own domestic affairs . I believe on the part of our citizens of the Southern States the better part of them there is a disposition to be law abiding , and to do no violence either to individuals or to the laws existing . But do they do right in ignoring the existence of violence and bloodshed in resistance to constituted authority I sympathize with their prostrate condition , and would do all in my power to relieve them , acknowledging that in some instances they have had most trying governments to live under , and very oppressive ones in the way of taxation for nominal improvements , not giving benefits equal to the hardships imposed . But can they proclaim themselves entirely irresponsible for this condition They can not . Violence has been rampant in some localities , and has either been justified or denied by those who could have prevented it . The theory is even raised that there is to be no further interference on the part of the General Government to protect citizens within a State where the State authorities fail to give protection . This is a great mistake . While I remain Executive all the laws of Congress and the provisions of the Constitution , including the recent amendments added thereto , will be enforced with rigor , but with regret that they should have added one jot or tittle to Executive duties or powers . Let there be fairness in the discussion of Southern questions , the advocates of both or all political parties giving honest , truthful reports of occurrences , condemning the wrong and upholding the tight , and soon all will be well . Under existing conditions the negro votes the Republican ticket because he knows his friends are of that party . Many a good citizen votes the opposite , not because he agrees with the great principles of state which separate parties , but because , generally , he is opposed to negro rule . This is a most delusive cry . Treat the negro as a citizen and a voter , as he is and must remain , and soon parties will be divided , not on the color line , but on principle . Then we shall have no complaint of sectional interference . The report of the Attorney General contains valuable recommendations relating to the administration of justice in the courts of the United States , to which I invite your attention . I respectfully suggest to Congress the propriety of increasing the number of judicial districts in the United States to eleven the present number being nine and the creation of two additional judgeships . The territory to be traversed by the circuit judges is so great and the business of the courts so steadily increasing that it is growing more and more impossible for them to keep up with the business requiring their attention . Whether this would involve the necessity of adding two more justices of the Supreme Court to the present number I submit to the judgment of Congress . The attention of Congress is invited to the report of the Secretary of the Interior and to the legislation asked for by him . The domestic interests of the people are more intimately connected with this Department than with either of the other Departments of Government . Its duties have been added to from time to time until they have become so onerous that without the most perfect system and order it will be impossible for any Secretary of the Interior to keep trace of all official transactions having his sanction and done in his name , and for which he is held personally responsible . The policy adopted for the management of Indian affairs , known as the peace policy , has been adhered to with most beneficial results . It is confidently hoped that a few years more will relieve our frontiers from danger of Indian depredations . I commend the recommendation of the Secretary for the extension of the homestead laws to the Indians and for some sort of Territorial government for the Indian Territory . A great majority of the Indians occupying this Territory are believed yet to be incapable of maintaining their rights against the more civilized and enlightened white man . Any Territorial form of government given them , therefore , should protect them in their homes and property for a period of at least twenty years , and before its final adoption should be ratified by a majority of those affected . The report of the Secretary of the Interior herewith attached gives much interesting statistical information , which I abstain from giving an abstract of , but refer you to the report itself . The act of Congress providing the oath which pensioners must subscribe to before drawing their pensions cuts off from this bounty a few survivors of the War of 1812 residing in the Southern States . I recommend the restoration of this bounty to all such . The number of persons whose names would thus be restored to the list of pensioners is not large . They are all old persons , who could have taken no part in the rebellion , and the services for which they were awarded pensions were in defense of the whole country . The report of the Commissioner of Agriculture herewith contains suggestions of much interest to the general public , and refers to the sly approaching Centennial and the part his Department is ready to take in it . I feel that the nation at large is interested in having this exposition a success , and commend to Congress such action as will secure a greater general interest in it . Already many foreign nations have signified their intention to be represented at it , and it may be expected that every civilized nation will be represented . The rules adopted to improve the civil service of the Government have been adhered to as closely as has been practicable with the opposition with which they meet . The effect , I believe , has been beneficial on the whole , and has tended to the elevation of the service . But it is impracticable to maintain them without direct and positive support of Congress . Generally the support which this reform receives is from those who give it their support only to find fault when the rules are apparently departed from . Removals from office without preferring charges against parties removed are frequently cited as departures from the rules adopted , and the retention of those against whom charges are made by irresponsible persons and without good grounds is also often condemned as a violation of them . Under these circumstances , therefore , I announce that if Congress adjourns without positive legislation on the subject of civil service reform I will regard such action as a disapproval of the system , and will abandon it , except so far as to require examinations for certain appointees , to determine their fitness . Competitive examinations will be abandoned . The gentlemen who have given their services , without compensation , as members of the board to devise rules and regulations for the government of the civil service of the country have shown much zeal and earnestness in their work , and to them , as well as to myself , it will be a source of mortification if it is to be thrown away . But I repeat that it is impossible to carry this system to a successful issue without general approval and assistance and positive law to support it . I have stated that three elements of prosperity to the nation capital , labor , skilled and unskilled , and products of the soil still remain with us . To direct the employment of these is a problem deserving the most serious attention of Congress . If employment can be given to all the labor offering itself , prosperity necessarily follows . I have expressed the opinion , and repeat it , that the first requisite to the accomplishment of this end is the substitution of a sound currency in place of one of a fluctuating value . This secured , there are many interests that might be fostered to the great profit of both labor and capital . How to induce capital to employ labor is the question . The subject of cheap transportation has occupied the attention of Congress . Much new light on this question will without doubt be given by the committee appointed by the last Congress to investigate and report upon this subject . A revival of shipbuilding , and particularly of iron steamship building , is of vast importance to our national prosperity . The United States is now paying over 100 , 000 , 000 per annum for freights and passage on foreign ships to be carried abroad and expended in the employment and support of other peoples beyond a fair percentage of what should go to foreign vessels , estimating on the tonnage and travel of each respectively . It is to be regretted that this disparity in the carrying trade exists , and to correct it I would be willing to see a great departure from the usual course of Government in supporting what might usually be termed private enterprise . I would not suggest as a remedy direct subsidy to American steamship lines , but I would suggest the direct offer of ample compensation for carrying the mails between Atlantic Seaboard cities and the Continent on American owned and American built steamers , and would extend this liberality to vessels carrying the mails to South American States and to Central America and Mexico , and would pursue the same policy from our Pacific seaports to foreign seaports on the Pacific . It might be demanded that vessels built for this service should come up to a standard fixed by legislation in tonnage , speed , and all other qualities , looking to the possibility of Government requiring them at some time for war purposes . The right also of taking possession of them in such emergency should be guarded . I offer these suggestions , believing them worthy of consideration , in all seriousness , affecting all sections and all interests alike . If anything better can be done to direct the country into a course of general prosperity , no one will be more ready than I to second the plan . Forwarded herewith will be found the report of the commissioners appointed under an act of Congress approved June 20 , 1874 , to wind up the affairs of the District government . It will be seen from the report that the net debt of the District of Columbia , less securities on hand and available , is Bonded debt issued prior to July 1 , 1874 8 , 883 , 940 . 933 . 65 bonds , act of Congress June 20 , 18742 , 088 , 168 . 73Certificates of the board of audit4 , 770 , 558 . 4515 , 742 , 667 . 61Less special improvement assesments chargeable to private property in excess of anydemand against such assessments 1 , 614 , 054 . 37Less Chesapeake and Ohio Canal bonds75 , 000 . 00And Washington and Alexandria Railroad bonds59 , 000 . 00In the hands of the commissioners of the sinking fund1 , 748 , 054 . 37Leaving actual debt , less said assets13 , 994 , 613 . 24In addition to this there are claims preferred against the government of the District amounting , in the estimated aggregate reported by the board of audit , to 3 , 147 , 787 . 48 , of which the greater part will probably be rejected . This sum can with no more propriety be included in the debt account of the District government than can the thousands of claims against the General Government be included as a portion of the national debt . But the aggregate sum thus stated includes something more than the funded debt chargeable exclusively to the District of Columbia . The act of Congress of June 20 , 1874 , contemplates an apportionment between the United States Government and the District of Columbia in respect of the payment of the principal and interest of the 3 . 65 bonds . Therefore in computing with precision the bonded debt of the District the aggregate sums above stated as respects 3 . 65 bonds now issued , the outstanding certificates of the board of audit , and the unadjusted claims pending before that board should be reduced to the extent of the amount to be apportioned to the United States Government in the manner indicated in the act of Congress of June 20 , 1874 . I especially invite your attention to the recommendations of the commissioners of the sinking fund relative to the ambiguity of the act of June 20 , 1874 , the interest on the District bonds , and the consolidation of the indebtedness of the District . I feel much indebted to the gentlemen who consented to leave their private affairs and come from a distance to attend to the business of this District , and for the able and satisfactory manner in which it has been conducted . I am sure their services will be equally appreciated by the entire country . It will be seen from the accompanying full report of the board of health that the sanitary condition of the District is very satisfactory . In my opinion the District of Columbia should be regarded as the grounds of the national capital , in which the entire people are interested . I do not allude to this to urge generous appropriations to the District , but to draw the attention of Congress , in framing a law for the government of the District , to the magnificent scale on which the city was planned by the founders of the Government the manner in which , for ornamental purposes , the reservations , streets , and avenues were laid out , and the proportion of the property actually possessed by the General Government . I think the proportion of the expenses of the government and improvements to be borne by the General Government , the cities of Washington and Georgetown , and the county should be carefully and equitably defined . In accordance with section 3 , act approved June 23 , 1874 , I appointed a board to make a survey of the mouth of the Mississippi River with a view to determine the best method of obtaining and maintaining a depth of water sufficient for the purposes of commerce , etc . and in accordance with an act entitled An act to provide for the appointment of a commission of engineers to investigate and report a permanent plan for the reclamation of the alluvial basin of the Mississippi River subject to inundation , I appointed a commission of engineers . Neither board has yet completed its labors . When their reports are received , they will be forwarded to Congress without delay .<speech_sep>By the President of the United States of America A Proclamation Whereas by an act of Congress entitled An act to enforce the provisions of the fourteenth amendment to the Constitution of the United States , and for other purposes , approved the 20th day of April , 1871 , power is given to the President of the United States , when in his judgment the public safety shall require it , to suspend the privileges of the writ of habeas corpus in any State or part of a State whenever combinations and conspiracies exist in such State or part of a State for the purpose of depriving any portion or class of the people of such State of the rights , privileges , immunities , and protection named in the Constitution of the United States and secured by the act of Congress aforesaid and whenever such combinations and conspiracies do so obstruct and hinder the execution of the laws of any such State and of the United States as to deprive the people aforesaid of the rights , privileges , immunities , and protection aforesaid , and do oppose and obstruct the laws of the United States and their due execution , and impede and obstruct the due course of justice under the same and whenever such combinations shall be organized and armed , and so numerous and powerful as to be able by violence either to overthrow or to set at defiance the constituted authorities of said State and of the United States within such State and whenever by reason of said causes the conviction of such offenders and the preservation of the public peace shall become in such State or part of a State impracticable and Whereas such unlawful combinations and conspiracies for the purposes aforesaid are declared by the act of Congress aforesaid to be rebellion against the Government of the United States and Whereas by said act of Congress it is provided that before the President shall suspend the privileges of the writ of habeas corpus he shall first have made proclamation commanding such insurgents to disperse and Whereas on the 12th day of the present month of October the President of the United States did issue his proclamation , reciting therein , among other things , that such combinations and conspiracies did then exist in the counties of Spartanburg , York , Marion , Chester , Laurens , Newberry , Fairfield , Lancaster , and Chesterfield , in the State of South Carolina , and commanding thereby all persons composing such unlawful combinations and conspiracies to disperse and retire peaceably to their homes within five days from the date thereof , and to deliver either to the marshal of the United States for the district of South Carolina , or to any of his deputies , or to any military officer of the United States within said counties , all arms , ammunition , uniforms , disguises , and other means and implements used , kept , possessed , or controlled by them for carrying out the unlawful purposes for which the said combinations and conspiracies are organized and Whereas the insurgents engaged in such unlawful combinations and conspiracies within the counties aforesaid have not dispersed and retired peaceably to their respective homes , and have not delivered to the marshal of the United States , or to any of his deputies , or to any military officer of the United States within said counties , all arms , ammunition , uniforms , disguises , and other means and implements used , kept , possessed , or controlled by them for carrying out the unlawful purposes for which the combinations and conspiracies are organized , as commanded by said proclamation , but do still persist in the unlawful combinations and conspiracies aforesaid Now , therefore , Ulysses Grant , President of the United States of America , by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution of the United States and the act of Congress aforesaid , do hereby declare that in my judgment the public safety especially requires that the privileges of the writ of habeas corpus be suspended , to the end that such rebellion may be overthrown , and do hereby suspend the privileges of the writ of habeas corpus within the counties of Spartanburg , York , Marion , Chester , Laurens , Newberry , Fairfield , Lancaster , and Chesterfield , in said State of South Carolina , in respect to all persons arrested by the marshal of the United States for the said district of South Carolina , or by any of his deputies , or by any military officer of the United States , or by any soldier or citizen acting under the orders of said marshal , deputy , or such military officer within any one of said counties , charged with any violation of the act of Congress aforesaid , during the continuance of such rebellion . In witness whereof I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed . Done at the city of Washington , this 17th day of October , 1871 , and of the Independence of the United States of America the ninety sixth . GRANT . By the President BANCROFT DAVIS , Acting Secretary of State .<speech_sep>By the President of the United States of America A Proclamation Whereas the act of Congress approved June 25 , 1868 , constituted , on and after that date , eight hours a day s work for all laborers , workmen , and mechanics employed by or on behalf of the Government of the United States , and repealed all acts and parts of acts inconsistent therewith Now , therefore , Ulysses Grant , President of the United States , do hereby direct that from and after this date no reduction shall be made in the wages paid by the Government by the day to such laborers , workmen , and mechanics on account of such reduction of the hours of labor . In testimony whereof I have hereto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed . Done at the city of Washington , this 19th day of May , 1869 , and of the Independence of the United States the ninety third . GRANT . By the President HAMILTON FISSecretary of State .<speech_sep>To the Senate of the United States Herewith I return Senate bill No . 172 , entitled An act fixing the salary of the President of the United States , without my approval . I am constrained to this course from a sense of duty to my successors in office , to myself , and to what is due to the dignity of the position of Chief Magistrate of a nation of more than 40 , 000 , 000 people . When the salary of the President of the United States , pursuant to the Constitution , was fixed at 25 , 000 per annum , we were a nation of but 3 , 000 , 000 people , poor from a long and exhaustive war , without commerce or manufactures , with but few wants and those cheaply supplied . The salary must then have been deemed small for the responsibilities and dignity of the position , but justifiably so from the impoverished condition of the Treasury and the simplicity it was desired to cultivate in the Republic . The salary of Congressmen under the Constitution was first fixed at 6 per day for the time actually in session an average of about one hundred and twenty days to each session or 720 per year , or less than one thirtieth of the salary of the President . Congress have legislated upon their own salaries from time to time since , until finally it reached 5 , 000 per annum , or one fifth that of the President , before the salary of the latter was increased . No one having a knowledge of the cost of living at the national capital will contend that the present salary of Congressmen is too high , unless it is the intention to make the office one entirely of honor , when the salary should be abolished a proposition repugnant to our republican ideas and institutions . I do not believe the citizens of this Republic desire their public servants to serve them without a fair compensation for their services . Twenty five thousand dollars does not defray the expenses of the Executive for one year , or has not in my experience . It is not now one fifth in value of what it was at the time of the adoption of the Constitution in supplying demands and wants . Having no personal interest in this matter , I have felt myself free to return this bill to the House in which it originated with my objections , believing that in doing so I meet the wishes and judgment of the great majority of those who indirectly pay all the salaries and other expenses of Government .<speech_sep>By the President of the United States of America A Proclamation Whereas it has been satisfactorily represented to me that turbulent and disorderly persons have combined together with force and arms to overthrow the State government of Louisiana and to resist the laws and constituted authorities of said State and Whereas it is provided in the Constitution of the United States that the United States shall protect every State in this Union , on application of the legislature , or of the executive when the legislature can not be convened , against domestic violence and Whereas it is provided in the laws of the United States that in all cases of insurrection in any State or of obstruction to the laws thereof it shall be lawful for the President of the United States , on application of the legislature of such State , or of the executive when the legislature can not be convened , to call forth the militia of any other State or States , or to employ such part of the land and naval forces as shall be judged necessary , for the purpose of suppressing such insurrection or causing the laws to be duly executed and Whereas the legislature of said State is not now in session and can not be convened in time to meet the present emergency , and the executive of said State , under section 4 of Article IV of the Constitution of the United States and the laws passed in pursuance thereof , has therefore made application to me for such part of the military force of the United States as may be necessary and adequate to protect said State and the citizens thereof against domestic violence and to enforce the due execution of the laws and Whereas it is required that whenever it may be necessary , in the judgment of the President , to use the military force for the purpose aforesaid , he shall forthwith , by proclamation , command such insurgents to disperse and retire peaceably to their respective homes within a limited time . Now , therefore , Ulysses Grant , President of the United States , do hereby make proclamation and command said turbulent and disorderly persons to disperse and retire peaceably to their respective abodes within five days from this date , and hereafter to submit themselves to the laws and constituted authorities of said State and I invoke the aid and cooperation of all good citizens thereof to uphold law and preserve the public peace . In witness whereof I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed . Done at the city of Washington , this 15th day of September , 1874 , and of the Independence of the United States the ninety ninth . GRANT . By the President HAMILTON FISSecretary of State .<speech_sep>Citizens of the United States Your suffrages having elected me to the office of President of the United States , I have , in conformity to the Constitution of our country , taken the oath of office prescribed therein . I have taken this oath without mental reservation and with the determination to do to the best of my ability all that is required of me . The responsibilities of the position I feel , but accept them without fear . The office has come to me unsought I commence its duties untrammeled . I bring to it a conscious desire and determination to fill it to the best of my ability to the satisfaction of the people . On all leading questions agitating the public mind I will always express my views to Congress and urge them according to my judgment , and when I think it advisable will exercise the constitutional privilege of interposing a veto to defeat measures which I oppose but all laws will be faithfully executed , whether they meet my approval or not . I shall on all subjects have a policy to recommend , but none to enforce against the will of the people . Laws are to govern all alike those opposed as well as those who favor them . I know no method to secure the repeal of bad or obnoxious laws so effective as their stringent execution . The country having just emerged from a great rebellion , many questions will come before it for settlement in the next four years which preceding Administrations have never had to deal with . In meeting these it is desirable that they should be approached calmly , without prejudice , hate , or sectional pride , remembering that the greatest good to the greatest number is the object to be attained . This requires security of person , property , and free religious and political opinion in every part of our common country , without regard to local prejudice . All laws to secure these ends will receive my best efforts for their enforcement . A great debt has been contracted in securing to us and our posterity the Union . The payment of this , principal and interest , as well as the return to a specie basis as soon as it can be accomplished without material detriment to the debtor class or to the country at large , must be provided for . To protect the national honor , every dollar of Government indebtedness should be paid in gold , unless otherwise expressly stipulated in the contract . Let it be understood that no repudiator of one farthing of our public debt will be trusted in public place , and it will go far toward strengthening a credit which ought to be the best in the world , and will ultimately enable us to replace the debt with bonds bearing less interest than we now pay . To this should be added a faithful collection of the revenue , a strict accountability to the Treasury for every dollar collected , and the greatest practicable retrenchment in expenditure in every department of Government . When we compare the paying capacity of the country now , with the ten States in poverty from the effects of war , but soon to emerge , I trust , into greater prosperity than ever before , with its paying capacity twenty five years ago , and calculate what it probably will be twenty five years hence , who can doubt the feasibility of paying every dollar then with more ease than we now pay for useless luxuries Why , it looks as though Providence had bestowed upon us a strong box in the precious metals locked up in the sterile mountains of the far West , and which we are now forging the key to unlock , to meet the very contingency that is now upon us . Ultimately it may be necessary to insure the facilities to reach these riches and it may be necessary also that the General Government should give its aid to secure this access but that should only be when a dollar of obligation to pay secures precisely the same sort of dollar to use now , and not before . Whilst the question of specie payments is in abeyance the prudent business man is careful about contracting debts payable in the distant future . The nation should follow the same rule . A prostrate commerce is to be rebuilt and all industries encouraged . The young men of the country those who from their age must be its rulers twenty five years hence have a peculiar interest in maintaining the national honor . A moment s reflection as to what will be our commanding influence among the nations of the earth in their day , if they are only true to themselves , should inspire them with national pride . All divisions geographical , political , and religious can join in this common sentiment . How the public debt is to be paid or specie payments resumed is not so important as that a plan should be adopted and acquiesced in . A united determination to do is worth more than divided counsels upon the method of doing . Legislation upon this subject may not be necessary now , or even advisable , but it will be when the civil law is more fully restored in all parts of the country and trade resumes its wonted channels . It will be my endeavor to execute all laws in good faith , to collect all revenues assessed , and to have them properly accounted for and economically disbursed . I will to the best of my ability appoint to office those only who will carry out this design . In regard to foreign policy , I would deal with nations as equitable law requires individuals to deal with each other , and I would protect the law abiding citizen , whether of native or foreign birth , wherever his rights are jeopardized or the flag of our country floats . I would respect the rights of all nations , demanding equal respect for our own . If others depart from this rule in their dealings with us , we may be compelled to follow their precedent . The proper treatment of the original occupants of this land the Indians one deserving of careful study . I will favor any course toward them which tends to their civilization and ultimate citizenship . The question of suffrage is one which is likely to agitate the public so long as a portion of the citizens of the nation are excluded from its privileges in any State . It seems to me very desirable that this question should be settled now , and I entertain the hope and express the desire that it may be by the ratification of the fifteenth article of amendment to the Constitution . In conclusion I ask patient forbearance one toward another throughout the land , and a determined effort on the part of every citizen to do his share toward cementing a happy union and I ask the prayers of the nation to Almighty God in behalf of this consummation .<speech_sep>To the Senate and House of Representatives The year that has passed since the submission of my last message to Congress has , especially during the latter part of it , been an eventful one to the country . In the midst of great national prosperity a financial crisis has occurred that has brought low fortunes of gigantic proportions political partisanship has almost ceased to exist , especially in the agricultural regions and , finally , the capture upon the high seas of a vessel bearing our flag has for a time threatened the most serious consequences , and has agitated the public mind from one end of the country to the other . But this , happily , now is in the course of satisfactory adjustment , honorable to both nations concerned . The relations of the United States , however , with most of the other powers continue to be friendly and cordial . With France , Germany , Russia , Italy , and the minor European powers with Brazil and most of the South American Republics , and with Japan , nothing has occurred during the year to demand special notice . The correspondence between the Department of State and various diplomatic representatives in or from those countries is transmitted herewith . In executing the will of Congress , as expressed in its joint resolution of the 14th of February last , and in accordance with the provisions of the resolution , a number of practical artisans , of scientific men , and of honorary commissioners were authorized to attend the exposition at Vienna as commissioners on the part of the United States . It is believed that we have obtained the object which Congress had in view when it passed the joint resolution in order to enable the people of the United States to participate in the advantages of the International Exhibition of the Products of Agriculture , Manufactures , and the Fine Arts to be held at Vienna . I take pleasure in adding that the American exhibitors have received a gratifying number of diplomas and of medals . During the exposition a conference was held at Vienna for the purpose of consultation on the systems prevailing in different countries for the protection of inventions . I authorized a representative from the Patent Office to be present at Vienna at the time when this conference was to take place , in order to aid as far as he might in securing any possible additional protection to American inventors in Europe . The report of this agent will be laid before Congress . It is my pleasant duty to announce to Congress that the Emperor of China , on attaining his majority , received the diplomatic representatives of the Western powers in person . An account of these ceremonies and of the interesting discussions which preceded them will be found in the documents transmitted herewith . The accompanying papers show that some advance , although slight , has been made during the past year toward the suppression of the infamous Chinese cooly trade . I recommend Congress to inquire whether additional legislation be not needed on this subject . The money awarded to the United States by the tribunal of arbitration at Geneva was paid by Her Majesty s Government a few days in advance of the time when it would have become payable according to the terms of the treaty . In compliance with the provisions of the act of March 3 , 1873 , it was at once paid into the Treasury , and used to redeem , so far as it might , the public debt of the United States and the amount so redeemed was invested in a 5 per cent registered bond of the United States for 15 , 500 , 000 , which is now held by the Secretary of State , subject to the future disposition of Congress . I renew my recommendation , made at the opening of the last session of Congress , that a commission be created for the purpose of auditing and determining the amounts of the several direct losses growing out of the destruction of vessels and their cargoes by the Alabama , the Florida , or the Shenandoah after leaving Melbourne , for which the sufferers have received no equivalent or compensation , and of ascertaining the names of the persons entitled to receive compensation for the same , making the computations upon the basis indicated by the tribunal of arbitration at Geneva and that payment of such losses be authorized to an extent not to exceed the awards of the tribunal at Geneva . By an act approved on the 14th day of February last Congress made provision for completing , jointly with an officer or commissioner to be named by Her Britannic Majesty , the determination of so much of the boundary line between the territory of the United States and the possessions of Great Britain as was left uncompleted by the commissioners appointed under the act of Congress of August 11 , 1856 . Under the provisions of this act the northwest water boundary of the United States has been determined and marked in accordance with the award of the Emperor of Germany . A protocol and a copy of the map upon which the line was thus marked are contained in the papers submitted herewith . I also transmit a copy of the report of the commissioner for marking the northern boundary between the United States and the British possessions west of the Lake of the Woods , of the operations of the commission during the past season . Surveys have been made to a point 497 miles west of the Lake of the Woods , leaving about 350 miles to be surveyed , the field work of which can be completed during the next season . The mixed commission organized under the provisions of the treaty of Washington for settling and determining the claims of citizens of either power against the other arising out of acts committed against their persons or property during the period between April 13 , 1861 , and April 9 , 1865 , made its final award on the 25th day of September last . It was awarded that the Government of the United States should pay to the Government of Her Britannic Majesty , within twelve months from the date of the award , the sum of 1 , 929 , 819 in gold . The commission disallowed or dismissed all other claims of British subjects against the United States . The amount of the claims presented by the British Government , but disallowed or dismissed , is understood to be about 93 , 000 , 000 . It also disallowed all the claims of citizens of the United States against Great Britain which were referred to it . I recommend the early passage of an act appropriating the amount necessary to pay this award against the United States . I have caused to be communicated to the Government of the King of Italy the thanks of this Government for the eminent services rendered by Count Corti as the third commissioner on this commission . With dignity , learning , and impartiality he discharged duties requiring great labor and constant patience , to the satisfaction , I believe , of both Governments . I recommend legislation to create a special court , to consist of three judges , who shall be empowered to hear and determine all claims of aliens upon the United States arising out of acts committed against their persons or property during the insurrection . The recent reference under the treaty of Washington was confined to claims of British subjects arising during the period named in the treaty but it is understood that there are other British claims of a similar nature , arising after the 9th of April , 1865 , and it is known that other claims of a like nature are advanced by citizens or subjects of other powers . It is desirable to have these claims also examined and disposed of . Official information being received from the Dutch Government of a state of war between the King of the Netherlands and the Sultan of Acheen , the officers of the United States who were near the seat of the war were instructed to observe an impartial neutrality . It is believed that they have done so . The joint commission under the convention with Mexico of 1868 , having again been legally prolonged , has resumed its business , which , it is hoped , may be brought to an early conclusion . The distinguished representative of Her Britannic Majesty at Washington has kindly consented , with the approval of his Government , to assume the arduous and responsible duties of umpire in this commission , and to lend the weight of his character and name to such decisions as may not receive the acquiescence of both the arbitrators appointed by the respective Governments . The commissioners appointed pursuant to the authority of Congress to examine into the nature and extent of the forays by trespassers from that country upon the herds of Texas have made a report , which will be submitted for your consideration . The Venezuelan Government has been apprised of the sense of Congress in regard to the awards of the joint commission under the convention of 25th April , 1866 , as expressed in the act of the 25th of February last . It is apprehended that that Government does not realize the character of its obligations under that convention . As there is reason to believe , however , that its hesitancy in recognizing them springs , in part at least , from real difficulty in discharging them in connection with its obligations to other governments , the expediency of further forbearance on our part is believed to be worthy of your consideration . The Ottoman Government and that of Egypt have latterly shown a disposition to relieve foreign consuls of the judicial powers which heretofore they have exercised in the Turkish dominions , by organizing other tribunals . As Congress , however , has by law provided for the discharge of judicial functions by consuls of the United States in that quarter under the treaty of 1830 , I have not felt at liberty formally to accept the proposed change without the assent of Congress , whose decision upon the subject at as early a period as may be convenient is earnestly requested . I transmit herewith , for the consideration and determination of Congress , an application of the Republic of Santo Domingo to this Government to exercise a protectorate over that Republic . Since the adjournment of Congress the following treaties with foreign powers have been proclaimed A naturalization convention with Denmark a convention with Mexico for renewing the Claims Commission a convention of friendship , commerce , and extradition with the Orange Free State , and a naturalization convention with Ecuador . I renew the recommendation made in my message of December , 1870 , that Congress authorize the Postmaster General to issue all commissions to officials appointed through his Department . I invite the earnest attention of Congress to the existing laws of the United States respecting expatriation and the election of nationality by individuals . Many citizens of the United States reside permanently abroad with their families . Under the provisions of the act approved February 10 , 1855 , the children of such persons are to be deemed and taken to be citizens of the United States , but the rights of citizenship are not to descend to persons whose fathers never resided in the United States . It thus happens that persons who have never resided within the United States have been enabled to put forward a pretension to the protection of the United States against the claim to military service of the government under whose protection they were born and have been reared . In some cases even naturalized citizens of the United States have returned to the land of their birth , with intent to remain there , and their children , the issue of a marriage contracted there after their return , and who have never been in the United States , have laid claim to our protection when the lapse of many years had imposed upon them the duty of military service to the only government which had ever known them personally . Until the year 1868 it was left , embarrassed by conflicting opinions of courts and of jurists , to determine how far the doctrine of perpetual allegiance derived from our former colonial relations with Great Britain was applicable to American citizens . Congress then wisely swept these doubts away by enacting that Any declaration , instruction , opinion , order , or decision of any officer of this Government which denies , restricts , impairs , or questions the right of expatriation is inconsistent with the fundamental principles of this Government . But Congress did not indicate in that statute , nor has it since done so , what acts are to be deemed to work expatriation . For my own guidance in determining such questions I required under the provisions of the Constitution the opinion in writing of the principal officer in each of the Executive Departments upon certain questions relating to this subject . The result satisfies me that further legislation has become necessary . I therefore commend the subject to the careful consideration of Congress , and I transmit herewith copies of the several opinions of the principal officers of the Executive Departments , together with other correspondence and pertinent information on the same subject . The United States , who led the way in the overthrow of the feudal doctrine of perpetual allegiance , are among the last to indicate how their own citizens may elect another nationality . The papers submitted herewith indicate what is necessary to place us on a par with other leading nations in liberality of legislation on this international question . We have already in our treaties assented to the principles which would need to be embodied in laws intended to accomplish such results . We have agreed that citizens of the United States may cease to be citizens and may voluntarily render allegiance to other powers . We have agreed that residence in a foreign land , without intent to return , shall of itself work expatriation . We have agreed in some instances upon the length of time necessary for such continued residence to work a presumption of such intent . I invite Congress now to mark out and define when and how expatriation can be accomplished to regulate by law the condition of American women marrying foreigners to fix the status of children born in a foreign country of American parents residing more or less permanently abroad , and to make rules for determining such other kindred points as may seem best to Congress . In compliance with the request of Congress , I transmitted to the American minister at Madrid , with instructions to present it to the Spanish Government , the joint resolution approved on the 3d of March last , tendering to the people of Spain , in the name and on the behalf of the American people , the congratulations of Congress upon the efforts to consolidate in Spain the principles of universal liberty in a republican form of government . The existence of this new Republic was inaugurated by striking the fetters from the slaves in Porto Rico . This beneficent measure was followed by the release of several thousand persons illegally held as slaves in Cuba . Next , the Captain General of that colony was deprived of the power to set aside the orders of his superiors at Madrid , which had pertained to the office since 1825 . The sequestered estates of American citizens , which had been the cause of long and fruitless correspondence , were ordered to be restored to their owners . All these liberal steps were taken in the face of a violent opposition directed by the reactionary slave holders of Havana , who are vainly striving to stay the march of ideas which has terminated slavery in Christendom , Cuba only excepted . Unhappily , however , this baneful influence has thus far succeeded in defeating the efforts of all liberal minded men in Spain to abolish slavery in Cuba , and in preventing the promised reform in that island . The struggle for political supremacy continues there . The proslavery and aristocratic party in Cuba is gradually arraigning itself in more and more open hostility and defiance of the home government , while it still maintains a political connection with the Republic in the peninsula and although usurping and defying the authority of the home government whenever such usurpation or defiance tends in the direction of oppression or of the maintenance of abuses , it is still a power in Madrid , and is recognized by the Government . Thus an element more dangerous to continued colonial relations between Cuba and Spain than that which inspired the insurrection at Yara an element opposed to granting any relief from misrule and abuse , with no aspirations after freedom , commanding no sympathies in generous breasts , aiming to rivet still stronger the shackles of slavery and oppression has seized many of the emblems of power in Cuba , and , under professions of loyalty to the mother country , is exhausting the resources of the island , and is doing acts which are at variance with those principles of justice , of liberality , and of right which give nobility of character to a republic . In the interests of humanity , of civilization , and of progress , it is to be hoped that this evil influence may be soon averted . The steamer Virginius was on the 26th day of September , 1870 , duly registered at the port of New York as a part of the commercial marine of the United States . On the 4th of October , 1870 , having received the certificate of her register in the usual legal form , she sailed from the port of New York and has not since been within the territorial jurisdiction of the United States . On the 31st day of October last , while sailing under the flag of the United States on the high seas , she was forcibly seized by the Spanish gunboat Tornado , and was carried into the port of Santiago de Cuba , where fifty three of her passengers and crew were inhumanly , and , so far at least as relates to those who were citizens of the United States , without due process of law , put to death . It is a well established principle , asserted by the United States from the beginning of their national independence , recognized by Great Britain and other maritime powers , and stated by the Senate in a resolution passed unanimously on the 16th of June , 1858 , that American vessels on the high seas in time of peace , bearing the American flag , remain under the jurisdiction of the country to which they belong , and therefore any visitation , molestation , or detention of such vessel by force , or by the exhibition of force , on the part of a foreign power is in derogation of the sovereignty of the United States . In accordance with this principle , the restoration of the Virginius and the surrender of the survivors of her passengers and crew , and a due reparation to the flag , and the punishment of the authorities who had been guilty of the illegal acts of violence , were demanded . The Spanish Government has recognized the justice of the demand , and has arranged for the immediate delivery of the vessel , and for the surrender of the survivors of the passengers and crew , and for a salute to the flag , and for proceedings looking to the punishment of those who may be proved to have been guilty of illegal acts of violence toward citizens of the United States , and also toward indemnifying those who may be shown to be entitled to indemnity . A copy of a protocol of a conference between the Secretary of State and the Spanish minister , in which the terms of this arrangement were agreed to , is transmitted herewith . The correspondence on this subject with the legation of the United States in Madrid was conducted in cipher and by cable , and needs the verification of the actual text of the correspondence . It has seemed to me to be due to the importance of the case not to submit this correspondence until the accurate text can be received by mail . It is expected shortly , and will be submitted when received . In taking leave of this subject for the present I wish to renew the expression of my conviction that the existence of African slavery in Cuba is a principal cause of the lamentable condition of the island . I do not doubt that Congress shares with me the hope that it will soon be made to disappear , and that peace and prosperity may follow its abolition . The embargoing of American estates in Cuba , cruelty to American citizens detected in no act of hostility to the Spanish Government , the murdering of prisoners taken with arms in their hands , and , finally , the capture upon the high seas of a vessel sailing under the United States flag and bearing a United States registry have culminated in an outburst of indignation that has seemed for a time to threaten war . Pending negotiations between the United States and the Government of Spain on the subject of this capture , I have authorized the Secretary of the Navy to put our Navy on a war footing , to the extent , at least , of the entire annual appropriation for that branch of the service , trusting to Congress and the public opinion of the American people to justify my action . Assuming from the action of the last Congress in appointing a Committee on Privileges and Elections to prepare and report to this Congress a constitutional amendment to provide a better method of electing the President and Vice President of the United States , and also from the necessity of such an amendment , that there will be submitted to the State legislatures for ratification such an improvement in our Constitution , I suggest two others for your consideration First . To authorize the Executive to approve of so much of any measure passing the two Houses of Congress as his judgment may dictate , without approving the whole , the disapproved portion or portions to be subjected to the same rules as now , to wit , to be referred back to the House in which the measure or measures originated , and , if passed by a two thirds vote of the two Houses , then to become a law without the approval of the President . I would add to this a provision that there should be no legislation by Congress during the last twenty four hours of its sitting , except upon vetoes , in order to give the Executive an opportunity to examine and approve or disapprove bills understandingly . Second . To provide by amendment that when an extra session of Congress is convened by Executive proclamation legislation during the continuance of such extra session shall be confined to such subjects as the Executive may bring before it from time to time in writing . The advantages to be gained by these two amendments are too obvious for me to comment upon them . One session in each year is provided for by the Constitution , in which there are no restrictions as to the subjects of legislation by Congress . If more are required , it is always in the power of Congress , during their term of office , to provide for sessions at any time . The first of these amendments would protect the public against the many abuses and waste of public moneys which creep into appropriation bills and other important measures passing during the expiring hours of Congress , to which otherwise due consideration can not be given . TREASURY DEPARTMENThe receipts of the Government from all sources for the last fiscal year were 333 , 738 , 204 , and expenditures on all accounts 290 , 345 , 245 , thus showing an excess of receipts over expenditures of 43 , 392 , 959 . But it is not probable that this favorable exhibit will be shown for the present fiscal year . Indeed , it is very doubtful whether , except with great economy on the part of Congress in making appropriations and the same economy in administering the various Departments of Government , the revenues will not fall short of meeting actual expenses , including interest on the public debt . I commend to Congress such economy , and point out two sources where It seems to me it might commence , to wit , in the appropriations for public buildings in the many cities where work has not yet been commenced in the appropriations for river and harbor improvement in those localities where the improvements are of but little benefit to general commerce , and for fortifications . There is a still more fruitful source of expenditure , which I will point out later in this message . I refer to the easy method of manufacturing claims for losses incurred in suppressing the late rebellion . I would not be understood here as opposing the erection of good , substantial , and even ornamental buildings by the Government wherever such buildings are needed . In fact , I approve of the Government owning its own buildings in all sections of the country , and hope the day is not far distant when it will not only possess them , but will erect in the capital suitable residences for all persons who now receive commutation for quarters or rent at Government expense , and for the Cabinet , thus setting an example to the States which may induce them to erect buildings for their Senators . But I would have this work conducted at a time when the revenues of the country would abundantly justify it . The revenues have materially fallen off for the first five months of the present fiscal year from what they were expected to produce , owing to the general panic now prevailing , which commenced about the middle of September last . The full effect of this disaster , if it should not prove a blessing in disguise , is yet to be demonstrated . In either event it is your duty to heed the lesson and to provide by wise and well considered legislation , as far as it lies in your power , against its recurrence , and to take advantage of all benefits that may have accrued . My own judgment is that , however much individuals may have suffered , one long step has been taken toward specie payments that we can never have permanent prosperity until a specie basis is reached and that a specie basis can not be reached and maintained until our exports , exclusive of gold , pay for our imports , interest due abroad , and other specie obligations , or so nearly so as to leave an appreciable accumulation of the precious metals in the country from the products of our mines . The development of the mines of precious metals during the past year and the prospective development of them for years to come are gratifying in their results . Could but one half of the gold extracted from the mines be retained at home , our advance toward specie payments would be rapid . To increase our exports sufficient currency is required to keep all the industries of the country employed . Without this national as well as individual bankruptcy must ensue . Undue inflation , on the other hand , while it might give temporary relief , would only lead to inflation of prices , the impossibility of competing in our own markets for the products of home skill and labor , and repeated renewals of present experiences . Elasticity to our circulating medium , therefore , and just enough of it to transact the legitimate business of the country and to keep all industries employed , is what is most to be desired . The exact medium is specie , the recognized medium of exchange the world over . That obtained , we shall have a currency of an exact degree of elasticity . If there be too much of it for the legitimate purposes of trade and commerce , it will flow out of the country . If too little , the reverse will result . To hold what we have and to appreciate our currency to that standard is the problem deserving of the most serious consideration of Congress . The experience of the present panic has proven that the currency of the country , based , as it is , upon the credit of the country , is the best that has ever been devised . Usually in times of such trials currency has become worthless , or so much depreciated in value as to inflate the values of all the necessaries of life as compared with the currency . Everyone holding it has been anxious to dispose of it on any terms . Now we witness the reverse . Holders of currency hoard it as they did gold in former experiences of a like nature . It is patent to the most casual observer that much more currency , or money , is required to transact the legitimate trade of the country during the fall and winter months , when the vast crops are being removed , than during the balance of the year . With our present system the amount in the country remains the same throughout the entire year , resulting in an accumulation of all the surplus capital of the country in a few centers when not employed in the moving of crops , tempted there by the offer of interest on call loans . Interest being paid , this surplus capital must earn this interest paid with a profit . Being subject to call , it can not be loaned , only in part at best , to the merchant or manufacturer for a fixed term . Hence , no matter how much currency there might be in the country , it would be absorbed , prices keeping pace with the volume , and panics , stringency , and disasters would ever be recurring with the autumn . Elasticity in our monetary system , therefore , is the object to be attained first , and next to that , as far as possible , a prevention of the use of other people s money in stock and other species of speculation . To prevent the latter it seems to me that one great step would be taken by prohibiting the national banks from paying interest on deposits , by requiring them to hold their reserves in their own vaults , and by forcing them into resumption , though it would only be in legal tender notes . For this purpose I would suggest the establishment of clearing houses for your consideration . To secure the former many plans have been suggested , most , if not all , of which look to me more like inflation on the one hand , or compelling the Government , on the other , to pay interest , without corresponding benefits , upon the surplus funds of the country during the seasons when otherwise unemployed . I submit for your consideration whether this difficulty might not be overcome by authorizing the Secretary of the Treasury to issue at any time to national banks of issue any amount of their own notes below a fixed percentage of their issue say 40 per cent , upon the banks depositing with the Treasurer of the United States an amount of Government bonds equal to the amount of notes demanded , the banks to forfeit to the Government , say , 4 per cent of the interest accruing on the bonds so pledged during the time they remain with the Treasurer as security for the increased circulation , the bonds so pledged to be redeemable by the banks at their pleasure , either in whole or in part , by returning their own bills for cancellation to an amount equal to the face of the bonds withdrawn . I would further suggest for your consideration the propriety of authorizing national banks to diminish their standing issue at pleasure , by returning for cancellation their own bills and withdrawing so many United States bonds as are pledged for the bills returned . In view of the great actual contraction that has taken place in the currency and the comparative contraction continuously going on , due to the increase of population , increase of manufactories and all the industries , I do not believe there is too much of it now for the dullest period of the year . Indeed , if clearing houses should be established , thus forcing redemption , it is a question for your consideration whether banking should not be made free , retaining all the safeguards now required to secure bill holders . In any modification of the present laws regulating national banks , as a further step toward preparing for resumption of specie payments , I invite your attention to a consideration of the propriety of exacting from them the retention as a part of their reserve either the whole or a part of the gold interest accruing upon the bonds pledged as security for their issue . I have not reflected enough on the bearing this might have in producing a scarcity of coin with which to pay duties on imports to give it my positive recommendation . But your attention is invited to the subject . During the last four years the currency has been contracted , directly , by the withdrawal of 3 per cent certificates , compound interest notes , and seven thirty bonds outstanding on the 4th of March , 1869 , all of which took the place of legal tenders in the bank reserves to the extent of 63 , 000 , 000 . During the same period there has been a much larger comparative contraction of the currency . The population of the country has largely increased . More than 25 , 000 miles of railroad have been built , requiring the active use of capital to operate them . Millions of acres of land have been opened to cultivation , requiring capital to move the products . Manufactories have multiplied beyond all precedent in the same period of time , requiring capital weekly for the payment of wages and for the purchase of material and probably the largest of all comparative contraction arises from the organizing of free labor in the South . Now every laborer there receives his wages , and , for want of savings banks , the greater part of such wages is carried in the pocket or hoarded until required for use . These suggestions are thrown out for your consideration , without any recommendation that they shall be adopted literally , but hoping that the best method may be arrived at to secure such an elasticity of the currency as will keep employed all the industries of the country and prevent such an inflation as will put off indefinitely the resumption of specie payments , an object so devoutly to be wished for by all , and by none more earnestly than the class of people most directly interested those who earn their bread by the sweat of their brow . The decisions of Congress on this subject will have the hearty support of the Executive . In previous messages I have called attention to the decline in American shipbuilding and recommended such legislation as would secure to us our proportion of the carrying trade . Stimulated by high rates and abundance of freight , the progress for the last year in shipbuilding has been very satisfactory . There has been an increase of about 3 per cent in the amount transported in American vessels over the amount of last year . With the reduced cost of material which has taken place , it may reasonably be hoped that this progress will be maintained , and even increased . However , as we pay about 80 , 000 , 000 per annum to foreign vessels for the transportation to a market of our surplus products , thus increasing the balance of trade against us to this amount , the subject is one worthy of your serious consideration . Cheap transportation is a subject that has attracted the attention of both producers and consumers for the past few years , and has contributed to , if it has not been the direct cause of , the recent panic and stringency . As Congress , at its last session , appointed a special committee to investigate this whole subject during the vacation and report at this session , I have nothing to recommend until their report is read . There is one work , however , of a national character , in which the greater portion of the East and the West , the North and the South , are equally interested , to which I will invite your attention . The State of New York has a canal connecting Lake Erie with tide water on the Hudson River . The State of Illinois has a similar work connecting Lake Michigan with navigable water on the Illinois River , thus making water communication inland between the East and the West and South . These great artificial water courses are the property of the States through which they pass , and pay toll to those States . Would it not be wise statesmanship to pledge these States that if they will open these canals for the passage of large vessels the General Government will look after and keep in navigable condition the great public highways with which they connect , to wit , the Overslaugh on the Hudson , the Clair Flats , and the Illinois and Mississippi rivers This would be a national work one of great value to the producers of the West and South in giving them cheap transportation for their produce to the seaboard and a market , and to the consumers in the East in giving them cheaper food , particularly of those articles of food which do not find a foreign market , and the prices of which , therefore , are not regulated by foreign demands . The advantages of such a work are too obvious for argument . I submit the subject to you , therefore , without further comment . In attempting to regain our lost commerce and carrying trade I have heretofore called attention to the States south of us offering a field where much might be accomplished . To further this object I suggest that a small appropriation be made , accompanied with authority for the Secretary of the Navy to fit out a naval vessel to ascend the Amazon River to the mouth of the Madeira thence to explore that river and its tributaries into Bolivia , and to report to Congress at its next session , or as soon as practicable , the accessibility of the country by water , its resources , and the population so reached . Such an exploration would cost but little it can do no harm , and may result in establishing a trade of value to both nations . In further connection with the Treasury Department I would recommend a revision and codification of the tariff laws and the opening of more mints for coining money , with authority to coin for such nations as may apply . WAR DEPARTMENThe attention of Congress is invited to the recommendations contained in the report of the Secretary of War herewith accompanying . The apparent great cost of supporting the Army is fully explained by this report , and I hope will receive your attention . While inviting your general attention to all the recommendations made by the Secretary of War , there are two which I would especially invite you to consider First , the importance of preparing for war in time of peace by providing proper armament for our seacoast defenses . Proper armament is of vastly more importance than fortifications . The latter can be supplied very speedily for temporary purposes when needed the former can not . The second is the necessity of reopening promotion in the staff corps of the Army . Particularly is this necessity felt in the Medical , Pay , and Ordnance departments . At this time it is necessary to employ contract surgeons to supply the necessary medical attendance required by the Army . With the present force of the Pay Department it is now difficult to make the payments to troops provided for by law . Long delays in payments are productive of desertions and other demoralization , and the law prohibits the payment of troops by other than regular army paymasters . There are now sixteen vacancies in the Ordnance Department , thus leaving that branch of the service without sufficient officers to conduct the business of the different arsenals on a large scale if ever required . NAVY DEPARTMENDuring the past year our Navy has been depleted by the sale of some vessels no longer fit for naval service and by the condemnation of others not yet disposed of . This , however , has been more than compensated for by the repair of six of the old wooden ships and by the building of eight new sloops of war , authorized by the last Congress . The building of these latter has occurred at a doubly fortunate time . They are about being completed at a time when they may possibly be much needed , and the work upon them has not only given direct employment to thousands of men , but has no doubt been the means of keeping open establishments for other work at a time of great financial distress . Since the commencement of the last month , however , the distressing occurrences which have taken place in the waters of the Caribbean Sea , almost on our very seaboard , while they illustrate most forcibly the necessity always existing that a nation situated like ours should maintain in a state of possible efficiency a navy adequate to its responsibilities , has at the same time demanded that all the effective force we really have shall be put in immediate readiness for warlike service . This has been and is being done promptly and effectively , and I am assured that all the available ships and every authorized man of the American Navy will be ready for whatever action is required for the safety of our citizens or the maintenance of our honor . This , of course , will require the expenditure in a short time of some of the appropriations which were calculated to extend through the fiscal year , but Congress will , I doubt not , understand and appreciate the emergency , and will provide adequately not only for the present preparation , but for the future maintenance of our naval force . The Secretary of the Navy has during the past year been quietly putting some of our most effective monitors in condition for service , and thus the exigency finds us in a much better condition for work than we could possibly have been without his action . POST OFFICE DEPARTMENA complete exhibit is presented in the accompanying report of the postmaster General of the operations of the Post Office Department during the year . The ordinary postal revenues for the fiscal year ended June 30 , 1873 , amounted to 22 , 996 , 741 . 57 , and the expenditures of all kinds to 29 , 084 , 945 . 67 . The increase of revenues over 1872 was 1 , 081 , 315 . 20 , and the increase of expenditures 2 , 426 , 753 . 36 . Independent of the payments made from special appropriations for mail steamship lines , the amount drawn from the General Treasury to meet deficiencies was 5 , 265 , 475 . The constant and rapid extension of our postal service , particularly upon railways , and the improved facilities for the collection , transmission , distribution , and delivery of the mails which are constantly being provided account for the increased expenditures of this popular branch of the public service . The total number of post offices in operation on June 30 , 1873 , was 33 , 244 , a net increase of 1 , 381 over the number reported the preceding year . The number of Presidential offices was 1 , 363 , an increase of 163 during the year . The total length of railroad mail routes at the close of the year was 63 , 457 miles , an increase of 5 , 546 miles over the year 1872 . Fifty nine railway post office lines were in operation June 30 , 1873 , extending over 14 , 866 miles of railroad routes and performing an aggregate service of 34 , 925 miles daily . The number of letters exchanged with foreign countries was 27 , 459 , 185 , an increase of 3 , 096 , 685 over the previous year , and the postage thereon amounted to 2 , 021 , 310 . 86 . The total weight of correspondence exchanged in the mails with European countries exceeded 912 tons , an increase of 92 tons over the previous year . The total cost of the United States ocean steamship service , including 725 , 000 paid from special appropriations to subsidized lines of mail steamers , was 1 , 047 , 271 . 35 . New or additional postal conventions have been concluded with Sweden , Norway , Belgium , Germany , Canada , Newfoundland , and Japan , reducing postage rates on correspondence exchanged with those countries and further efforts have been made to conclude a satisfactory postal convention with France , but without success . I invite the favorable consideration of Congress to the suggestions and recommendations of the Postmaster General for an extension of the free delivery system in all cities having a population of not less than 10 , 000 for the prepayment of postage on newspapers and other printed matter of the second class for a uniform postage and limit of weight on miscellaneous matter for adjusting the compensation of all postmasters not appointed by the President , by the old method of commissions on the actual receipts of the office , instead of the present mode of fixing the salary in advance upon special returns and especially do I urge favorable action by Congress on the important recommendations of the Postmaster General for the establishment of United States postal savings depositories . Your attention is also again called to a consideration of the question of postal telegraphs and the arguments adduced in support thereof , in the hope that you may take such action in connection therewith as in your judgment will most contribute to the best interests of the country . DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICAffairs in Utah require your early and special attention . The Supreme Court of the United States , in the case of Clinton vs . Englebrecht , decided that the United States marshal of that Territory could not lawfully summon jurors for the district courts and those courts hold that the Territorial marshal can not lawfully perform that duty , because he is elected by the legislative assembly , and not appointed as provided for in the act organizing the Territory . All proceedings at law are practically abolished by these decisions , and there have been but few or no jury trials in the district courts of that Territory since the last session of Congress . Property is left without protection by the courts , and crimes go unpunished . To prevent anarchy there it is absolutely necessary that Congress provide the courts with some mode of obtaining jurors , and I recommend legislation to that end , and also that the probate courts of the Territory , now assuming to issue writs of injunction and habeas corpus and to try criminal cases and questions as to land titles , be denied all jurisdiction not possessed ordinarily by courts of that description . I have become impressed with the belief that the act approved March 2 , 1867 , entitled An act to establish a uniform system of bankruptcy throughout the United States , is productive of more evil than good at this time . Many considerations might be urged for its total repeal , but , if this is not considered advisable , I think it will not be seriously questioned that those portions of said act providing for what is called involuntary bankruptcy operate to increase the financial embarrassments of the country . Careful and prudent men very often become involved in debt in the transaction of their business , and though they may possess ample property , if it could be made available for that purpose , to meet all their liabilities , yet , on account of the extraordinary scarcity of money , they may be unable to meet all their pecuniary obligations as they become due , in consequence of which they are liable to be prostrated in their business by proceedings in bankruptcy at the instance of unrelenting creditors . People are now so easily alarmed as to monetary matters that the mere filing of a petition in bankruptcy by an unfriendly creditor will necessarily embarrass , and oftentimes accomplish the financial ruin , of a responsible business man . Those who otherwise might make lawful and just arrangements to relieve themselves from difficulties produced by the present stringency in money are prevented by their constant exposure to attack and disappointment by proceedings against them in bankruptcy , and , besides , the law is made use of in many cases by obdurate creditors to frighten or force debtors into a compliance with their wishes and into acts of injustice to other creditors and to themselves . I recommend that so much of said act as provides for involuntary bankruptcy on account of the suspension of payment be repealed . Your careful attention is invited to the subject of claims against the Government and to the facilities afforded by existing laws for their prosecution . Each of the Departments of State , Treasury , and War has demands for many millions of dollars upon its files , and they are rapidly accumulating . To these may be added those now pending before Congress , the Court of Claims , and the Southern Claims Commission , making in the aggregate an immense sum . Most of these grow out of the rebellion , and are intended to indemnify persons on both sides for their losses during the war and not a few of them are fabricated and supported by false testimony . Projects are on foot , it is believed , to induce Congress to provide for new classes of claims , and to revive old ones through the repeal or modification of the statute of limitations , by which they are now barred . I presume these schemes , if proposed , will be received with little favor by Congress , and I recommend that persons having claims against the United States cognizable by any tribunal or Department thereof be required to present them at an early day , and that legislation be directed as far as practicable to the defeat of unfounded and unjust demands upon the Government and I would suggest , as a means of preventing fraud , that witnesses be called upon to appear in person to testify before those tribunals having said claims before them for adjudication . Probably the largest saving to the National Treasury can be secured by timely legislation on these subjects of any of the economic measures that will be proposed . You will be advised of the operations of the Department of Justice by the report of the Attorney General , and I invite your attention to the amendments of existing laws suggested by him , with the view of reducing the expenses of that Department . DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOThe policy inaugurated toward the Indians at the beginning of the last Administration has been steadily pursued , and , I believe , with beneficial results . It will be continued with only such modifications as time and experience may demonstrate as necessary . With the encroachment of civilization upon the Indian reservations and hunting grounds , disturbances have taken place between the Indians and whites during the past year , and probably will continue to do so until each race appreciates that the other has rights which must be respected . The policy has been to collect the Indians as rapidly as possible on reservations , and as far as practicable within what is known as the Indian Territory , and to teach them the arts of civilization and self support . Where found off their reservations , and endangering the peace and safety of the whites , they have been punished , and will continue to be for like offenses . The Indian Territory south of Kansas and west of Arkansas is sufficient in area and agricultural resources to support all the Indians east of the Rocky Mountains . In time , no doubt , all of them , except a few who may elect to make their homes among white people , will be collected there . As a preparatory step for this consummation , I am now satisfied that a Territorial form of government should be given them , which will secure the treaty rights of the original settlers and protect their homesteads from alienation for a period of twenty years . The operations of the Patent Office are growing to such a magnitude and the accumulation of material is becoming so great that the necessity of more room is becoming more obvious day by day . I respectfully invite your attention to the reports of the Secretary of the Interior and Commissioner of Patents on this subject . The business of the General Land Office exhibits a material increase in all its branches during the last fiscal year . During that time there were disposed of out of the public lands 13 , 030 , 606 acres , being an amount greater by 1 , 165 , 631 acres than was disposed of during the preceding year . Of the amount disposed of , 1 , 626 , 266 acres were sold for cash , 214 , 940 acres were located with military land warrants , 3 , 793 , 612 acres were taken for homesteads , 653 , 446 acres were located with agricultural college scrip , 6 , 083 , 536 acres were certified by railroads , 76 , 576 acres were granted to wagon roads , 238 , 548 acres were approved to States as swamp lands , 138 , 681 acres were certified for agricultural colleges , common schools , universities , and seminaries , 190 , 775 acres were approved to States for internal improvements , and 14 , 222 acres were located with Indian scrip . The cash receipts during the same time were 3 , 408 , 515 . 50 , being 190 , 415 . 50 in excess of the receipts of the previous year . During the year 30 , 488 , 132 acres of public land were surveyed , an increase over the amount surveyed the previous year of 1 , 037 , 193 acres , and , added to the area previously surveyed , aggregates 616 , 554 , 895 acres which have been surveyed , leaving 1 , 218 , 443 , 505 acres of the public land still unsurveyed . The increased and steadily increasing facilities for reaching our unoccupied public domain and for the transportation of surplus products enlarge the available field for desirable homestead locations , thus stimulating settlement and extending year by year in a gradually increasing ratio the area of occupation and cultivation . The expressed desire of the representatives of a large colony of citizens of Russia to emigrate to this country , as is understood , with the consent of their Government , if certain concessions can be made to enable them to settle in a compact colony , is of great interest , as going to show the light in which our institutions are regarded by an industrious , intelligent , and wealthy people , desirous of enjoying civil and religious liberty and the acquisition of so large an immigration of citizens of a superior class would without doubt be of substantial benefit to the country . I invite attention to the suggestion of the Secretary of the Interior in this behalf . There was paid during the last fiscal year for pensions , including the expense of disbursement , 29 , 185 , 289 . 62 , being an amount less by 984 , 050 . 98 than was expended for the same purpose the preceding year . Although this statement of expenditures would indicate a material reduction in amount compared with the preceding year , it is believed that the changes in the pension laws at the last session of Congress will absorb that amount the current year . At the close of the last fiscal year there were on the pension rolls 99 , 804 invalid military pensioners and 112 , 088 widows , orphans , and dependent relatives of deceased soldiers , making a total of that class of 211 , 892 18 , 266 survivors of the War of 1812 and 5 , 058 widows of soldiers of that war pensioned under the act of Congress of February 14 , 1871 , making a total of that class of 23 , 319 1 , 480 invalid navy pensioners and 1 , 770 widows , orphans , and dependent relatives of deceased officers , sailors , and marines of the Navy , making a total of navy pensioners of 3 , 200 , and a grand total of pensioners of 311 classes of 238 , 411 , showing a net increase during the last fiscal year of 6 , 182 . During the last year the names of 16 , 405 pensioners were added to the rolls , and 10 , 223 names were dropped therefrom for various causes . The system adopted for the detection of frauds against the Government in the matter of pensions has been productive of satisfactory results , but legislation is needed to provide , if possible , against the perpetration of such frauds in future . The evidently increasing interest in the cause of education is a most encouraging feature in the general progress and prosperity of the country , and the Bureau of Education is earnest in its efforts to give proper direction to the new appliances and increased facilities which are being offered to aid the educators of the country in their great work . The Ninth Census has been completed , the report thereof published and distributed , and the working force of the Bureau disbanded . The Secretary of the Interior renews his recommendation for a census to be taken in 1875 , to which subject the attention of Congress is invited . The original suggestion in that behalf has met with the general approval of the country and even if it be not deemed advisable at present to provide for a regular quinquennial census , a census taken in 1875 , the report of which could be completed and published before the one hundredth anniversary of our national independence , would be especially interesting and valuable , as showing the progress of the country during the first century of our national existence . It is believed , however , that a regular census every five years would be of substantial benefit to the country , inasmuch as our growth hitherto has been so rapid that the results of the decennial census are necessarily unreliable as a basis of estimates for the latter years of a decennial period . DISTRICT OF COLUMBIUnder the very efficient management of the governor and the board of public works of this District the city of Washington is rapidly assuming the appearance of a capital of which the nation may well be proud . From being a most unsightly place three years ago , disagreeable to pass through in summer in consequence of the dust arising from unpaved streets , and almost impassable in the winter from the mud , it is now one of the most sightly cities in the country , and can boast of being the best paved . The work has been done systematically , the plans , grades , location of sewers , water and gas mains being determined upon before the work was commenced , thus securing permanency when completed . I question whether so much has ever been accomplished before in any American city for the same expenditures . The Government having large reservations in the city , and the nation at large having an interest in their capital , I recommend a liberal policy toward the District of Columbia , and that the Government should bear its just share of the expense of these improvements . Every citizen visiting the capital feels a pride in its growing beauty , and that he too is part owner in the investments made here . I would suggest to Congress the propriety of promoting the establishment in this District of an institution of learning , or university of the highest class , by the donation of lands . There is no place better suited for such an institution than the national capital . There is no other place in which every citizen is so directly interested . CIVIL SERVICE REFORIn three successive messages to Congress I have called attention to the subject of civil service reform . Action has been taken so far as to authorize the appointment of a board to devise rules governing methods of making appointments and promotions , but there never has been any action making these rules , or any rules , binding , or even entitled to observance , where persons desire the appointment of a friend or the removal of an official who may be disagreeable to them . To have any rules effective they must have the acquiescence of Congress as well as of the Executive . I commend , therefore , the subject to your attention , and suggest that a special committee of Congress might confer with the Civil Service Board during the present session for the purpose of devising such rules as can be maintained , and which will secure the services of honest and capable officials , and which will also protect them in a degree of independence while in office . Proper rules will protect Congress , as well as the Executive , from much needless persecution , and will prove of great value to the public at large . I would recommend for your favorable consideration the passage of an enabling act for the admission of Colorado as a State in the Union . It possesses all the elements of a prosperous State , agricultural and mineral , and , I believe , has a population now to justify such admission . In connection with this I would also recommend the encouragement of a canal for purposes of irrigation from the eastern slope of the Rocky Mountains to the Missouri River . As a rule I am opposed to further donations of public lands for internal improvements owned and controlled by private corporations , but in this instance I would make an exception . Between the Missouri River and the Rocky Mountains there is an arid belt of public land from 300 to 500 miles in width , perfectly valueless for the occupation of man , for the want of sufficient rain to secure the growth of any product . An irrigating canal would make productive a belt as wide as the supply of water could be made to spread over across this entire country , and would secure a cordon of settlements connecting the present population of the mountain and mining regions with that of the older States . All the land reclaimed would be clear gain . If alternate sections are retained by the Government , I would suggest that the retained sections be thrown open to entry under the homestead laws , or sold to actual settlers for a very low price . I renew my previous recommendation to Congress for general amnesty . The number engaged in the late rebellion yet laboring under disabilities is very small , but enough to keep up a constant irritation . No possible danger can accrue to the Government by restoring them to eligibility to hold office . I suggest for your consideration the enactment of a law to better secure the civil rights which freedom should secure , but has not effectually secured , to the enfranchised slave .<speech_sep>To the Senate of the United States I follow the example heretofore occasionally permitted of communicating in this mode my approval of the act to provide for and regulate the counting of votes for President and Vice President , and the decision of questions arising thereon , for the term commencing March 4 , 1877 , because of my appreciation of the imminent peril to the institutions of the country from which , in my judgment , the act affords a wise and constitutional means of escape . For the first time in the history of our country , under the Constitution as it now is , a dispute exists with regard to the result of the election of the Chief Magistrate of the nation . It is understood that upon the disposition of disputes touching the electoral votes cast at the late election by one or more of the States depends the question whether one or the other of the candidates for the Presidency is to be the lawful Chief Magistrate . The importance of having clearly ascertained , by a procedure regulated by law , which of the two citizens has been elected , and of having the right to this high office recognized and cheerfully agreed in by all the people of the Republic , can not be overestimated , and leads me to express to Congress and to the nation my great satisfaction at the adoption of a measure that affords an orderly means of decision of a gravely exciting question . While the history of our country in its earlier periods shows that the President of the Senate has counted the votes and declared their standing , our whole history shows that in no instance of doubt or dispute has he exercised the power of deciding , and that the two Houses of Congress have disposed of all such doubts and disputes , although in no instance hitherto have they been such that their decision could essentially have affected the result . For the first time the Government of the United States is now brought to meet the question as one vital to the result , and this under conditions not the best calculated to produce an agreement or to induce calm feeling in the several branches of the Government or among the people of the country . In a case where , as now , the result is involved , it is the highest duty of the lawmaking power to provide in advance a constitutional , orderly , and just method of executing the Constitution in this most interesting and critical of its provisions . The doing so , far from being a compromise of right , is an enforcement of right and an execution of powers conferred by the Constitution on Congress . I think that this orderly method has been secured by the bill , which , appealing to the Constitution and the law as the guide in ascertaining rights , provides a means of deciding questions of single returns through the direct action of Congress , and in respect to double returns by a tribunal of inquiry , whose decisions stand unless both Houses of Congress shall concur in determining otherwise , thus securing a definite disposition of all questions of dispute , in whatever aspect they may arise . With or without this law , as all of the States have voted , and as a tie vote is impossible , it must be that one of the two candidates has been elected and it would be deplorable to witness an irregular controversy as to which of the two should receive or which should continue to hold the office . In all periods of history controversies have arisen as to the succession or choice of the chiefs of states , and no party or citizens loving their country and its free institutions can sacrifice too much of mere feeling in preserving through the upright course of law their country from the smallest danger to its peace on such an occasion and it can not be impressed too firmly in the hearts of all the people that true liberty and real progress can exist only through a cheerful adherence to constitutional law . The bill purports to provide only for the settlement of questions arising from the recent elections . The fact that such questions can arise demonstrates the necessity , which I can not doubt will before long be supplied , of permanent general legislation to meet cases which have not been contemplated in the Constitution or laws of the country . The bill may not be perfect , and its provisions may not be such as would be best applicable to all future occasions , but it is calculated to meet the present condition of the question and of the country . The country is agitated . It needs and it desires peace and quiet and harmony between all parties and all sections . Its industries are arrested , labor unemployed , capital idle , and enterprise paralyzed by reason of the doubt and anxiety attending the uncertainty of a double claim to the Chief Magistracy of the nation . It wants to be assured that the result of the election will be accepted without resistance from the supporters of the disappointed candidate , and that its highest officer shall not hold his place with a questioned title of right . Believing that the bill will secure these ends , I give it my signature .<speech_sep>