My friends At this moment of sadness throughout most of the world , I want to talk with you about a number of subjects that directly affect the future of the United States . We are shocked by the almost incredible eyewitness stories that come to us , stories of what is happening at this moment to the civilian populations of Norway and Holland and Belgium and Luxembourg and France . I think it is right on this Sabbath evening that I should say a word in behalf of women and children and old men who need help immediate help in their present distress help from us across the seas , help from us who are still free to give it . Tonight over the once peaceful roads of Belgium and France millions are now moving , running from their homes to escape bombs and shells and fire and machine gunning , without shelter , and almost wholly without food . They stumble on , knowing not where the end of the road will be . I remind speak to you of these people because each one of you that is listening to me tonight has a way of helping them . The American Red Cross which that represents each of us , is rushing food and clothing and medical supplies to these destitute civilian millions . Please I beg you please give according to your means to your nearest Red Cross chapter , give as generously as you can . I ask this in the name of our common humanity . Let us sit down again , together again , you and to consider our own pressing problems that confront us . There are many among us who in the past closed their eyes to events abroad because they believed in utter good faith what some of their fellow Americans told them that what was taking place in Europe was none of our business that no matter what happened over there , the United States could always pursue its peaceful and unique course in the world . There are many among us who closed their eyes , from lack of interest or lack of knowledge honestly and sincerely thinking that the many hundreds of miles of salt water made the American Hemisphere so remote that the people of North and Central and South America could go on living in the midst of their vast resources without reference to , or danger from , other Continents of the world . There are some among us who were persuaded by minority groups that we could maintain our physical safety by retiring within our continental boundaries the Atlantic on the east , the Pacific on the west , Canada on the north and Mexico on the south . I illustrated the futility the impossibility of that idea in my Message to the Congress last week . Obviously , a defense policy based on that is merely to invite future attack . And , finally , there are a few among us who have deliberately and consciously closed their eyes because they were determined to be opposed to their government , its foreign policy and every other policy , to be partisan , and to believe that anything that the Government did was wholly wrong . To those who have closed their eyes for any of these many reasons , to those who would not admit the possibility of the approaching storm to all of them the past two weeks have meant the shattering of many illusions . They have lost the illusion that we are remote and isolated and , therefore , secure against the dangers from which no other land is free . In some quarters , with this rude awakening has come fear , fear bordering on panic . It is said that we are defenseless . It is whispered by some that , only by abandoning our freedom , our ideals , our way of life , can we build our defenses adequately , can we match the strength of the aggressors . I did not share those illusions . I do not share these fears . Today we are now more realistic . But let us not be calamity howlers and discount our strength . Let us have done with both fears and illusions . On this Sabbath evening , in our homes in the midst of our American families , let us calmly consider what we have done and what we must do . In the past two or three weeks all kinds of stories have been handed out to the American public about our lack of preparedness . It has even been charged that the money we have spent on our military and naval forces during the last few years has gone down the rat hole . I think that it is a matter of fairness to the nation that you hear the facts . Yes , we have spent large sums of money on the national defense . This money has been used to make our Army and Navy today the largest , the best equipped , and the best trained peace time military establishment in the whole history of this country . Let me tell you just a few of the many things accomplished during the past few years . I do not propose , I cannot to go into every detail . It is a known fact , however , that in 1933 , when this Administration came into office , the United States Navy had fallen in standing among the navies of the world , in power of ships and in efficiency , to a relatively low ebb . The relative fighting power on the Navy had been greatly diminished by failure to replace ships and equipment , which had become out of date . But between 1933 and this year , 1940 seven fiscal years your Government will have spent 1 , 487 , 000 , 000 a billion , four hundred eighty seven million dollars more than it spent on the Navy during the seven years before that preceded 1933 . What did we get for the money , money , incidentally , not included in the new defense appropriations only the money heretofore appropriated The fighting personnel of the Navy rose from 79 , 000 to 145 , 000 . During this period 215 ships for the fighting fleet have been laid down or commissioned , practically seven times the number in the preceding similar seven year period . Of these 215 ships we have commissioned 12 cruisers 63 destroyers 26 submarines 3 aircraft carriers 2 gunboats 7 auxiliaries and many smaller craft . And among the many ships now being built and paid for as we build them are 8 new battleships . Ship construction , of course , costs millions of dollars more in the United States than anywhere else in the world but it is a fact that we cannot have adequate navy defense for all American waters without ships ships that sail the surface of the ocean , ships that move under the surface and ships that move through the air . And , speaking of airplanes , airplanes that work with the Navy , in 1933 we had 1 , 127 of them , 1 , 127 useful aircraft , and today we have 2 , 892 on hand and on order . Of course , nearly all of the old planes of 1933 planes have been replaced by new planes because they became obsolete or worn out . The Navy is far stronger today than at any peace time period in the whole long history of the nation . In hitting power and in efficiency , I would even make the assertion that it is stronger today than it was during the World War . The Army of the United States In 1933 it consisted of 122 , 000 enlisted men . Now , in 1940 , that number has been practically doubled . The Army of 1933 had been given few new implements of war since 1919 , and had been compelled to draw on old reserve stocks left over from the World War . The net result of all this was that our Army by l933 had very greatly declined in its ratio of strength with the armies of Europe and of the Far East . That was the situation I found . But , since then , great changes have taken place . Between 1933 and 1940 these past seven fiscal years your Government will have spent 1 , 292 , 000 , 000 more than it spent on the Army the previous seven years . What did we get for this money The personnel of the Army , as I have said , has been almost doubled . And by the end of this year every existing unit of the present regular Army will be equipped with its complete requirements of modern weapons . Existing units of the National Guard will also be largely equipped with similar items . Here are some striking examples taken from a large number of them Since 1933 we have actually purchased 5 , 640 airplanes , including the most modern type of long range bombers and fast pursuit planes , though , of course , many of these which were delivered 4 and 5 and 6 or and 7 years ago have worn out through use and been scrapped . We must remember that these planes cost money a lot of it . For example , one modern four engine long range bombing plane costs 350 , 000 one modern interceptor pursuit plane costs 133 , 000 one medium bomber costs 160 , 000 . To go on In 1933 we had only 355 anti aircraft guns . We now have more than 1 , 700 modern anti craft guns of all types on hand or on order . And you ought to know that a three inch anti aircraft gun costs 40 , 000 without any of the fire control equipment that goes with it . In 1933 there were only 24 modern infantry mortars in the entire Army . We now have on hand and on order more than 1 , 600 . In 1933 we had only 48 modern tanks and armored cars today we have on hand and on order 1 , 700 . Each one of our heavier tanks costs 46 , 000 . There are many other items in which our progress since 1933 has been rapid . And the great proportion of this advance has been during the last two years consists of really modern equipment . For instance , in 1933 , on the personnel side we had 1 , 263 Army pilots . Today the Army alone has more than 3 , 200 of the best fighting flyers in the world , flyers who last year flew more than one million hours in combat training . This And that figure does not include the hundreds of splendid pilots in the National Guard and in the organized reserves . Within the past year the productive capacity of the aviation industry to produce military planes has been tremendously increased . In the past year the capacity more than doubled , but this that capacity today , however , is still inadequate . But the Government , working with industry is determined to increase this that capacity to meet our needs . We intend to harness the efficient machinery of these manufacturers to the Government s program of being able to get 50 , 000 planes a year . One additional word about aircraft , about which we read so much . Recent wars , including the current war in Europe , have demonstrated beyond doubt that fighting efficiency depends on unity of command , unity of control . In sea operations the airplane is just as much an integral part of the unity of operations as are the submarine , the destroyer and the battleship , and in land warfare the airplane is just as much a part of military operations as are the tank corps , the engineers , the artillery or the infantry itself . Therefore , the air forces should continue to be part of the Army and Navy . In line with my request the Congress , this week , is voting the largest appropriation ever asked by the Army or the Navy in peacetime , and the equipment and training provided by for them will be in addition to the figures I have given you . The world situation may so change that it will be necessary to reappraise our program at any time . And in such case I am confident that the Congress and the Chief Executive will work in harmony as a team work in harmony as they are doing today . I will not hesitate at any moment to ask for additional funds when they are required . In this era of swift , mechanized warfare , we all have to remember that what is modern today and up to date , what is efficient and practical , becomes obsolete and outworn tomorrow . Even while the production line turns out airplanes , new airplanes ones are being designed on the drafting table . Even as a cruiser slides down the launching ways , plans for improvement , plans for increased efficiency in the next model , are taking shape in the blueprints of designers . Every day s fighting in Europe , on land , on sea , and in the air , discloses constant changes in methods of warfare . We are constantly improving and redesigning , testing new weapons , learning the lessons of the immediate war , and seeking to produce in accordance with the latest that the brains on science can conceive . Yes , we are calling upon the resources , the efficiency and the ingenuity of the American manufacturers of war material of all kinds airplanes and tanks and guns and ships , and all the hundreds of products that go into this material . The Government of the United States itself manufactures few of the implements of war . Private industry will continue to be the source of most of this material , and private industry will have to be speeded up to produce it at the rate and efficiency called for by the needs of the times . I know that private business cannot be expected to make all of the capital investment required for expansions of plants and factories and personnel which this program calls for at once . It would be unfair to expect industrial corporations or their investors to do this , when there is a chance that a change in international affairs may stop or curtail future orders a year or two hence . Therefore , the Government of the United States stands ready to advance the necessary money to help provide for the enlargement of factories , the establishment of new plants , the employment of thousands of necessary workers , the development of new sources of supply for the hundreds of raw materials required , the development of quick mass transportation of supplies . And the details of all of this are now being worked out in Washington , day and night . We are calling on men now engaged in private industry to help us in carrying out this program and you will hear more of this in detail in the next few days . This does not mean that the men we call upon will be engaged in the actual production of this material . That will still have to be carried on in the plants and factories throughout the land . Private industry will have the responsibility of providing the best , speediest and most efficient mass production of which it is capable . The functions of the businessmen whose assistance we are calling upon will be to coordinate this program to see to it that all of the plants continue to operate at maximum speed and efficiency . Patriotic Americans of proven merit and of unquestioned ability in their special fields are coming to Washington to help the Government with their training , their experience and their capability . It is our purpose not only to speed up production but to increase the total facilities of the nation in such a way that they can be further enlarged to meet emergencies of the future . But as this program proceeds there are several things we must continue to watch and safeguard , things which are just as important to the sound defense of a nation as physical armament itself . While our Navy and our airplanes and our guns and our ships may be our first line of defense , it is still clear that way down at the bottom , underlying them all , giving them their strength , sustenance and power , are the spirit and morale of a free people . For that reason , we must make sure , in all that we do , that there be no breakdown or cancellation of any of the great social gains which we have made in these past years . We have carried on an offensive on a broad front against social and economic inequalities and abuses which had made our society weak . That offensive should not now be broken down by the pincers movement of those who would use the present needs of physical military defense to destroy it . There is nothing in our present emergency to justify making the workers of our nation toll for longer hours than now limited by statute . As more orders come in and as more work has to be done , tens of thousands of people , who are now unemployed , will , I believe , receive employment . There is nothing in our present emergency to justify a lowering of the standards of employment . Minimum wages should not be reduced . It is my hope , indeed , that the new speed up of production will cause many businesses which now pay below the minimum standards to bring their wages up . There is nothing in our present emergency to justify a breaking down of old age pensions or of unemployment insurance . I would rather see the systems extended to other groups who do not now enjoy them . There is nothing in our present emergency to justify a retreat from any of our social objectives from conservation of natural resources , assistance to agriculture , housing , and help to the underprivileged . Conversely , however , I am sure that responsible leaders will not permit some specialized group , which represents a minority of the total employees of a plant or an industry , to break up the continuity of employment of the majority of the employees . Let us remember that the policy and the laws that provide providing for collective bargaining are still in force . And I can assure you that labor will be adequately represented in Washington in this defense program . the carrying out of this program of defense . And one more point on this Also Our present emergency and a common sense of decency make it imperative that no new group of war millionaires shall come into being in this nation as a result of the struggles abroad . The American people will not relish the idea of any American citizen growing rich and fat in an emergency of blood and slaughter and human suffering . And , finally last of all , this emergency demands that the consumers of America be protected so that our general cost of living can be maintained at a reasonable level . We ought to avoid the spiral processes of the World War , the rising spiral of costs of all kinds . The soundest policy is for every employer in the country to help give useful employment to the millions who are unemployed . By giving to those millions an increased purchasing power , the prosperity of the whole country nation will rise to a much higher level . Today s threat to our national security is not a matter of military weapons alone . We know of new other methods , new methods of attack . The Trojan Horse . The Fifth Column that betrays a nation unprepared for treachery . Spies , saboteurs and traitors are the actors in this new strategy . With all of these we must and will deal vigorously . But there is an added technique for weakening a nation at its very roots , for disrupting the entire pattern of life of a people . And it is important that we understand it . The method is simple . It is , first , discord , a dissemination of discord . A group not too large a group that may be sectional or racial or political is encouraged to exploit their its prejudices through false slogans and emotional appeals . The aim of those who deliberately egg on these groups is to create confusion of counsel , public indecision , political paralysis and eventually , a state of panic . Sound national policies come to be viewed with a new and unreasoning skepticism , not through the wholesome political debates of honest and free men , but through the clever schemes of foreign agents . As a result of these new techniques , armament programs may be dangerously delayed . Singleness of national purpose may be undermined . Men can lose confidence in each other , and therefore lose confidence in the efficacy of their own united action . Faith and courage can yield to doubt and fear . The unity of the state is can be so sapped that its strength is destroyed . All this is no idle dream . It has happened time after time , in nation after nation , during here in the last two years . Fortunately , American men and women are not easy dupes . Campaigns of group hatred or class struggle have never made much headway among us , and are not making headway now . But new forces are being unleashed , deliberately planned propaganda to divide and weaken us in the face of danger as other nations have been weakened before . These dividing forces are I do not hesitate to call undiluted poison . They must not be allowed to spread in the New World as they have in the Old . Our moral , and our mental defenses must be raised up as never before against those who would cast a smoke screen across our vision . The development of our defense program makes it essential that each and every one of us , men and women , feel that we have some contribution to make toward the security of our country nation . At this time , when the world and the world includes our own American Hemisphere when the world is threatened by forces of destruction , it is my resolve and yours to build up our armed defenses . We shall build them to whatever heights the future may require . We shall rebuild them swiftly , as the methods of warfare swiftly change . For more than three centuries we Americans have been building on this continent a free society , a society in which the promise of the human spirit may find fulfillment . Commingled here are the blood and genius of all the peoples of the world who have sought this promise . We have built well . We are continuing our efforts to bring the blessings of a free society , of a free and productive economic system , to every family in the land . This is the promise of America . It is this that we must continue to build this that we must continue to defend . It is the task of our generation , yours and mine . But we build and defend not for our generation alone . We defend the foundations laid down by our fathers . We build a life for generations yet unborn . We defend and we build a way of life , not for America alone , but for all mankind . Ours is a high duty , a noble task . Day and night I pray for the restoration of peace in this mad world of ours . It is not necessary that the President ask the American people to pray in behalf of such a cause for I know you are praying with me . I am certain that out of the hearts of every man , woman and child in this land , in every waking minute , a supplication goes up to Almighty God that all of us beg that suffering and starving , that death and destruction may end and that peace may return to the world . In common affection for all mankind , your prayers join with mine that God will heal the wounds and the hearts of humanity .<speech_sep>Chief Justice , Vice President , my friends You will understand and , I believe , agree with my wish that the form of this inauguration be simple and its words brief . We Americans of today , together with our allies , are passing through a period of supreme test . It is a test of our courage of our resolve of our wisdom of our essential democracy . If we meet that test successfully and honorably we shall perform a service of historic importance which men and women and children will honor throughout all time . As I stand here today , having taken the solemn oath of office in the presence of my fellow countrymen in the presence of our God I know that it is America s purpose that we shall not fail . In the days and the years that are to come , we shall work for ajust and honorable peace , a durable peace , as today we work and fight for total victory in war . We can and we will achieve such a peace . We shall strive for perfection . We shall not achieve it immediately but we still shall strive . We may make mistakes but they must never be mistakes which result from faintness of heart or abandonment of moral principle . I remember that my old schoolmaster , Peabody , said in days that seemed to us then to be secure and untroubled , Things in life will not always run smoothly . Sometimes we will be rising toward the heights then all will seem to reverse itself and start downward . The great fact to remember is that the trend of civilization itself is forever upward that a line drawn through the middle of the peaks and the valleys of the centuries always has an upward trend . Our Constitution of 1787 was not a perfect instrument it is not perfect yet . But it provided a firm base upon which all manner of men , of all races and colors and creeds , could build our solid structure of democracy . Today , in this year of war , 1945 , we have learned lessons at a fearful cost and we shall profit by them . We have learned that we cannot live alone , at peace that our own well being is dependent on the well being of other Nations , far away . We have learned that we must live as men and not as ostriches , nor as dogs in the manger . We have learned to be citizens of the world , members of the human community . We have learned the simple truth , as Emerson said , that , The only way to have a friend is to be one . We can gain no lasting peace if we approach it with suspicion and mistrust or with fear . We can gain it only if we proceed with the understanding and the confidence and the courage which flow from conviction . The Almighty God has blessed our land in many ways . He has given our people stout hearts and strong arms with which to strike mighty blows for freedom and truth . He has given to our country a faith which has become the hope of all peoples in an anguished world . So we pray to Him now for the vision to see our way clearly to see the way that leads to a better life for ourselves and for all our fellow men and to the achievement of His will to peace on earth .<speech_sep>Governor Davey , Senator Bulkley , Chairman White and You the People of the Northwest Territory Long before 1788 there were white men here , spying out this land of Canaan . An intrepid outpost breed they were the scouts and the skirmishers of the great American migration . The sight of smoke from neighbors chimneys might have worried them . But Indians and redcoats did not . Long before 1788 , at Kaskaskia and Vincennes , with scant help from the Seaboard , they had held their beloved wilderness for themselves and for us with their own bare hands and their own long rifles . But their symbol is Vincennes , not Marietta . Here , with all honor to the scouts and the skirmishers , we celebrate the coming of a different type of men and women the first battalions of that organized army of occupation which transplanted from over the Alleghenies whole little civilizations that took root and grew . They were giving expression to a genius for organized colonization , carefully planned and ordered under law . The men who came here before 1788 came as Leif Ericson s men to Vineland , in a spirit all of adventure . But the men and women of the Ohio Company who came to Marietta came rather like the men and women of the Massachusetts Bay Company to Boston , an organized society , unafraid to meet temporary adventure , but serious in seeking permanent security for men and women and children and homes . Many of them were destined to push on but most came intending to stay . Such people may not be the first to conquer the earth , but they will always be the last to possess it . Right behind the men and women who established Marietta one hundred and fifty years ago moved that instrument of law and order and cooperation government . A representative of the national government entered Marietta to administer the Northwest Territory under the famous Northwest Ordinance . And what we are celebrating today is this establishment of the first civil government west of the original thirteen states . Three provisions of the Northwest Ordinance I always like to remember . It provided that no person demeaning himself in a peaceable and orderly manner shall ever be molested on account of his mode of worship or for religious sentiment in the said territory . It provided that religion , morality and knowledge being necessary to good government and the happiness of mankind , schools and means of education shall forever be encouraged . And it provided for the perpetual prohibition of slavery in the Territory . Free , educated , God fearing men and women that is what the thirteen states hoped the new West would exemplify . It has well fulfilled that hope . Every generation meets substantially the same problems under its own different set of circumstances . Anyone speculating on our great migration westward is struck with the human parallel between the driving force behind that migration and the driving force behind the great social exploration we are carrying on today . Most of the people who went out to Ohio in 1788 and who followed wave on wave for another hundred years went to improve their economic lot . In other words , they were following the same yearning for security which is driving us forward today . At the end of the wagon ruts there was something worth the physical risks . The standard of life in a log cabin amid fields still blackened with half burned stumps was not high , but it was certain . A family , or at most a township , could be a whole self sufficing economic system plenty of food to eat if a man would but reach out and shoot or cultivate it plenty of warm clothes if the women of the family were willing to spin always a tight roof over the family s head if the little community would respond to the call for a roof raising . Whatever he used was a man s own he had the solid joy of possession of owning his home and his means of livelihood . And if things did not pan out there was always an infinite self sufficiency beckoning further westward to new land , new game , new opportunity . Under such conditions there was so much to get done which men could not get done alone , that the frontiersmen naturally reached out to government as their greatest single instrument of cooperative self help with the aid of which they could get things done . To them the use of government was but another form of the cooperation of good neighbors . Government was an indispensable instrument of their daily lives , of the security of their women and their children and their homes and their opportunities . They looked on government not as a thing apart as a power over our people . They regarded it as a power of the people , as a democratic expression of organized self help like a frontier husking bee . There were worried legalists back in the seaboard towns who were sure it was unconstitutional for the Federal Government to help to put roads and railroads and canals through these new territories who were sure that the nation would never get back the money it was plowing into development of the natural and human resources of the Northwest . But Abraham Lincoln , who incarnated the spirit of the people who were actually living in the Northwest Territory , summed up their attitude when he said The legitimate object of government is to do for a community of people whatever they need to have done , but cannot do at all , or cannot do so well , for themselves , in their separate and individual capacities . Today , under new conditions , a whole nation , the critical thirteen states and all the West and South that has grown out of them , is on a mental migration , dissatisfied with old conditions , seeking like the little band that came to Marietta to create new conditions of security . And again the people see an ally in their own government . Many a man does not own his cabin any more his possessions are a bank deposit . Scarcely any man can call his neighbors to raise his roof any more he pays a contractor cash and has to have mortgage financing to find the cash . And if that financing is of the wrong kind or goes bad , he may need help to save his home from foreclosure . Once old age was safe because there was always something useful which men and women , no matter how old , could do to earn an honorable maintenance . That time is gone and some new kind of organized old age insurance has to be provided . In these perplexities the individual turns , as he has always turned , to the collective security of the willingness of his fellows to cooperate through the use of government to help him and each other . The spirit of the frontier husking bee is found today in carefully drafted statutes statutes insuring bank deposits statutes providing mortgage money for homes through H . A . statutes providing help through O . for those in danger of foreclosure . The cavalry captain who protected the log cabins of the Northwest is now supplanted by legislators , like Senator Bulkley , toiling over the drafting of such statutes and over the efficiency of government machinery to administer them so that such protection and help of government can be extended to the full . On a thousand fronts , government state and municipal as well as federal is playing the same role of the insurer of security for the average man , woman and child that the Army detachments played in the early days of the old Northwest Territory . When you think it through , at the bottom most of the great protective statutes of today are in essence mutual insurance companies , and our recent legislation is not a departure from but a return to the healthy practices of mutual self help of the early settlers of the Northwest . Let us not be afraid to help each other let us never forget that government is ourselves and not an alien power over us . The ultimate rulers of our democracy are not a President and Senators and Congressmen and Government officials but the voters of this country . I believe that the American people , not afraid of their own capacity to choose forward looking representatives to run their government , want the same cooperative security and have the same courage to achieve it , in 1938 , as in 1788 . I am sure they know that we shall always have a frontier of social and economic problems and that we must always move in to bring law and order to it . In that confidence I am pushing on . I am sure that the people of the Nation will push on with me .<speech_sep>It is three months since I have talked with the people of this country about our national problems but during this period many things have happened , and I am glad to say that the major part of them have greatly helped the well being of the average citizens . Because , in every step which your Government is taking we are thinking in terms of the average of you in the old words , the greatest good to the greatest number we , as reasonable people , cannot expect to bring definite benefits to every person or to every occupation or business , or industry or agriculture . In the same way , no reasonable person can expect that in this short space of time , during which new machinery had to be not only put to work , but first set up , that every locality in every one of the 48 states of the country could share equally and simultaneously in the trend to better times . The whole picture , however the average of the whole territory from coast to coast the average of the whole population of 120 , 000 , 000 people shows to any person willing to look , facts and action of which you and I can be proud . In the early spring of this year there were actually and proportionately more people out of work in this country than in any other nation in the world . Fair estimates showed 12 or 13 millions unemployed last March . Among those there were , of course , several millions who could be classed as normally unemployed people who worked occasionally when they felt like it , and others who preferred not to work at all . It seems , therefore , fair to say that there were about 10 millions of our citizens who earnestly , and in many cases hungrily , were seeking work and could not get it . Of these , in the short space of a few months , I am convinced that at least 4 millions have been given employment or , saying it another way , 40 percent of those seeking work have found it . That does not mean , my friends , that I am satisfied , or that you are satisfied that our work is ended . We have a long way to go but we are on the way . How are we constructing the edifice of recovery the temple which , when completed , will no longer be a temple of money changers or of beggars , but rather a temple dedicated to and maintained for a greater social justice , a greater welfare for America the habitation of a sound economic life We are building , stone by stone , the columns which will support that habitation . Those columns are many in number and though , for a moment the progress of one column may disturb the progress on the pillar next to it , the work on all of them must proceed without let or hindrance . We all know that immediate relief for the unemployed was the first essential of such a structure and that is why I speak first of the fact that three hundred thousand young men have been given employment and are being given employment all through this winter in the Civilian Conservation Corps Camps in almost every part of the Nation . So , too , we have , as you know , expended greater sums in cooperation with states and localities for work relief and home relief than ever before sums which during the coming winter cannot be lessened for the very simple reason that though several million people have gone back to work , the necessities of those who have not yet obtained work is more severe than at this time last year . Then we come to the relief that is being given to those who are in danger of losing their farms or their homes . New machinery had to be set up for farm credit and for home credit in every one of the thirty one hundred counties of the United States , and every day that passes is saving homes and farms to hundreds of families . I have publicly asked that foreclosures on farms and chattels and on homes be delayed until every mortgagor in the country shall have had full opportunity to take advantage of Federal credit . I make the further request which many of you know has already been made through the great Federal credit organizations that if there is any family in the United States about to lose its home or about to lose its chattels , that family should telegraph at once either to the Farm Credit Administration or the Home Owners Loan Corporation in Washington requesting their help . Two other great agencies are in full swing . The Reconstruction Finance Corporation continues to lend large sums to industry and finance with the definite objective of making easy the extending of credit to industry , commerce and finance . The program of public works in three months has advanced to this point Out of a total appropriated for public works of three billion three hundred million , one billion eight hundred million has already been allocated to Federal projects of all kinds and literally in every part of the United States and work on these is starting forward . In addition , three hundred millions have been allocated to public works to be carried out by states , municipalities and private organizations , such as those undertaking slum clearance . The balance of the public works money , nearly all of it intended for state or local projects , waits only on the presentation of proper projects by the states and localities themselves . Washington has the money and is waiting for the proper projects to which to allot it . Another pillar in the making is the Agricultural Adjustment Administration . I have been amazed by the extraordinary degree of cooperation given to the Government by the cotton farmers in the South , the wheat farmers of the West , the tobacco farmers of the Southeast , and I am confident that the corn hog farmers of the Middle West will come through in the same magnificent fashion . The problem we seek to solve had been steadily getting worse for twenty years , but during the last six months we have made more rapid progress than any nation has ever made in a like period of time . It is true that in July farm commodity prices had been pushed up higher than they are today , but that push came in part from pure speculation by people who could not tell you the difference between wheat and rye , by people who had never seen cotton growing , by people who did not know that hogs were fed on corn people who have no real interest in the farmer and his problems . In spite , however , of the speculative reaction from the speculative advance , it seems to be well established that during the course of the year 1933 the farmers of the United States will receive 33 percent more dollars for what they have produced than they received in the year 1932 . Put in another way , they will receive 400 in 1933 , where they received 300 the year before . That , remember , is for the average of the country , for I have reports that some sections are not any better off than they were a year ago . This applies among the major products , especially to cattle raising and the dairy industry . We are going after those problems as fast as we can . I do not hesitate to say , in the simplest , clearest language of which I am capable , that although the prices of many products of the farm have gone up and although many farm families are better off than they were last year , I am not satisfied either with the amount or the extent of the rise , and that it is definitely a part of our policy to increase the rise and to extend it to those products which have as yet felt no benefit . If we cannot do this one way we will do it another . Do it , we will . Standing beside the pillar of the farm the A . is the pillar of industry the R . Its object is to put industry and business workers into employment and to increase their purchasing power through increased wages . It has abolished child labor . It has eliminated the sweat shop . It has ended sixty cents a week paid in some mills and eighty cents a week paid in some mines . The measure of the growth of this pillar lies in the total figures of reemployment which I have already given you and in the fact that reemployment is continuing and not stopping . The secret of R . is cooperation . That cooperation has been voluntarily given through the signing of the blanket codes and through the signing of specific codes which already include all of the greater industries of the Nation . In the vast majority of cases , in the vast majority of localities the R . has been given support in unstinted measure . We know that there are chiselers . At the bottom of every case of criticism and obstruction we have found some selfish interest , some private axe to grind . Ninety percent of complaints come from misconception . For example , it has been said that R . has failed to raise the price of wheat and corn and hogs that R . has not loaned enough money for local public works . Of course , R . has nothing whatsoever to do with the price of farm products , nor with public works . It has to do only with industrial organization for economic planning to wipe out unfair practices and to create reemployment . Even in the field of business and industry , does not apply to the rural communities or to towns of under twenty five hundred population , except in so far as those towns contain factories or chain stores which come under a specific code . It is also true that among the chiselers , to whom I have referred , there are not only the big chiselers but also petty chiselers who seek to make undue profit on untrue statements . Let me cite to you the example of the salesman in a store in a large Eastern city who tried to justify the increase in the price of a cotton shirt from one dollar and a half to two dollars and a half by saying to the customer that it was due to the cotton processing tax . Actually in that shirt there was about one pound of cotton and the processing tax amounted to four and a quarter cents on that pound of cotton . At this point it is only fair that I should give credit to the sixty or seventy million people who live in the cities and larger towns of the Nation for their understanding and their willingness to go along with the payment of even these small processing taxes , though they know full well that the proportion of the processing taxes on cotton goods and on food products paid for by city dwellers goes one hundred per cent towards increasing the agricultural income of the farm dwellers of the land . The last pillar of which I speak is that of the money of the country in the banks of the country . There are two simple facts . First , the Federal Government is about to spend one billion dollars as an immediate loan on the frozen or non liquid assets of all banks closed since January 1 , 1933 , giving a liberal appraisal to those assets . This money will be in the hands of the depositors as quickly as it is humanly possible to get it out . Secondly , the Government Bank Deposit Insurance on all accounts up to 2500 goes into effect on January first . We are now engaged in seeing to it that on or before that date the banking capital structure will be built up by the Government to the point that the banks will be in sound condition when the insurance goes into effect . Finally , I repeat what I have said on many occasions , that ever since last March the definite policy of the Government has been to restore commodity price levels . The object has been the attainment of such a level as will enable agriculture and industry once more to give work to the unemployed . It has been to make possible the payment of public and private debts more nearly at the price level at which they were incurred . It has been gradually to restore a balance in the price structure so that farmers may exchange their products for the products of industry on a fairer exchange basis . It has been and is also the purpose to prevent prices from rising beyond the point necessary to attain these ends . The permanent welfare and security of every class of our people ultimately depends on our attainment of these purposes . Obviously , and because hundreds of different kinds of crops and industrial occupations in the huge territory that makes up this Nation are involved , we cannot reach the goal in only a few months . We may take one year or two years or three years . No one who considers the plain facts of our situation believes that commodity prices , especially agricultural prices , are high enough yet . Some people are putting the cart before the horse . They want a permanent revaluation of the dollar first . It is the Government s policy to restore the price level first . I would not know , and no one else could tell , just what the permanent valuation of the dollar will be . To guess at a permanent gold valuation now would certainly require later changes caused by later facts . When we have restored the price level , we shall seek to establish and maintain a dollar which will not change its purchasing and debt paying power during the succeeding generation . I said that in my message to the American delegation in London last July . And I say it now once more . Because of conditions in this country and because of events beyond our control in other parts of the world , it becomes increasingly important to develop and apply the further measures which may be necessary from time to time to control the gold value of our own dollar at home . Our dollar is now altogether too greatly influenced by the accidents of international trade , by the internal policies of other nations and by political disturbance in other continents . Therefore the United States must take firmly in its own hands the control of the gold value of our dollar . This is necessary in order to prevent dollar disturbances from swinging us away from our ultimate goal , namely , the continued recovery of our commodity prices . As a further effective means to this end , I am going to establish a Government market for gold in the United States . Therefore , under the clearly defined authority of existing law , I am authorizing the Reconstruction Finance Corporation to buy gold newly mined in the United States at prices to be determined from time to time after consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury and the President . Whenever necessary to the end in view , we shall also buy or sell gold in the world market . My aim in taking this step is to establish and maintain continuous control . This is a policy and not an expedient . It is not to be used merely to offset a temporary fall in prices . We are thus continuing to move towards a managed currency . You will recall the dire predictions made last spring by those who did not agree with our common policies of raising prices by direct means . What actually happened stood out in sharp contrast with those predictions . Government credit is high , prices have risen in part . Doubtless prophets of evil still exist in our midst . But Government credit will be maintained and a sound currency will accompany a rise in the American commodity price level . I have told you tonight the story of our steady but sure work in building our common recovery . In my promises to you both before and after March 4th , I made two things plain First , that I pledged no miracles and , second , that I would do my best . I thank you for your patience and your faith . Our troubles will not be over tomorrow , but we are on our way and we are headed in the right direction .<speech_sep>This dinner of the White House Correspondents Association is unique . It is the first one at which I have made a speech in all these eight years . It differs from the press conferences that you and I hold twice a week , for you cannot ask me any questions tonight and everything that I have to say is word for word on the record . For eight years you and I have been helping each other . I have been trying to keep you informed of the news of Washington , of the Nation , and of the world , from the point of view of the Presidency . You , more than you realize , have been giving me a great deal of information about what the people of this country are thinking and saying . In our press conferences , as at this dinner tonight , we include reporters representing papers and news agencies of many other lands . To most of them it is a matter of constant amazement that press conferences such as ours can exist in any Nation in the world . That is especially true in those lands where freedoms do not exist where the purposes of our democracy and the characteristics of our country and of our people have been seriously distorted . Such misunderstandings are not new . I remember that , a quarter of a century ago , in the early days of the first World War , the German Government received solemn assurances from their representatives in the United States that the people of America were disunited that they cared more for peace at any price than for the preservation of ideals and freedom that there would even be riots and revolutions in the United States if this Nation ever asserted its own interests . Let not dictators of Europe or Asia doubt our unanimity now . Before the present war broke out on September 1 , 1939 , I was more worried about the future than many people indeed , than most people . The record shows that I was not worried enough . That , however , is water over the dam . Do not let us waste time in reviewing the past , or fixing or dodging the blame for it . History cannot be rewritten by wishful thinking . We , the American people , are writing new history today . The big news story of this week is this The world has been told that we , as a united Nation , realize the danger that confronts us and that to meet that danger our democracy has gone into action . We know that although Prussian autocracy was bad enough in the first war , Nazism is far worse in this . Nazi forces are not seeking mere modifications in colonial maps or in minor European boundaries . They openly seek the destruction of all elective systems of government on every continent including our own they seek to establish systems of government based on the regimentation of all human beings by a handful of individual rulers who have seized power by force . Yes , these men and their hypnotized followers call this a new order . It is not new and it is not order . For order among Nations presupposes something enduring some system of justice under which individuals , over a long period of time , are willing to live . Humanity will never permanently accept a system imposed by conquest and based on slavery . These modern tyrants find it necessary to their plans to eliminate all democracies eliminate them one by one . The Nations of Europe , and indeed we ourselves , did not appreciate that purpose . We do now . The process of the elimination of the European Nations proceeded according to plan through 1939 and well into 1940 , until the schedule was shot to pieces by the unbeatable defenders of Britain . The enemies of democracy were wrong in their calculations for a very simple reason . They were wrong because they believed that democracy could not adjust itself to the terrible reality of a world at war . They believed that democracy , because of its profound respect for the rights of man , would never arm itself to fight . They believed that democracy , because of its will to live at peace with its neighbors , could not mobilize its energies even in its own defense . They know now that democracy can still remain democracy , and speak , and reach conclusions , and arm itself adequately for defense . From the bureaus of propaganda of the Axis powers came the confident prophecy that the conquest of our country would be an inside job a job accomplished not by overpowering invasion from without , but by disrupting confusion and disunion and moral disintegration from within . Those who believed that knew little of our history . America is not a country which can be confounded by the appeasers , the defeatists , the backstairs manufacturers of panic . It is a country that talks out its problems in the open , where any man can hear them . We have just now engaged in a great debate . It was not limited to the halls of Congress . It was argued in every newspaper , on every wave length , over every cracker barrel in all the land and it was finally settled and decided by the American people themselves . Yes , the decisions of our democracy may be slowly arrived at . But when that decision is made , it is proclaimed not with the voice of any one man but with the voice of one hundred and thirty millions . It is binding on us all . And the world is no longer left in doubt . This decision is the end of any attempts at appeasement in our land the end of urging us to get along with dictators the end of compromise with tyranny and the forces of oppression . And the urgency is now . We believe firmly that when our production output is in full swing , the democracies of the world will be able to prove that dictatorships cannot win . But , now , now , the time element is of supreme importance . Every plane , every other instrument of war , old and new , every instrument that we can spare now , we will send overseas because that is the common sense of strategy . The great task of this day , the deep duty that rests upon each and every one of us is to move products from the assembly lines of our factories to the battle lines of democracy Now We can have speed , we can have effectiveness , if we maintain our existing unity . We do not have and never will have the false unity of a people browbeaten by threats , misled by propaganda . Ours is a unity that is possible only among free men and women who recognize the truth and face reality with intelligence and courage . Today , at last today at long last ours is not a partial effort . It is a total effort and that is the only way to guarantee ultimate safety . Beginning a year ago , we started the erection of hundreds of plants we started the training of millions of men . Then , at the moment that the aid to democracies bill was passed , this week , we were ready to recommend the seven billion dollar appropriation on the basis of capacity production as now planned . The articles themselves cover the whole range of munitions of war and of the facilities for transporting them across the seas . The aid to democracies bill was agreed on by both houses of the Congress last Tuesday afternoon . I signed it one half hour later . Five minutes after that I approved a list of articles for immediate shipment and today Saturday night many of them are on their way . On Wednesday , I recommended an appropriation for new material to the extent of seven billion dollars and the Congress is making patriotic speed in making the money available . Here in Washington , we are thinking in terms of speed and speed now . And I hope that that watchword Speed , and speed now will find its way into every home in the Nation . We shall have to make sacrifices every one of us . The final extent of those sacrifices will depend on the speed with which we act Now I must tell you tonight in plain language what this undertaking means to you to you in your daily life . Whether you are in the armed services whether you are a steel worker or a stevedore a machinist or a housewife a farmer or a banker a storekeeper or a manufacturer to all of you it will mean sacrifice in behalf of your country and your liberties . Yes , you will feel the impact of this gigantic effort in your daily lives . You will feel it in a way that will cause , to you , many inconveniences . You will have to be content with lower profits , lower profits from business because obviously your taxes will be higher . You will have to work longer at your bench , or your plow , or your machine , or your desk . Let me make it clear that the Nation is calling for the sacrifice of some privileges , not for the sacrifice of fundamental rights . And most of us will do it willingly . That kind of sacrifice is for the common national protection and welfare for our defense against the most ruthless brutality in all history for the ultimate victory of a way of life now so violently menaced . A halfhearted effort on our part will lead to failure . This is no part time job . The concepts of business as usual , of normalcy , must be forgotten until the task is finished . Yes , it is an all out effort and nothing short of an all out effort will win . Therefore , we are dedicated , from here on , to a constantly increasing tempo of production a production greater than we now know or have ever known before a production that does not stop and should not pause . Tonight , I am appealing to the heart and to the mind of every man and every woman within our borders who loves liberty . I ask you to consider the needs of our Nation and this hour , to put aside all personal differences until the victory is won . The light of democracy must be kept burning . To the perpetuation of this light , each of us must do his own share . The single effort of one individual may seem very small . But there are 130 million individuals overhere . And there are many more millions in Britain and elsewhere bravely shielding the great flame of democracy from the blackout of barbarism . It is not enough for us merely to trim the wick , or polish the glass . The time has come when we must provide the fuel in ever increasing amounts to keep that flame alight . There will be no divisions of party or section or race or nationality or religion . There is not one among us who does not have a stake in the outcome of the effort in which we are now engaged . A few weeks ago I spoke of four freedoms freedom of speech and expression , freedom of every person to worship God in his own way , freedom from want , freedom from fear . They are the ultimate stake . They may not be immediately attainable throughout the world but humanity does move toward those glorious ideals through democratic processes . And if we fail if democracy is superseded by slavery then those four freedoms , or even the mention of them , will become forbidden things . Centuries will pass before they can be revived . By winning now , we strengthen the meaning of those freedoms , we increase the stature of mankind , we establish the dignity of human life . I have often thought that there is a vast difference between the word loyalty and the word obedience . Obedience can be obtained and enforced in a dictatorship by the use of threat or extortion or blackmail or it can be obtained by a failure on the part of government to tell the truth to its citizens . Loyalty is different . It springs from the mind that is given the facts , that retains ancient ideals and proceeds without coercion to give support to its own government . That is true in England and in Greece and in China and in the United States , today . And in many other countries millions of men and women are praying for the return of a day when they can give that kind of loyalty . Loyalty cannot be bought . Dollars alone will not win this war . Let us not delude ourselves as to that . Today , nearly a million and a half American citizens are hard at work in our armed forces . The spirit the determination of these men of our Army and Navy are worthy of the highest traditions of our country . No better men ever served under Washington or John Paul Jones or Grant or Lee or Pershing . That is a boast , I admit , but it is not an idle one . Upon the national will to sacrifice and to work depends the output of our industry and our agriculture . Upon that will depends the survival of the vital bridge across the ocean the bridge of ships that carry the arms and the food for those who are fighting the good fight . Upon that will depends our ability to aid other Nations which may determine to offer resistance . Upon that will may depend practical assistance to people now living in Nations that have been overrun , should they find the opportunity to strike back in an effort to regain their liberties and may that day come soon This will of the American people will not be frustrated , either by threats from powerful enemies abroad or by small , selfish groups or individuals at home . The determination of America must not and will not be obstructed by war profiteering . It must not be obstructed by unnecessary strikes of workers , by shortsighted management , or by the third danger deliberate sabotage . For , unless we win there will be no freedom for either management or labor . Wise labor leaders and wise business managers will realize how necessary it is to their own existence to make common sacrifice for this great common cause . There is no longer the slightest question or doubt that the American people recognize the extreme seriousness of the present situation . That is why they have demanded , and got , a policy of unqualified , immediate , all out aid for Britain , for Greece , for China , and for all the Governments in exile whose homelands are temporarily occupied by the aggressors . And from now on that aid will be increased and yet again increased until total victory has been won . The British are stronger than ever in the magnificent morale that has enabled them to endure all the dark days and the shattered nights of the past ten months . They have the full support and help of Canada , of the other Dominions , of the rest of their Empire , and the full aid and support of non British people throughout the world who still think in terms of the great freedoms . The British people are braced for invasion whenever such attempt may come tomorrow next week next month . In this historic crisis , Britain is blessed with a brilliant and great leader in Winston Churchill . But , knowing him , no one knows better than Churchill himself that it is not alone his stirring words and valiant deeds that give the British their superb morale . The essence of that morale is in the masses of plain people who are completely clear in their minds about the one essential fact that they would rather die as free men than live as slaves . These plain people civilians as well as soldiers and sailors and airmen women and girls as well as men and boys they are fighting in the front line of civilization at this moment , and they are holding that line with a fortitude that will forever be the pride and the inspiration of all free men on every continent , on every isle of the sea . The British people and their Grecian allies need ships . From America , they will get ships . They need planes . From America , they will get planes . From America they need food . From America , they will get food . They need tanks and guns and ammunition and supplies of all kinds . From America , they will get tanks and guns and ammunition and supplies of all kinds . China likewise expresses the magnificent will of millions of plain people to resist the dismemberment of their historic Nation . China , through the Generalissimo , Chiang Kai shek , asks our help . America has said that China shall have our help . And so our country is going to be what our people have proclaimed it must be the arsenal of democracy . Our country is going to play its full part . And when no , I did not say if , I said when dictatorships disintegrate and pray God that will be sooner than any of us now dares to hope then our country must continue to play its great part in the period of world reconstruction for the good of humanity . We believe that the rallying cry of the dictators , their boasting about a master race , will prove to be pure stuff and nonsense . There never has been , there is not now , and there never will be , any race of people on the earth fit to serve as masters over their fellow men . The world has no use for any Nation which , because of size or because of military might , asserts the right to goosestep to world power over the bodies of other Nations or other races . We believe that any nationality , no matter how small , has the inherent right to its own nationhood . We believe that the men and women of such Nations , no matter what size , can , through the processes of peace , serve themselves and serve the world by protecting the common man s security improve the standards of healthful living provide markets for manufacture and for agriculture . Through that kind of peaceful service every Nation can increase its happiness , banish the terrors of war , and abandon man s inhumanity to man . Never , in all our history , have Americans faced a job so well worth while . May it be said of us in the days to come that our children and our children s children rise up and call us blessed .<speech_sep>After the adjournment of the historical special session of the Congress five weeks ago I purposely refrained from addressing you for two very good reasons . First , I think that we all wanted the opportunity of a little quiet thought to examine and assimilate in a mental picture the crowding events of the hundred days which had been devoted to the starting of the wheels of the New Deal . Secondly , I wanted a few weeks in which to set up the new administrative organization and to see the first fruits of our careful planning . I think it will interest you if I set forth the fundamentals of this planning for national recovery and this I am very certain will make it abundantly clear to you that all of the proposals and all of the legislation since the fourth day of March have not been just a collection of haphazard schemes but rather the orderly component parts of a connected and logical whole . Long before Inauguration Day I became convinced that individual effort and local effort and even disjointed Federal effort had failed and of necessity would fail and , therefore , that a rounded leadership by the Federal Government had become a necessity both of theory and of fact . Such leadership , however , had its beginning in preserving and strengthening the credit of the United States Government , because without that no leadership was a possibility . For years the Government had not lived within its income . The immediate task was to bring our regular expenses within our revenues . That has been done . It may seem inconsistent for a government to cut down its regular expenses and at the same time to borrow and to spend billions for an emergency . But it is not inconsistent because a large portion of the emergency money has been paid out in the form of sound loans which will be repaid to the Treasury over a period of years and to cover the rest of the emergency money we have imposed taxes to pay the interest and the installments on that part of the debt . So you will see that we have kept our credit good . We have built a granite foundation in a period of confusion . That foundation of the Federal credit stands there broad and sure . It is the base of the whole recovery plan . Then came the part of the problem that concerned the credit of the individual citizens themselves . You and I know of the banking crisis and of the great danger to the savings of our people . On March sixth every national bank was closed . One month later 90 per cent of the deposits in the national banks had been made available to the depositors . Today only about 5 per cent of the deposits in national banks are still tied up . The condition relating to state banks , while not quite so good on a percentage basis , is shoving a steady reduction in the total of frozen deposits a result much better than we had expected three months ago . The problem of the credit of the individual was made more difficult because of another fact . The dollar was a different dollar from the one with which the average debt had been incurred . For this reason large numbers of people were actually losing possession of and title to their farms and homes . All of you know the financial steps which have been taken to correct this inequality . In addition the Home Loan Act , the Farm Loan Act and the Bankruptcy Act were passed . It was a vital necessity to restore purchasing power by reducing the debt and interest charges upon our people , but while we were helping people to save their credit it was at the same time absolutely essential to do something about the physical needs of hundreds of thousands who were in dire straits at that very moment . Municipal and State aid were being stretched to the limit . We appropriated half a billion dollars to supplement their efforts and in addition , as you know , we have put 300 , 000 young men into practical and useful work in our forests and to prevent flood and soil erosion . The wages they earn are going in greater part to the support of the nearly one million people who constitute their families . In this same classification we can properly place the great public works program running to a total of over Three Billion Dollars to be used for highways and ships and flood prevention and inland navigation and thousands of self sustaining state and municipal improvements . Two points should be made clear in the allotting and administration of these projects first , we are using the utmost care to choose labor creating quick acting , useful projects , avoiding the smell of the pork barrel and secondly , we are hoping that at least half of the money will come back to the government from projects which will pay for themselves over a period of years . Thus far I have spoken primarily of the foundation stones the measures that were necessary to re establish credit and to head people in the opposite direction by preventing distress and providing as much work as possible through governmental agencies . Now I come to the links which will build us a more lasting prosperity . I have said that we cannot attain that in a nation half boom and half broke . If all of our people have work and fair wages and fair profits , they can buy the products of their neighbors and business is good . But if you take away the wages and the profits of half of them , business is only half as good . It does not help much if the fortunate half is very prosperous the best way is for everybody to be reasonably prosperous . For many years the two great barriers to a normal prosperity have been low farm prices and the creeping paralysis of unemployment . These factors have cut the purchasing power of the country in half . I promised action . Congress did its part when it passed the farm and the industrial recovery acts . Today we are putting these two acts to work and they will work if people understand their plain objectives . First , the Farm Act It is based on the fact that the purchasing power of nearly half our population depends on adequate prices for farm products . We have been producing more of some crops than we consume or can sell in a depressed world market . The cure is not to produce so much . Without our help the farmers cannot get together and cut production , and the Farm Bill gives them a method of bringing their production down to a reasonable level and of obtaining reasonable prices for their crops . I have clearly stated that this method is in a sense experimental , but so far as we have gone we have reason to believe that it will produce good results . It is obvious that if we can greatly increase the purchasing power of the tens of millions of our people who make a living from farming and the distribution of farm crops , we will greatly increase the consumption of those goods which are turned out by industry . That brings me to the final step bringing back industry along sound lines . Last Autumn , on several occasions , I expressed my faith that we can make possible by democratic self discipline in industry general increases in wages and shortening of hours sufficient to enable industry to pay its own workers enough to let those workers buy and use the things that their labor produces . This can be done only if we permit and encourage cooperative action in industry because it is obvious that without united action a few selfish men in each competitive group will pay starvation wages and insist on long hours of work . Others in that group must either follow suit or close up shop . We have seen the result of action of that kind in the continuing descent into the economic Hell of the past four years . There is a clear way to reverse that process If all employers in each competitive group agree to pay their workers the same wages reasonable wages and require the same hours reasonable hours then higher wages and shorter hours will hurt no employer . Moreover , such action is better for the employer than unemployment and low wages , because it makes more buyers for his product . That is the simple idea which is the very heart of the Industrial Recovery Act . On the basis of this simple principle of everybody doing things together , we are starting out on this nationwide attack on unemployment . It will succeed if our people understand it in the big industries , in the little shops , in the great cities and in the small villages . There is nothing complicated about it and there is nothing particularly new in the principle . It goes back to the basic idea of society and of the nation itself that people acting in a group can accomplish things which no individual acting alone could even hope to bring about . Here is an example . In the Cotton Textile Code and in other agreements already signed , child labor has been abolished . That makes me personally happier than any other one thing with which I have been connected since I came to Washington . In the textile industry an industry which came to me spontaneously and with a splendid cooperation as soon as the recovery act was signed , child labor was an old evil . But no employer acting alone was able to wipe it out . If one employer tried it , or if one state tried it , the costs of operation rose so high that it was impossible to compete with the employers or states which had failed to act . The moment the Recovery Act was passed , this monstrous thing which neither opinion nor law could reach through years of effort went out in a flash . As a British editorial put it , we did more under a Code in one day than they in England had been able to do under the common law in eighty five years of effort . I use this incident , my friends , not to boast of what has already been done but to point the way to you for even greater cooperative efforts this Summer and Autumn . We are not going through another Winter like the last . I doubt if ever any people so bravely and cheerfully endured a season half so bitter . We cannot ask America to continue to face such needless hardships . It is time for courageous action , and the Recovery Bill gives us the means to conquer unemployment with exactly the same weapon that we have used to strike down Child Labor . The proposition is simply this If all employers will act together to shorten hours and raise wages we can put people back to work . No employer will suffer , because the relative level of competitive cost will advance by the same amount for all . But if any considerable group should lag or shirk , this great opportunity will pass us by and we will go into another desperate Winter . This must not happen . We have sent out to all employers an agreement which is the result of weeks of consultation . This agreement checks against the voluntary codes of nearly all the large industries which have already been submitted . This blanket agreement carries the unanimous approval of the three boards which I have appointed to advise in this , boards representing the great leaders in labor , in industry and in social service . The agreement has already brought a flood of approval from every State , and from so wide a cross section of the common calling of industry that I know it is fair for all . It is a plan deliberate , reasonable and just intended to put into effect at once the most important of the broad principles which are being established , industry by industry , through codes . Naturally , it takes a good deal of organizing and a great many hearings and many months , to get these codes perfected and signed , and we cannot wait for all of them to go through . The blanket agreements , however , which I am sending to every employer will start the wheels turning now , and not six months from now . There are , of course , men , a few of them who might thwart this great common purpose by seeking selfish advantage . There are adequate penalties in the law , but I am now asking the cooperation that comes from opinion and from conscience . These are the only instruments we shall use in this great summer offensive against unemployment . But we shall use them to the limit to protect the willing from the laggard and to make the plan succeed . In war , in the gloom of night attack , soldiers wear a bright badge on their shoulders to be sure that comrades do not fire on comrades . On that principle , those who cooperate in this program must know each other at a glance . That is why we have provided a badge of honor for this purpose , a simple design with a legend . We do our part , and I ask that all those who join with me shall display that badge prominently . It is essential to our purpose . Already all the great , basic industries have come forward willingly with proposed codes , and in these codes they accept the principles leading to mass reemployment . But , important as is this heartening demonstration , the richest field for results is among the small employers , those whose contribution will give new work for from one to ten people . These smaller employers are indeed a vital part of the backbone of the country , and the success of our plans lies largely in their hands . Already the telegrams and letters are pouring into the White House messages from employers who ask that their names be placed on this special Roll of Honor . They represent great corporations and companies , and partnerships and individuals . I ask that even before the dates set in the agreements which we have sent out , the employers of the country who have not already done so the big fellows and the little fellows shall at once write or telegraph to me personally at the White House , expressing their intention of going through with the plan . And it is my purpose to keep posted in the post office of every town , a Roll of Honor of all those who join with me . I want to take this occasion to say to the twenty four governors who are now in conference in San Francisco , that nothing thus far has helped in strengthening this great movement more than their resolutions adopted at the very outset of their meeting , giving this plan their instant and unanimous approval , and pledging to support it in their states . To the men and women whose lives have been darkened by the fact or the fear of unemployment , I am justified in saying a word of encouragement because the codes and the agreements already approved , or about to be passed upon , prove that the plan does raise wages , and that it does put people back to work . You can look on every employer who adopts the plan as one who is doing his part , and those employers deserve well of everyone who works for a living . It will be clear to you , as it is to me , that while the shirking employer may undersell his competitor , the saving he thus makes is made at the expense of his country s welfare . While we are making this great common effort there should be no discord and dispute . This is no time to cavil or to question the standard set by this universal agreement . It is time for patience and understanding and cooperation . The workers of this country have rights under this law which cannot be taken from them , and nobody will be permitted to whittle them away , but , on the other hand , no aggression is now necessary to attain those rights . The whole country will be united to get them for you . The principle that applies to the employers applies to the workers as well , and I ask you workers to cooperate in the same spirit . When Andrew Jackson , Old Hickory , died , someone asked , Will he go to Heaven and the answer was , He will if he wants to . If I am asked whether the American people will pull themselves out of this depression , I answer , They will if they want to . The essence of the plan is a universal limitation of hours of work per week for any individual by common consent , and a universal payment of wages above a minimum , also by common consent . I cannot guarantee the success of this nationwide plan , but the people of this country can guarantee its success . I have no faith in cure alls but I believe that we can greatly influence economic forces . I have no sympathy with the professional economists who insist that things must run their course and that human agencies can have no influence on economic ills . One reason is that I happen to know that professional economists have changed their definition of economic laws every five or ten years for a very long time , but I do have faith , and retain faith , in the strength of common purpose , and in the strength of unified action taken by the American people . That is why I am describing to you the simple purposes and the solid foundations upon which our program of recovery is built . That is why I am asking the employers of the Nation to sign this common covenant with me to sign it in the name of patriotism and humanity . That is why I am asking the workers to go along with us in a spirit of understanding and of helpfulness .<speech_sep>President Hoover , Chief Justice , my friends This is a day of national consecration . And I am certain that on this day my fellow Americans expect that on my induction into the Presidency I will address them with a candor and a decision which the present situation of our people impels . This is preeminently the time to speak the truth , the whole truth , frankly and boldly . Nor need we shrink from honestly facing conditions in our country today . This great Nation will endure as it has endured , will revive and will prosper . So , first of all , let me assert my firm belief that the only thing we have to fear is fear itself nameless , unreasoning , unjustified terror which paralyzes needed efforts to convert retreat into advance . In every dark hour of our national life a leadership of frankness and vigor has met with that understanding and support of the people themselves which is essential to victory . I am convinced that you will again give that support to leadership in these critical days . In such a spirit on my part and on yours we face our common difficulties . They concern , thank God , only material things . Values have shrunken to fantastic levels taxes have risen our ability to pay has fallen government of all kinds is faced by serious curtailment of income the means of exchange are frozen in the currents of trade the withered leaves of industrial enterprise lie on every side farmers find no markets for their produce the savings of many years in thousands of families are gone . More important , a host of unemployed citizens face the grim problem of existence , and an equally great number toil with little return . Only a foolish optimist can deny the dark realities of the moment . Yet our distress comes from no failure of substance . We are stricken by no plague of locusts . Compared with the perils which our forefathers conquered because they believed and were not afraid , we have still much to be thankful for . Nature still offers her bounty and human efforts have multiplied it . Plenty is at our doorstep , but a generous use of it languishes in the very sight of the supply . Primarily this is because rulers of the exchange of mankind s goods have failed through their own stubbornness and their own incompetence , have admitted their failure , and have abdicated . Practices of the unscrupulous money changers stand indicted in the court of public opinion , rejected by the hearts and minds of men . True they have tried , but their efforts have been cast in the pattern of an outworn tradition . Faced by failure of credit they have proposed only the lending of more money . Stripped of the lure of profit by which to induce our people to follow their false leadership , they have resorted to exhortations , pleading tearfully for restored confidence . They know only the rules of a generation of self seekers . They have no vision , and when there is no vision the people perish . The money changers have fled from their high seats in the temple of our civilization . We may now restore that temple to the ancient truths . The measure of the restoration lies in the extent to which we apply social values more noble than mere monetary profit . Happiness lies not in the mere possession of money it lies in the joy of achievement , in the thrill of creative effort . The joy and moral stimulation of work no longer must be forgotten in the mad chase of evanescent profits . These dark days will be worth all they cost us if they teach us that our true destiny is not to be ministered unto but to minister to ourselves and to our fellow men . Recognition of the falsity of material wealth as the standard of success goes hand in hand with the abandonment of the false belief that public office and high political position are to be valued only by the standards of pride of place and personal profit and there must be an end to a conduct in banking and in business which too often has given to a sacred trust the likeness of callous and selfish wrongdoing . Small wonder that confidence languishes , for it thrives only on honesty , on honor , on the sacredness of obligations , on faithful protection , on unselfish performance without them it cannot live . Restoration calls , however , not for changes in ethics alone . This Nation asks for action , and action now . Our greatest primary task is to put people to work . This is no unsolvable problem if we face it wisely and courageously . It can be accomplished in part by direct recruiting by the Government itself , treating the task as we would treat the emergency of a war , but at the same time , through this employment , accomplishing greatly needed projects to stimulate and reorganize the use of our natural resources . Hand in hand with this we must frankly recognize the overbalance of population in our industrial centers and , by engaging on a national scale in a redistribution , endeavor to provide a better use of the land for those best fitted for the land . The task can be helped by definite efforts to raise the values of agricultural products and with this the power to purchase the output of our cities . It can be helped by preventing realistically the tragedy of the growing loss through foreclosure of our small homes and our farms . It can be helped by insistence that the Federal , State , and local governments act forthwith on the demand that their cost be drastically reduced . It can be helped by the unifying of relief activities which today are often scattered , uneconomical , and unequal . It can be helped by national planning for and supervision of all forms of transportation and of communications and other utilities which have a definitely public character . There are many ways in which it can be helped , but it can never be helped merely by talking about it . We must act and act quickly . Finally , in our progress toward a resumption of work we require two safeguards against a return of the evils of the old order there must be a strict supervision of all banking and credits and investments , so that there will be an end to speculation with other people s money and there must be provision for an adequate but sound currency . These are the lines of attack . I shall presently urge upon a new Congress , in special session , detailed measures for their fulfillment , and I shall seek the immediate assistance of the several States . Through this program of action we address ourselves to putting our own national house in order and making income balance outgo . Our international trade relations , though vastly important , are in point of time and necessity secondary to the establishment of a sound national economy . I favor as a practical policy the putting of first things first . I shall spare no effort to restore world trade by international economic readjustment , but the emergency at home cannot wait on that accomplishment . The basic thought that guides these specific means of national recovery is not narrowly nationalistic . It is the insistence , as a first considerations , upon the interdependence of the various elements in and parts of the United States a recognition of the old and permanently important manifestation of the American spirit of the pioneer . It is the way to recovery . It is the immediate way . It is the strongest assurance that the recovery will endure . In the field of world policy I would dedicate this Nation to the policy of the good neighbor the neighbor who resolutely respects himself and , because he does so , respects the rights of others the neighbor who respects his obligations and respects the sanctity of his agreements in and with a world of neighbors . If I read the temper of our people correctly , we now realize as we have never realized before our interdependence on each other that we cannot merely take but we must give as well that if we are to go forward , we must move as a trained and loyal army willing to sacrifice for the good of a common discipline , because without such discipline no progress is made , no leadership becomes effective . We are , I know , ready and willing to submit our lives and property to such discipline , because it makes possible a leadership which aims at a larger good . This I propose to offer , pledging that the larger purposes will bind upon us all as a sacred obligation with a unity of duty hitherto evoked only in time of armed strife . With this pledge taken , I assume unhesitatingly the leadership of this great army of our people dedicated to a disciplined attack upon our common problems . Action in this image and to this end is feasible under the form of government which we have inherited from our ancestors . Our Constitution is so simple and practical that it is possible always to meet extraordinary needs by changes in emphasis and arrangement without loss of essential form . That is why our constitutional system has proved itself the most superbly enduring political mechanism the modern world has produced . It has met every stress of vast expansion of territory , of foreign wars , of bitter internal strife , of world relations . It is to be hoped that the normal balance of Executive and legislative authority may be wholly adequate to meet the unprecedented task before us . But it may be that an unprecedented demand and need for undelayed action may call for temporary departure from that normal balance of public procedure . I am prepared under my constitutional duty to recommend the measures that a stricken Nation in the midst of a stricken world may require . These measures , or such other measures as the Congress may build out of its experience and wisdom , I shall seek , within my constitutional authority , to bring to speedy adoption . But in the event that the Congress shall fail to take one of these two courses , and in the event that the national emergency is still critical , I shall not evade the clear course of duty that will then confront me . I shall ask the Congress for the one remaining instrument to meet the crisis broad Executive power to wage a war against the emergency , as great as the power that would be given to me if we were in fact invaded by a foreign foe . For the trust reposed in me I will return the courage and the devotion that befit the time . I can do no less . We face the arduous days that lie before us in the warm courage of national unity with the clear consciousness of seeking old and precious moral values with the clean satisfaction that comes from the stern performance of duty by old and young alike . We aim at the assurance of a rounded and permanent national life . We do not distrust the future of essential democracy . The people of the United States have not failed . In their need they have registered a mandate that they want direct , vigorous action . They have asked for discipline and direction under leadership . They have made me the present instrument of their wishes . In the spirit of the gift I take it . In this dedication of a Nation we humbly ask the blessing of God . May He protect each and every one of us . May He guide me in the days to come .<speech_sep>I am appealing to the people of America tonight to help in carrying out a task that is important to them and to their government . It is a part , but an essential part , of the greater task of finding jobs for willing workers who are idle through no fault of their own of finding more work for those who are insufficiently employed and of surveying the needs of workers and industry to see if we can find the basis of a better long range plan of re employment than we have now . Enforced idleness , embracing any considerable portion of our people , in a nation of such wealth and natural opportunity , is a paradox that challenges our ingenuity . Unemployment is one of the bitter and galling problems that now afflicts man kind . It has been with us , in a measure , since the beginning of our industrial era . It has been increased by the complexity of business and industry , and it has been made more acute by the depression . It has made necessary the expenditure of billions of dollars for relief and for publicly created work it has delayed the balancing of our national budget , and increased the tax burden of all our people . In addition to the problem faced by the national government our states and local governments have been sorely pressed to meet the increased load resulting from unemployment . It is a problem of every civilized nation not ours alone . It has been solved in some countries by starting huge armament programs but we Americans do not want to solve it that way . Nevertheless , as a nation we adopted the policy that no unemployed man or woman can be permitted to starve for lack of aid . That is still our policy . But the situation calls for a permanent cure and not just a temporary one . Unemployment relief is , of course , not the permanent cure . The permanent cure lies in finding suitable jobs in industry and agriculture for all willing workers . It involves cooperative effort and planning which will lead to the absorption of this unused man power in private industry . Such planning calls for facts which we do not now possess . Such planning applies not only to workers but to the employers in industry because it involves trying to get rid of what we call the peaks and valleys of employment and unemployment trying with the help of industry to plan against producing more goods one year than people can or will consume , and cutting production drastically the following year with the resulting lay off of hundreds of thousands of workers . That is a long and difficult problem to find the answer to and it may take many efforts in the coming years to find the right answer . But in the meantime , we need more facts . For several years varying estimates of the extent of unemployment have been made . Valuable as some of these estimates have been in providing us an approximation of the extent of unemployment , they have not provided us with sufficient factual data on which to base a comprehensive re employment program . During this coming week we are going to strive to get such facts . We are going to conduct a nation wide census of the unemployed and the partly unemployed and we are going to conduct it in the genuinely democratic American way . This is to be a wholly voluntary census . We are going to hold the mirror up to ourselves and try to get , not only a true and honest reflection of our present unemployment conditions , but facts which will help us to plan constructively for the future . Only in a nation whose people are alert to their own self interest , and alive to their responsibilities of citizenship , could such a voluntary plan succeed . I am confident that this great American undertaking will succeed . Every effort is being put forth to make all of our people understand and appreciate its significance and I am sure you will all give it your helpful aid as you have in previous efforts aimed at national improvement , and through which our people have shown their capacity for self government . On Tuesday next , November 16 , the Post Office Department , through its far flung and highly efficient organization , will undertake to deliver to every abode in the United States an Unemployment Report Card containing 14 simple questions . The Report Card which the postman will leave at your door on Tuesday is a double post card , larger than the customary card . It is addressed especially to those who are unemployed or partly unemployed , and who are able to work and are seeking work . This card contains a message to you from me carrying the assurance that if you will give me all the facts , it will help us in planning for the benefit of those who need and want work and do not now have it . This message calls upon the unemployed and everyone else in this land to help make this census complete , honest and accurate . If all unemployed and partly unemployed persons , who are able to work and who are seeking work , will conscientiously fill out these cards and mail them just as they are , without stamp or envelope , by or before midnight November 20 , our nation will have real facts upon which to base a sound re employment program . It is important for every unemployed person to understand that this report card is not an application for relief , nor registration for a job . This is purely and simply a fact seeking census . When you receive this card you will note that the 14 questions are designed to give this nation a wider basis of knowledge of its unemployment conditions than it has heretofore had . If our unemployed and partly unemployed wholeheartedly give the information sought in these 14 questions , we will know not only the extent of unemployment and partial unemployment , but we will know the geographical location of unemployment by states and communities . We will likewise be able to tell what age groups are most severely affected . But most important of all , we will know the work qualifications of the unemployed we will know in what industries they are suited to function , and we will be equipped to determine what future industrial trends are most likely to absorb these idle workers . I think it is necessary to emphasize that only those unemployed , or partly unemployed , who are able to work , and who are seeking work , should fill out these cards . All others may disregard them . But I appeal to all of you who are employed today to enlist as good neighbors to those who are unemployed in your communities and who may need help in filling out their cards properly and promptly . They may need the stimulus of your cooperation , to recognize the importance of this national effort to help them . I think this neighborly cooperation will be very helpful in dispelling from the minds of the unemployed all fear that the information sought in this census is to be used for any purpose other than helpfulness . I repeat the assurance to the unemployed that the information which you give on these report cards will in no sense be used against you , but so far as lies within my power will be employed for your own good and for the welfare of the nation . When we have ascertained the full facts of unemployment , we can extend the voluntary and neighborly character of this effort to the task of finding the solution to the perplexing problem . Its importance justifies a national approach , free from prejudice or partisanship and warrants the cooperative endeavors of business , of labor , of agriculture , and of government . I am confident that this nation of ours has the genius to reorder its affairs , and possesses the physical resources to make it possible for everyone , young or old , to enjoy the opportunity to work and earn . There is neither logic nor necessity for one third of our population to have less of the needs of modern life than make for decent living . Our national purchasing power is the soil from which comes all our prosperity . The steady flow of wages to our millions of workers is essential if the products of our industry and of our farmers are to be consumed . Our far sighted industrial leaders now recognize that a very substantial share of corporate earnings must be paid out in wages , or the soil from which these industries grow will soon become impoverished . Our farmers recognize that their largest customers are the workers for wages , and that farm markets cannot be maintained except through widespread purchasing power . This unemployment problem is , therefore , one in which every individual and every economic group has a direct interest . It is a problem whose discussion must be removed from the field of prejudice to the field of logic . We shall find the solution only when we have the facts , and having the facts , accept our mutual responsibilities . The inherent right to work is one of the elemental privileges of a free people . Continued failure to achieve that right and privilege by anyone who wants to work and needs work is a challenge to our civilization and to our security . Endowed , as our nation is , with abundant physical resources , and inspired as it should be with the high purpose to make those resources and opportunities available for the enjoyment of all , we approach this problem of reemployment with the real hope of finding a better answer than we have now . The Unemployment Census , as a sensible first step to a constructive re employment program ought to be a successful bit of national team work from which will come again that feeling of national solidarity which is the strength and the glory of the American people .<speech_sep>Since my annual message to the Congress on January fourth , last , I have not addressed the general public over the air . In the many weeks since that time the Congress has devoted itself to the arduous task of formulating legislation necessary to the country s welfare . It has made and is making distinct progress . Before I come to any of the specific measures , however , I want to leave in your minds one clear fact . The Administration and the Congress are not proceeding in any haphazard fashion in this task of government . Each of our steps has a definite relationship to every other step . The job of creating a program for the Nation s welfare is , in some respects , like the building of a ship . At different points on the coast where I often visit they build great seagoing ships . When one of these ships is under construction and the steel frames have been set in the keel , it is difficult for a person who does not know ships to tell how it will finally look when it is sailing the high seas . It may seem confused to some , but out of the multitude of detailed parts that go into the making of the structure the creation of a useful instrument for man ultimately comes . It is that way with the making of a national policy . The objective of the Nation has greatly changed in three years . Before that time individual self interest and group selfishness were paramount in public thinking . The general good was at a discount . Three years of hard thinking have changed the picture . More and more people , because of clearer thinking and a better understanding , are considering the whole rather than a mere part relating to one section or to one crop , or to one industry , or to an individual private occupation . That is a tremendous gain for the principles of democracy . The overwhelming majority of people in this country know how to sift the wheat from the chaff in what they hear and what they read . They know that the process of the constructive rebuilding of America cannot be done in a day or a year , but that it is being done in spite of the few who seek to confuse them and to profit by their confusion . Americans as a whole are feeling a lot better a lot more cheerful than for many , many years . The most difficult place in the world to get a clear open perspective of the country as a whole is Washington . I am reminded sometimes of what President Wilson once said So many people come to Washington who know things that are not so , and so few people who know anything about what the people of the United States are thinking about . That is why I occasionally leave this scene of action for a few days to go fishing or back home to Hyde Park , so that I can have a chance to think quietly about the country as a whole . To get away from the trees , as they say , and to look at the whole forest . This duty of seeing the country in a long range perspective is one which , in a very special manner , attaches to this office to which you have chosen me . Did you ever stop to think that there are , after all , only two positions in the Nation that are filled by the vote of all of the voters the President and the Vice President That makes it particularly necessary for the Vice President and for me to conceive of our duty toward the entire country . I speak , therefore , tonight , to and of the American people as a whole . My most immediate concern is in carrying out the purposes of the great work program just enacted by the Congress . Its first objective is to put men and women now on the relief rolls to work and , incidentally , to assist materially in our already unmistakable march toward recovery . I shall not confuse my discussion by a multitude of figures . So many figures are quoted to prove so many things . Sometimes it depends upon what paper you read and what broadcast you hear . Therefore , let us keep our minds on two or three simple , essential facts in connection with this problem of unemployment . It is true that while business and industry are definitely better our relief rolls are still too large . However , for the first time in five years the relief rolls have declined instead of increased during the winter months . They are still declining . The simple fact is that many million more people have private work today than two years ago today or one year ago today , and every day that passes offers more chances to work for those who want to work . In spite of the fact that unemployment remains a serious problem here as in every other nation , we have come to recognize the possibility and the necessity of certain helpful remedial measures . These measures are of two kinds . The first is to make provisions intended to relieve , to minimize , and to prevent future unemployment the second is to establish the practical means to help those who are unemployed in this present emergency . Our social security legislation is an attempt to answer the first of these questions . Our work relief program the second . The program for social security now pending before the Congress is a necessary part of the future unemployment policy of the government . While our present and projected expenditures for work relief are wholly within the reasonable limits of our national credit resources , it is obvious that we cannot continue to create governmental deficits for that purpose year after year . We must begin now to make provision for the future . That is why our social security program is an important part of the complete picture . It proposes , by means of old age pensions , to help those who have reached the age of retirement to give up their jobs and thus give to the younger generation greater opportunities for work and to give to all a feeling of security as they look toward old age . The unemployment insurance part of the legislation will not only help to guard the individual in future periods of lay off against dependence upon relief , but it will , by sustaining purchasing power , cushion the shock of economic distress . Another helpful feature of unemployment insurance is the incentive it will give to employers to plan more carefully in order that unemployment may be prevented by the stabilizing of employment itself . Provisions for social security , however , are protections for the future . Our responsibility for the immediate necessities of the unemployed has been met by the Congress through the most comprehensive work plan in the history of the Nation . Our problem is to put to work three and one half million employable persons now on the relief rolls . It is a problem quite as much for private industry as for the government . We are losing no time getting the government s vast work relief program underway , and we have every reason to believe that it should be in full swing by autumn . In directing it , I shall recognize six fundamental principles 1 The projects should be useful . 2 Projects shall be of a nature that a considerable proportion of the money spent will go into wages for labor . 3 Projects which promise ultimate return to the Federal Treasury of a considerable proportion of the costs will be sought . 4 Funds allotted for each project should be actually and promptly spent and not held over until later years . 5 In all cases projects must be of a character to give employment to those on the relief rolls . 6 Projects will be allocated to localities or relief areas in relation to the number of workers on relief rolls in those areas . I next want to make it clear exactly how we shall direct the work . 1 I have set up a Division of Applications and Information to which all proposals for the expenditure of money must go for preliminary study and consideration . 2 After the Division of Applications and Information has sifted those projects , they will be sent to an Allotment Division composed of representatives of the more important governmental agencies charged with carrying on work relief projects . The group will also include representatives of cities , and of labor , farming , banking and industry . This Allotment Division will consider all of the recommendations submitted to it and such projects as they approve will be next submitted to the President who under the Act is required to make final allocations . 3 The next step will be to notify the proper government agency in whose field the project falls , and also to notify another agency which I am creating a Progress Division . This Division will have the duty of coordinating the purchases of materials and supplies and of making certain that people who are employed will be taken from the relief rolls . It will also have the responsibility of determining work payments in various localities , of making full use of existing employment services and to assist people engaged in relief work to move as rapidly as possible back into private employment when such employment is available . Moreover , this Division will be charged with keeping projects moving on schedule . 4 I have felt it to be essentially wise and prudent to avoid , so far as possible , the creation of new governmental machinery for supervising this work . The National Government now has at least sixty different agencies with the staff and the experience and the competence necessary to carry on the two hundred and fifty or three hundred kinds of work that will be undertaken . These agencies , therefore , will simply be doing on a somewhat enlarged scale the same sort of things that they have been doing . This will make certain that the largest possible portion of the funds allotted will be spent for actually creating new work and not for building up expensive overhead organizations here in Washington . For many months preparations have been under way . The allotment of funds for desirable projects has already begun . The key men for the major responsibilities of this great task already have been selected . I well realize that the country is expecting before this year is out to see the dirt fly , as they say , in carrying on the work , and I assure my fellow citizens that no energy will be spared in using these funds effectively to make a major attack upon the problem of unemployment . Our responsibility is to all of the people in this country . This is a great national crusade to destroy enforced idleness which is an enemy of the human spirit generated by this depression . Our attack upon these enemies must be without stint and without discrimination . No sectional , no political distinctions can be permitted . It must , however , be recognized that when an enterprise of this character is extended over more than three thousand counties throughout the Nation , there may be occasional instances of inefficiency , bad management , or misuse of funds . When cases of this kind occur , there will be those , of course , who will try to tell you that the exceptional failure is characteristic of the entire endeavor . It should be remembered that in every big job there are some imperfections . There are chiselers in every walk of life there are those in every industry who are guilty of unfair practices , every profession has its black sheep , but long experience in government has taught me that the exceptional instances of wrong doing in government are probably less numerous than in almost every other line of endeavor . The most effective means of preventing such evils in this work relief program will be the eternal vigilance of the American people themselves . I call upon my fellow citizens everywhere to cooperate with me in making this the most efficient and the cleanest example of public enterprise the world has ever seen . It is time to provide a smashing answer for those cynical men who say that a democracy cannot be honest and efficient . If you will help , this can be done . therefore , hope you will watch the work in every corner of this Nation . Feel free to criticize . Tell me of instances where work can be done better , or where improper practices prevail . Neither you nor I want criticism conceived in a purely fault finding or partisan spirit , but I am jealous of the right of every citizen to call to the attention of his or her government examples of how the public money can be more effectively spent for the benefit of the American people . I now come , my friends , to a part of the remaining business before the Congress . It has under consideration many measures which provide for the rounding out of the program of economic and social reconstruction with which we have been concerned for two years . I can mention only a few of them tonight , but I do not want my mention of specific measures to be interpreted as lack of interest in or disapproval of many other important proposals that are pending . The National Industrial Recovery Act expires on the sixteenth of June . After careful consideration , I have asked the Congress to extend the life of this useful agency of government . As we have proceeded with the administration of this Act , we have found from time to time more and more useful ways of promoting its purposes . No reasonable person wants to abandon our present gains we must continue to protect children , to enforce minimum wages , to prevent excessive hours , to safeguard , define and enforce collective bargaining , and , while retaining fair competition , to eliminate so far as humanly possible , the kinds of unfair practices by selfish minorities which unfortunately did more than anything else to bring about the recent collapse of industries . There is likewise pending before the Congress legislation to provide for the elimination of unnecessary holding companies in the public utility field . I consider this legislation a positive recovery measure . Power production in this country is virtually back to the 1929 peak . The operating companies in the gas and electric utility field are by and large in good condition . But under holding company domination the utility industry has long been hopelessly at war within itself and with public sentiment . By far the greater part of the general decline in utility securities had occurred before I was inaugurated . The absentee management of unnecessary holding company control has lost touch with and has lost the sympathy of the communities it pretends to serve . Even more significantly , it has given the country as a whole an uneasy apprehension of over concentrated economic power . A business that loses the confidence of its customers and the good will of the public cannot long continue to be a good risk for the investor . This legislation will serve the investor by ending the conditions which have caused that lack of confidence and good will . It will put the public utility operating industry on a sound basis for the future , both in its public relations and in its internal relations . This legislation will not only in the long run result in providing lower electric and gas rates to the consumer , but it will protect the actual value and earning power of properties now owned by thousands of investors who have little protection under the old laws against what used to be called frenzied finance . It will not destroy values . Not only business recovery , but the general economic recovery of the Nation will be greatly stimulated by the enactment of legislation designed to improve the status of our transportation agencies . There is need for legislation providing for the regulation of interstate transportation by buses and trucks , to regulate transportation by water , new provisions for strengthening our Merchant Marine and air transport , measures for the strengthening of the Interstate Commerce Commission to enable it to carry out a rounded conception of the national transportation system in which the benefits of private ownership are retained , while the public stake in these important services is protected by the public s government . Finally , the reestablishment of public confidence in the banks of the Nation is one of the most hopeful results of our efforts as a Nation to reestablish public confidence in private banking . We all know that private banking actually exists by virtue of the permission of and regulation by the people as a whole , speaking through their government . Wise public policy , however , requires not only that banking be safe but that its resources be most fully utilized , in the economic life of the country . To this end it was decided more than twenty years ago that the government should assume the responsibility of providing a means by which the credit of the Nation might be controlled , not by a few private banking institutions , but by a body with public prestige and authority . The answer to this demand was the Federal Reserve System . Twenty years of experience with this system have justified the efforts made to create it , but these twenty years have shown by experience definite possibilities for improvement . Certain proposals made to amend the Federal Reserve Act deserve prompt and favorable action by the Congress . They are a minimum of wise readjustment of our Federal Reserve system in the light of past experience and present needs . These measures I have mentioned are , in large part , the program which under my constitutional duty I have recommended to the Congress . They are essential factors in a rounded program for national recovery . They contemplate the enrichment of our national life by a sound and rational ordering of its various elements and wise provisions for the protection of the weak against the strong . Never since my inauguration in March , 1933 , have I felt so unmistakably the atmosphere of recovery . But it is more than the recovery of the material basis of our individual lives . It is the recovery of confidence in our democratic processes and institutions . We have survived all of the arduous burdens and the threatening dangers of a great economic calamity . We have in the darkest moments of our national trials retained our faith in our own ability to master our destiny . Fear is vanishing and confidence is growing on every side , renewed faith in the vast possibilities of human beings to improve their material and spiritual status through the instrumentality of the democratic form of government . That faith is receiving its just reward . For that we can be thankful to the God who watches over America .<speech_sep>Five months have gone by since I last spoke to the people of the Nation about the state of the Nation . I had hoped to be able to defer this talk until next week because , as we all know , this is Holy Week . But what I want to say to you , the people of the country , is of such immediate need and relates so closely to the lives of human beings and the prevention of human suffering that I have felt that there should be no delay . In this decision I have been strengthened by the thought that by speaking tonight there may be greater peace of mind and that the hope of Easter may be more real at firesides everywhere , and therefore that it is not inappropriate to encourage peace when so many of us are thinking of the Prince of Peace . Five years ago we faced a very serious problem of economic and social recovery . For four and a half years that recovery proceeded apace . It is only in the past seven months that it has received a visible setback . And it is only within the past two months , as we have waited patiently to see whether the forces of business itself would counteract it , that it has become apparent that government itself can no longer safely fail to take aggressive government steps to meet it . This recession has not returned to us to the disasters and suffering of the beginning of 1933 . Your money in the bank is safe farmers are no longer in deep distress and have greater purchasing power dangers of security speculation have been minimized national income is almost 50 higher than it was in 1932 and government has an established and accepted responsibility for relief . But I know that many of you have lost your jobs or have seen your friends or members of your families lose their jobs , and I do not propose that the Government shall pretend not to see these things . I know that the effect of our present difficulties has been uneven that they have affected some groups and some localities seriously but that they have been scarcely felt in others . But I conceive the first duty of government is to protect the economic welfare of all the people in all sections and in all groups . I said in my Message opening the last session of the Congress that if private enterprise did not provide jobs this spring , government would take up the slack that I would not let the people down . We have all learned the lesson that government cannot afford to wait until it has lost the power to act . Therefore , my friends , I have sent a Message of far reaching importance to the Congress . I want to read to you tonight certain passages from that Message , and to talk with you about them . In that Message I analyzed the causes of the collapse of 1929 in these words over speculation in and over production of practically every article or instrument used by man . . . . millions of people , to be sure , had been put to work , but the products of their hands had exceeded the purchasing power of their pocketbooks . . . Under the inexorable law of supply and demand , supplies so overran demand which would pay that production was compelled to stop . Unemployment and closed factories resulted . Hence the tragic years from 1929 to 1933 . Today I pointed out to the Congress that the national income not the Government s income but the total of the income of all the individual citizens and families of the United States every farmer , every worker , every banker , every professional man and every person who lived on income derived from investments that national income had amounted , in the year 1929 , to eighty one billion dollars . By 1932 this had fallen to thirty eight billion dollars . Gradually , and up to a few months ago , it had risen to a total , an annual total of sixty eight billion dollars a pretty good come back from the low point . I then said this to the Congress But the very vigor of the recovery in both durable goods and consumers goods brought into the picture early in 1937 , a year ago , certain highly undesirable practices , which were in large part responsible for the economic decline which began in the later months of that year . Again production had outran outrun the ability to buy . There were many reasons for this over production . One of them was fear fear of war abroad , fear of inflation , fear of nation wide strikes . None of these fears have been borne out . . . . Production in many important lines of goods outran the ability of the public to purchase them , as I have said . For example , through the winter and spring of 1937 cotton factories in hundreds of cases were running on a three shift basis , piling up cotton goods in the factory , and goods in the hands of middle men and retailers . For example , also , automobile manufacturers not only turned out a normal increase of finished cars , but encouraged the normal increase to run into abnormal figures , using every known method to push their sales . This meant , of course , that the steel mills of the Nation ran on a twenty four hour basis , and the tire companies and cotton factories and glass factories and others speeded up to meet the same type of abnormally stimulated demand . Yes , the buying power of the Nation lagged behind . Thus by the autumn of 1937 , last autumn , the Nation again had stocks on hand which the consuming public could not buy because the purchasing power of the consuming public had not kept pace with the production . During the same period . . . the prices of many vital products had risen faster than was warranted . . . . . For example , copper which undoubtedly can be produced at a profit in this country for from ten to twelve cents a pound was pushed up and up to seventeen cents a pound . The price of steel products of many kinds was increased far more than was justified by the increased wages of steel workers . In the case of many commodities the price to the consumer was raised well above the inflationary boom prices of 1929 . In many lines of goods and materials , prices got so high in the summer of 1937 that buyers and builders ceased to buy or to build . . . . the economic process of getting out the raw materials , putting them through the manufacturing and finishing processes , selling them to the retailers , selling them to the consumer , and finally using them , got completely out of balance . . . . The laying off of workers came upon us last autumn and has been continuing at such a pace ever since that all of us , Government and banking and business and workers , and those faced with destitution , recognize the need for action . All of this I said to the Congress today and I repeat it to you , the people of the country tonight . I went on to point out to the Senate and the House of Representatives that all the energies of government and business must be directed to increasing the national income , to putting more people into private jobs , to giving security and a feeling of security to all people in all walks of life . I am constantly thinking of all our people unemployed and employed alike of their human problems , their human problems of food and clothing and homes and education and health and old age . You and I agree that security is our greatest need the chance to work , the opportunity of making a reasonable profit in our business whether it be a very small business or a larger one the possibility of selling our farm products for enough money for our families to live on decently . I know these are the things that decide the well being of all our people . Therefore , I am determined to do all in my power to help you attain that security and because I know that the people themselves have a deep conviction that secure prosperity of that kind cannot be a lasting one except on a basis of business fair business dealing and a basis where all from the top to the bottom share in the prosperity . I repeated to the Congress today that neither it nor the Chief Executive can afford to weaken or destroy great reforms which , during the past five years , have been effected on behalf of the American people . In our rehabilitation of the banking structure and of agriculture , in our provisions for adequate and cheaper credit for all types of business , in our acceptance of national responsibility for unemployment relief , in our strengthening of the credit of state and local government , in our encouragement of housing , and slum clearance and home ownership , in our supervision of stock exchanges and public utility holding companies and the issuance of new securities , in our provision for social security itself , the electorate of America wants no backward steps taken . We have recognized the right of labor to free organization , to collective bargaining and machinery for the handling of labor relations is now in existence . The principles are established even though we can all admit that , through the evolution of time , administration and practices can be improved . Such improvement can come about most quickly and most peacefully through sincere efforts to understand and assist on the part of labor leaders and employers alike . The never ceasing evolution of human society will doubtless bring forth new problems which will require new adjustments . Our immediate task is to consolidate and maintain the gains we have achieved . In this situation there is no reason and no occasion for any American to allow his fears to be aroused or his energy and enterprise to be paralyzed by doubt or uncertainty . I came to the conclusion that the present day problem calls for action both by the Government and by the people , that we suffer primarily from a failure of consumer demand because of lack of buying power . Therefore it is up to us to create an economic upturn . How and where can and should the Government help to start an upward spiral economic upturn I went on in my Message today to propose three groups of measures and I will summarize my recommendations . First , I asked for certain appropriations which are intended to keep the Government expenditures for work relief and similar purposes during the coming fiscal year that begins on the first of July , keep that going at the same rate of expenditure as at present . That includes additional money for the Works Progress Administration additional funds for the Farm Security Administration additional allotments for the National Youth Administration , and more money for the Civilian Conservation Corps , in order that it can maintain the existing number of camps now in operation . These appropriations , made necessary by increased unemployment , will cost about a billion and a quarter dollars more than the estimates which I sent to the Congress on the third of January last . Second , I told the Congress that the Administration proposes to make additional bank reserves available for the credit needs of the country . About one billion four hundred million dollars of gold now in the Treasury will be used to pay these additional expenses of the Government , and three quarters of a billion dollars of additional credit will be made available to the banks by reducing the reserves now required by the Federal Reserve Board . These two steps taking care of relief needs and adding to bank credits are in our best judgment insufficient by themselves to start the Nation on a sustained upward movement . Therefore , I came to the third kind of Government action which I consider to be vital . I said to the Congress You and I cannot afford to equip ourselves with two rounds of ammunition where three rounds are necessary . If we stop at relief and credit , we may find ourselves without ammunition before the enemy is routed . If we are fully equipped with the third round of ammunition , we stand to win the battle against adversity . This third proposal is to make definite additions to the purchasing power of the Nation by providing new work over and above the continuing of the old work . First , to enable the United States Housing Authority to undertake the immediate construction of about three hundred million dollars worth of additional slum clearance projects . Second , to renew a public works program by starting as quickly as possible about one billion dollars worth of needed permanent public improvements in our states , and their counties and cities . Third , to add one hundred million dollars to the estimate for Federal aid highways in excess of the amount that I recommended in January . Fourth , to add thirty seven million dollars over and above the former estimate of sixty three million for flood control and reclamation . Fifth , to add twenty five million dollars additional for Federal buildings in various parts of the country . In recommending this program I am thinking not only of the immediate economic needs of the people of the Nation , but also of their personal liberties the most precious possession of all Americans . I am thinking of our democracy . I am thinking of the recent trend in other parts of the world away from the democratic ideal . Democracy has disappeared in several other great nations disappeared not because the people of those nations disliked democracy , but because they had grown tired of unemployment and insecurity , of seeing their children hungry while they sat helpless in the face of government confusion , government weakness , weakness through lack of leadership in government . Finally , in desperation , they chose to sacrifice liberty in the hope of getting something to eat . We in America know that our own democratic institutions can be preserved and made to work . But in order to preserve them we need to act together , to meet the problems of the Nation boldly , and to prove that the practical operation of democratic government is equal to the task of protecting the security of the people . Not only our future economic soundness but the very soundness of our democratic institutions depends on the determination of our Government to give employment to idle men . The people of America are in agreement in defending their liberties at any cost , and the first line of that defense lies in the protection of economic security . Your Government , seeking to protect democracy , must prove that Government is stronger than the forces of business depression . History proves that dictatorships do not grow out of strong and successful governments but out of weak and helpless governments . If by democratic methods people get a government strong enough to protect them from fear and starvation , their democracy succeeds , but if they do not , they grow impatient . Therefore , the only sure bulwark of continuing liberty is a government strong enough to protect the interests of the people , and a people strong enough and well enough informed to maintain its sovereign control over its government . We are a rich Nation we can afford to pay for security and prosperity without having to sacrifice our liberties into the bargain . In the first century of our republic we were short of capital , short of workers and short of industrial production , but we were rich , very rich in free land , and free timber and free mineral wealth . The Federal Government of those days rightly assumed the duty of promoting business and relieving depression by giving subsidies of land and other resources . Thus , from our earliest days we have had a tradition of substantial government help to our system of private enterprise . But today the Government no longer has vast tracts of rich land to give away and we have discovered , too , that we must spend large sums of money to conserve our land from further erosion and our forests from further depletion . The situation is also very different from the old days , because now we have plenty of capital , banks and insurance companies loaded with idle money plenty of industrial productive capacity and many millions of workers looking for jobs . It is following tradition as well as necessity , if Government strives to put idle money and idle men to work , to increase our public wealth and to build up the health and strength of the people to help our system of private enterprise to function again . It is going to cost something to get out of this recession this way but the profit of getting out of it will pay for the cost several times over . Lost working time is lost money . Every day that a workman is unemployed , or a machine is unused , or a business organization is marking time , it is a loss to the Nation . Because of idle men and idle machines this Nation lost one hundred billion dollars between 1929 and the Spring of 1933 , in less than four years . This year you , the people of this country , are making about twelve billion dollars less than you were last year . If you think back to the experiences of the early years of this Administration you will remember the doubts and fears expressed about the rising expenses of Government . But to the surprise of the doubters , as we proceeded to carry on the program which included Public Works and Work Relief , the country grew richer instead of poorer . It is worthwhile to remember that the annual national people s income was thirty billion dollars more last year in 1937 than it was in 1932 . It is true that the national debt increased sixteen billion dollars , but remember that in that increase must be included several billion dollars worth of assets which eventually will reduce that debt and that many billion dollars of permanent public improvements schools , roads , bridges , tunnels , public buildings , parks and a host of other things meet your eye in every one of the thirty one hundred counties in the United States . No doubt you will be told that the Government spending program of the past five years did not cause the increase in our national income . They will tell you that business revived because of private spending and investment . That is true in part , for the Government spent only a small part of the total . But that Government spending acted as a trigger , a trigger to set off private activity . That is why the total addition to our national production and national income has been so much greater than the contribution of the Government itself . In pursuance of that thought I said to the Congress today I want to make it clear that we do not believe that we can get an adequate rise in national income merely by investing , and lending or spending public funds . It is essential in our economy that private funds must be put to work and all of us recognize that such funds are entitled to a fair profit . As national income rises , let us not forget that Government expenditures will go down and Government tax receipts will go up . The Government contribution of land that we once made to business was the land of all the people . And the Government contribution of money which we now make to business ultimately comes out of the labor of all the people . It is , therefore , only sound morality , as well as a sound distribution of buying power , that the benefits of the prosperity coming from this use of the money of all the people ought to be distributed among all the people the people at the bottom as well as the people at the top . Consequently , I am again expressing my hope that the Congress will enact at this session a wage and hour bill putting a floor under industrial wages and a limit on working hours to ensure a better distribution of our prosperity , a better distribution of available work , and a sounder distribution of buying power . You may get all kinds of impressions in regard to the total cost of this new program , or in regard to the amount that will be added to the net national debt . It is a big program . Last autumn in a sincere effort to bring Government expenditures and Government income into closer balance , the Budget I worked out called for sharp de creases in Government spending during the coming year . But , in the light of present conditions , conditions of today , those estimates turned out to have been far too low . This new program adds two billion and sixty two million dollars to direct Treasury expenditures and another nine hundred and fifty million dollars to Government loans the latter sum , because they are loans , will come back to the Treasury in the future . The net effect on the debt of the Government is this between now and July 1 , 1939 fifteen months away the Treasury will have to raise less than a billion and a half dollars of new money . Such an addition to the net debt of the United States need not give concern to any citizen , for it will return to the people of the United States many times over in increased buying power and eventually in much greater Government tax receipts because of the increase in the citizen income . What I said to the Congress today in the close of my message I repeat to you now . Let us unanimously recognize the fact that the Federal debt , whether it be twenty five billions or forty billions , can only be paid if the Nation obtains a vastly increased citizen income . I repeat that if this citizen income can be raised to eighty billion dollars a year the national Government and the overwhelming majority of state and local governments will be definitely out of the red . The higher the national income goes the faster will we be able to reduce the total of Federal and state and local debts . Viewed from every angle , today s purchasing power the citizens income of today is not at this time sufficient to drive the economic system of America at higher speed . Responsibility of Government requires us at this time to supplement the normal processes and in so supplementing them to make sure that the addition is adequate . We must start again on a long steady upward incline in national income . . . . And in that process , which I believe is ready to start , let us avoid the pitfalls of the past the overproduction , the over speculation , and indeed all the extremes which we did not succeed in avoiding in 1929 . In all of this , Government cannot and should not act alone . Business must help . And I am sure business will help . We need more than the materials of recovery . We need a united national will . We need to recognize nationally that the demands of no group , however just , can be satisfied unless that group is prepared to share in finding a way to produce the income from which they and all other groups can be paid . . . You , as the Congress , as the President , must by virtue of our offices , seek the national good by preserving the balance between all groups and all sections . We have at our disposal the national resources , the money , the skill of hand and head to raise our economic level our citizens income . Our capacity is limited only by our ability to work together . What is needed is the will . The time has come to bring that will into action with every driving force at our command . And I am determined to do my share . . . . . . Certain positive requirements seem to me to accompany the will if we have that will . There is placed on all of us the duty of self restraint . That is the discipline of a democracy . Every patriotic citizen must say to himself or herself , that immoderate statement , appeals to prejudice , the creation of unkindness , are offenses not against an individual or individuals , but offenses against the whole population of the United States . . . Use of power by any group , however situated , to force its interest or to use its strategic position in order to receive more from the common fund than its contribution to the common fund justifies , is an attack against and not an aid to our national life . Self restraint implies restraint by articulate public opinion , trained to distinguish fact from falsehood , trained to believe that bitterness is never a useful instrument in public affairs . There can be no dictatorship by an individual or by a group in this Nation , save through division fostered by hate . Such division there must never be . And finally I should like to say a personal word to you . I never forget that I live in a house owned by all the American people and that I have been given their trust . I try always to remember that their deepest problems are human . I constantly talk with those who come to tell me their own points of view with those who manage the great industries and financial institutions of the country with those who represent the farmer and the worker and often , very often with average citizens without high position who come to this house . And constantly I seek to look beyond the doors of the White House , beyond the officialdom of the National Capital , into the hopes and fears of men and women in their homes . I have travelled the country over many times . My friends , my enemies , my daily mail bring to me reports of what you are thinking and hoping . I want to be sure that neither battles nor burdens of office shall ever blind me to an intimate knowledge of the way the American people want to live and the simple purposes for which they put me here . In these great problems of government I try not to forget that what really counts at the bottom of it all is that the men and women willing to work can have a decent job , a decent job to take care of themselves and their homes and their children adequately that the farmer , the factory worker , toe storekeeper , the gas station man , the manufacturer , the merchant big and small the banker who takes pride in the help that he can give to the building of his community that all of these can be sure of a reasonable profit and safety for the earnings that they make not for today nor tomorrow alone , but as far ahead as they can see . I can hear your unspoken wonder as to where we are headed in this troubled world . I cannot expect all of the people to understand all of the people s problems but it is my job to try to understand all of the problems . I always try to remember that reconciling differences cannot satisfy everyone completely . Because I do not expect too much , I am not disappointed . But I know that I must never give up that I must never let the greater interest of all the people down , merely because that might be for the moment the easiest personal way out . I believe that we have been right in the course we have charted . To abandon our purpose of building a greater , a more stable and a more tolerant America would be to miss the tide and perhaps to miss the port . I propose to sail ahead . I feel sure that your hopes and I feel sure that your help are with me . For to reach a port , we must sail sail , not lie at anchor , sail , not drift .<speech_sep>My fellow Americans It is nearly five months since we were attacked at Pearl Harbor . For the two years prior to that attack this country had been gearing itself up to a high level of production of munitions . And yet our war efforts had done little to dislocate the normal lives of most of us . Since then we have dispatched strong forces of our Army and Navy , several hundred thousand of them , to bases and battlefronts thousands of miles from home . We have stepped up our war production on a scale that is testing our industrial power , and our engineering genius and our economic structure to the utmost . We have had no illusions about the fact that this would be is a tough job and a long one . American warships are now in combat in the North and South Atlantic , in the Arctic , in the Mediterranean , in the Indian Ocean , and in the North and South Pacific . American troops have taken stations in South America , Greenland , Iceland , the British Isles , the Near East , the Middle East and the Far East , the Continent of Australia , and many islands of the Pacific . American war planes , manned by Americans , are flying in actual combat over all the continents and all the oceans . On the European front the most important development of the past year has been without question the crushing counter offensive on the part of the great armies of Russia against the powerful German army . These Russian forces have destroyed and are destroying more armed power of our enemies troops , planes , tanks and guns than all the other United Nations put together . In the Mediterranean area , matters remain on the surface much as they were . But the situation there is receiving very careful attention . Recently we have received news of a change in government in what we used to know as the Republic of France a name dear to the hearts of all lovers of liberty a name and an institution which we hope will soon be restored to full dignity . Throughout the Nazi occupation of France , we have hoped for the maintenance of a French Government which would strive to regain independence , to reestablish the principles of Liberty , Equality and Fraternity , and to restore the historic culture of France . Our policy has been consistent from the very beginning . However , we are now greatly concerned lest those who have recently come to power may seek to force the brave French people into submission to Nazi despotism . The United Nations will take measures , if necessary , to prevent the use of French territory in any part of the world for military purposes by the Axis powers . The good people of France will readily understand that such action is essential for the United Nations to prevent assistance to the armies or navies or air forces of Germany , or Italy and or Japan . The overwhelming majority of the French people understand that the fight of the United Nations is fundamentally their fight , that our victory means the restoration of a free and independent France and the saving of France from the slavery which would be imposed upon her by her external enemies and by her internal traitors . We know how the French people really feel . We know that a deep seated determination to obstruct every step in the Axis plan extends from occupied France through Vichy France all the way to the people of their colonies in every ocean and on every continent . Our planes are helping in the defense of French colonies today , and soon American Flying Fortresses will be fighting for the liberation of the darkened continent of Europe itself . In all the occupied countries there are men and women , and even little children who have never stopped fighting , never stopped resisting , never stopped proving to the Nazis that their so called New Order can will never be enforced upon free peoples . In the German and Italian peoples themselves there is a growing conviction that the cause of Nazi ism and Fascism is hopeless that their political and military leaders have led them along the bitter road which leads not to world conquest but to final defeat . They cannot fail to contrast the present frantic speeches of these leaders with their arrogant boastings of a year ago , and two years ago . And , on the other side of the world , in the Far East , we have passed through a phase of serious losses . We have inevitably lost control of a large portion of the Philippine Islands . But this whole nation pays tribute to the Filipino and American officers and men who held out so long on Bataan Peninsula , to those grim and gallant fighters who still hold Corregidor , where the flag flies , and to the forces which that are still striking effectively at the enemy on Mindanao and other islands . The Malayan Peninsula and Singapore are in the hands of the enemy the Netherlands East Indies are almost entirely occupied , though resistance there continues . Many other islands are in the possession of the Japanese . But there is good reason to believe that their southward advance has been checked . Australia , New Zealand , and much other territory will be bases for offensive action and we are determined that the territory which that has been lost will be regained . The Japanese are pressing their northward advance in against Burma with considerable power , driving toward India and China . They have been opposed with great bravery by small British and Chinese forces aided by American fliers . The news in Burma tonight is not good . The Japanese may cut the Burma Road but I want to say to the gallant people of China that no matter what advances the Japanese may make , ways will be found to deliver airplanes and munitions of war to the armies of Generalissimo Chiang Kai shek . We remember that the Chinese people were the first to stand up and fight against the aggressors in this war and in the future an a still unconquerable China will play its proper role in maintaining peace and prosperity , not only in Eastern Asia but in the whole world . For every advance that the Japanese have made since they started their frenzied career of conquest , they have had to pay a very heavy toll in warships , in transports , in planes , and in men . They are feeling the effects of those losses . It is even reported from Japan that somebody has dropped bombs on Tokyo , and on other principal centers of Japanese war industries . If this be true , it is the first time in history that Japan has suffered such indignities . Although the treacherous attack on Pearl Harbor was the immediate cause of our entry into the war , that event found the American people spiritually prepared for war on a world wide scale . We went into this war fighting . We know what we are fighting for . We realize that the war has become what Hitler originally proclaimed it to be a total war . Not all of us can have the privilege of fighting our enemies in distant parts of the world . Not all of us can have the privilege of working in a munitions factory or a shipyard , or on the farms or in oil fields or mines , producing the weapons or the raw materials which that are needed by our armed forces . But there is one front and one battle where everyone in the United States every man , woman , and child is in action , and will be privileged to remain in action throughout this war . That front is right here at home , in our daily lives , and in our daily tasks . Here at home everyone will have the privilege of making whatever self denial is necessary , not only to supply our fighting men , but to keep the economic structure of our country fortified and secure during the war and after the war . This will require , of course , the abandonment not only of luxuries but of many other creature comforts . Every loyal American is aware of his individual responsibility . Whenever I hear anyone saying The American people are complacent they need to be aroused , I feel like asking him to come to Washington and to read the mail that floods into the White House and into all departments of this Government . The one question that recurs through all these thousands of letters and messages is What more can I do to help my country in winning this war To build the factories , and to buy the materials , and to pay the labor , and to provide the transportation , and to equip and feed and house the soldiers , sailors and marines , and to do all the thousands of things necessary in a war all cost a lot of money , more money than has ever been spent by any nation at any time in the long history of the world . We are now spending , solely for war purposes , the sum of about one hundred million dollars every day in the week . But , before this year is over , that almost unbelievable rate of expenditure will be doubled . All of this money has to be spent and spent quickly if we are to produce within the time now available the enormous quantities of weapons of war which we need . But the spending of these tremendous sums presents grave danger of disaster to our national economy . When your Government continues to spend these unprecedented sums for munitions month by month and year by year , that money goes into the pocketbooks and bank accounts of the people of the United States . At the same time raw materials and many manufactured goods are necessarily taken away from civilian use , and machinery and factories are being converted to war production . You do not have to be a professor of mathematics or economics to see that if people with plenty of cash start bidding against each other for scarce goods , the price of those goods them goes up . Yesterday I submitted to the Congress of the United States a seven point program , a program of general principles which taken together could be called the national economic policy for attaining the great objective of keeping the cost of living down . I repeat them now to you in substance First , we must , through heavier taxes , keep personal and corporate profits at a low reasonable rate . Second , we must fix ceilings on prices and rents . Third , we must stabilize wages . Fourth , we must stabilize farm prices . Fifth , we must put more billions into War Bonds . Sixth , we must ration all essential commodities , which are scarce . Seventh , we must discourage installment buying , and encourage paying off debts and mortgages . I do not think it is necessary to repeat what I said yesterday to the Congress in discussing these general principles . The important thing to remember is that earn one of these points is dependent on the others if the whole program is to work . Some people are already taking the position that every one of the seven points is correct except the one point which steps on their own individual toes . A few seem very willing to approve self denial on the part of their neighbors . The only effective course of action is a simultaneous attack on all of the factors which increase the cost of living , in one comprehensive , all embracing program covering prices , and profits , and wages , and taxes and debts . The blunt fact is that every single person in the United States is going to be affected by this program . Some of you will be affected more directly by one or two of these restrictive measures , but all of you will be affected indirectly by all of them . Are you a business man , or do you own stock in a business corporation Well , your profits are going to be cut down to a reasonably low level by taxation . Your income will be subject to higher taxes . Indeed in these days , when every available dollar should go to the war effort , I do not think that any American citizen should have a net income in excess of 25 , 000 per year after payment of taxes . Are you a retailer or a wholesaler or a manufacturer or a farmer or a landlord Ceilings are being placed on the prices at which you can sell your goods or rent your property . Do you work for wages You will have to forego higher wages for your particular job for the duration of the war . All of us are used to spending money for things that we want , things , however , which are not absolutely essential . We will all have to forego that kind of spending . Because we must put every dime and every dollar we can possibly spare out of our earnings into War Bonds and Stamps . Because the demands of the war effort require the rationing of goods of which there is not enough to go around . Because the stopping of purchases of non essentials will release thousands of workers who are needed in the war effort . As I told the Congress yesterday , sacrifice is not exactly the proper word with which to describe this program of self denial . When , at the end of this great struggle we shall have saved our free way of life , we shall have made no sacrifice . The price for civilization must be paid in hard work and sorrow and blood . The price is not too high . If you doubt it , ask those millions who live today under the tyranny of Hitlerism . Ask the workers of France and Norway and the Netherlands , whipped to labor by the lash , whether the stabilization of wages is too great a sacrifice . Ask the farmers of Poland and Denmark , of Czechoslovakia and France , looted of their livestock , starving while their own crops are stolen from their land , ask them whether parity prices are too great a sacrifice . Ask the businessmen of Europe , whose enterprises have been stolen from their owners , whether the limitation of profits and personal incomes is too great a sacrifice . Ask the women and children whom Hitler is starving whether the rationing of tires and gasoline and sugar is too great a sacrifice . We do not have to ask them . They have already given us their agonized answers . This great war effort must be carried through to its victorious conclusion by the indomitable will and determination of the people as one great whole . It must not be impeded by the faint of heart . It must not be impeded by those who put their own selfish interests above the interests of the nation . It must not be impeded by those who pervert honest criticism into falsification of fact . It must not be impeded by self styled experts either in economics or military problems who know neither true figures nor geography itself . It must not be impeded by a few bogus patriots who use the sacred freedom of the press to echo the sentiments of the propagandists in Tokyo and Berlin . And , above all , it shall not be imperiled by the handful of noisy traitors betrayers of America , and betrayers of Christianity itself would be dictators who in their hearts and souls have yielded to Hitlerism and would have this Republic do likewise . I shall use all of the executive power that I have to carry out the policy laid down . If it becomes necessary to ask for any additional legislation in order to attain our objective of preventing a spiral in the cost of living , I shall do so . I know the American farmer , the American workman , and the American businessman . I know that they will gladly embrace this economy and equality of sacrifice , satisfied that it is necessary for the most vital and compelling motive in all their lives winning through to victory . Never in the memory of man has there been a war in which the courage , the endurance and the loyalt y ies of civilians played so vital a part . Many thousands of civilians all over the world have been and are being killed or maimed by enemy action . Indeed , it was the fortitude of the common people of Britain under fire which enabled that island to stand and prevented Hitler from winning the war in 1940 . The ruins of London and Coventry and other cities are today the proudest monuments to British heroism . Our own American civilian population is now relatively safe from such disasters . And , to an ever increasing extent , our soldiers , sailors and marines are fighting with great bravery and great skill on far distant fronts to make sure that we shall remain safe . I should like to tell you one or two stories about the men we have in our armed forces There is , for instance example , Corydon Wassell . He was a missionary , well known for his good works in China . He is a simple , modest , retiring man , nearly sixty years old , but he entered the service of his country and was commissioned a Lieutenant Commander in the Navy . Wassell was assigned to duty in Java caring for wounded officers and men of the cruisers HOUSTON and MARBLEHEAD which had been in heavy action in the Java seas . When the Japanese advanced across the island , it was decided to evacuate as many as possible of the wounded to Australia . But about twelve of the men were so badly wounded that they could not not be moved . Wassell remained with them , these men knowing that he would be captured by the enemy . But he decided to make a last desperate attempt to get the men out of Java . He asked each of them if he wished to take the chance , and every one agreed . He first had to get the twelve men to the sea coast fifty miles away . To do this , he had to improvise stretchers for the hazardous journey . The men were suffering severely , but Wassell kept them alive by his skill , and inspired them by his own courage . And as the official report said , Wassell was almost like a Christ like shepherd devoted to his flock . On the sea coast , he embarked the men on a little Dutch ship . They were bombed , and they were machine gunned by waves of Japanese planes . Wassell took virtual command of the ship , and by great skill avoided destruction , hiding in small little bays and little inlets . A few days later , Wassell and his little small flock of wounded men reached Australia safely . And today Wassell now wears the Navy Cross . Another story concerns a ship , a ship rather than an individual man . You may remember the tragic sinking of the submarine , the S . SQUALUS off the New England coast in the summer of 1939 . Some of the crew were lost , but others were saved by the speed and the efficiency of the surface rescue crews . The SQUALUS itself was tediously raised from the bottom of the ocean sea . She was repaired and put back into commission , and eventually she sailed again under a new name , the S . SAILFISToday , she is a potent and effective unit of our submarine fleet in the Southwest Pacific . The SAILFISH has covered many thousands of miles in operations in the those western Pacific waters . She has sunk a Japanese destroyer . She has torpedoed a Japanese cruiser . She has made two torpedo hits two of them on a Japanese aircraft carrier . Three of the enlisted men of our Navy who went down with the SQUALUS in 1939 and were rescued , are today serving on the same ship , the S . SAILFISin this war . It seems to me that it is heartening to know that the SQUALUonce given up as lost , rose from the depths to fight for our country in time of peril . One more story , which that I heard only this morning This is a story of one of our Army Flying Fortresses operating in the Western Pacific . The pilot of this plane is a modest young man , proud of his crew for one of the toughest fights a bomber has yet experienced . The bomber departed from its base , as part or a flight of five bombers , to attack Japanese transports which that were landing troops against us in the Philippines . When they had gone about halfway to their destination , one of the motors of this bomber went out of commission . The young pilot lost contact with the other bombers . The crew , however , got the motor working , got it going again and the plane proceeded on its mission alone . By the time it arrived at its target the other four Flying Fortresses had already passed over , had dropped their bombs , and had stirred up the hornets nest of Japanese Zero planes . Eighteen of them these Zero fighters attacked our one Flying Fortress . Despite this mass attack , our plane proceeded on its mission , and dropped all of its bombs on six Japanese transports which were lined up along the docks . As it turned back on its homeward journey a running fight between the bomber and the eighteen Japanese pursuit planes continued for seventy five miles . Four pursuit ships planes of the Japs attacked simultaneously at each side . and Four were shot down with the side guns . During this fight , the bomber s radio operator was killed , the engineer s right hand was shot off , and one gunner was crippled , leaving only one man available to operate both side guns . Although wounded in one hand , this the gunner alternately manned both side guns , bringing down three more Japanese Zero planes . While this was going on , one engine on the American bomber was shot out , one gas tank was hit , the radio was shot off , and the oxygen system was entirely destroyed . Out of eleven control cables all but four were shot away . The rear landing wheel was blown off entirely , and the two front wheels were both shot flat . The fight continued until the remaining Japanese pursuit ships exhausted their ammunition and turned back . With two engines gone and the plane practically out of control , the American bomber returned to its base after dark and made an emergency landing . The mission had been accomplished . The name of that pilot is Captain Hewitt Wheless , of the United States Army . He comes from a place called Menard , Texas with a population 2 , 375 . He has been awarded the Distinguished Service Cross . And I hope that he is listening . These stories I have told you are not exceptional . They are typical examples of individual heroism and skill . As we here at home contemplate our own duties , our own responsibilities , let us think and think hard of the example which is being set for us by our fighting men . Our soldiers and sailors are members of well disciplined units . But they are still and forever individuals free individuals . They are farmers , and workers , businessmen , professional men , artists , clerks . They are the United States of America . That is why they fight . We too are the United States of America . That is why we must work and sacrifice . It is for them . It is for us . It is for victory .<speech_sep>To the Congress On the morning of December eleventh , the Government of Germany , pursuing its course of world conquest , declared war against the United States . The long known and the long expected has thus taken place . The forces endeavoring to enslave the entire world now are moving toward this hemisphere . Never before has there been a greater challenge to life , liberty , and civilization . Delay invites greater danger . Rapid and united effort by all of the peoples of the world who are determined to remain free will insure a world victory of the forces of justice and of righteousness over the forces of savagery and of barbarism . Italy also has declared war against the United States . I therefore request the Congress to recognize a state of war between the United States and Germany , and between the United States and Italy .<speech_sep>Three months have passed since I talked with you shortly after the adjournment of the Congress . Tonight I continue that report , though , because of the shortness of time , I must defer a number of subjects to a later date . Recently the most notable public questions that have concerned us all have had to do with industry and labor and with respect to these , certain developments have taken place which I consider of importance . I am happy to report that after years of uncertainty , culminating in the collapse of the spring of 1933 , we are bringing order out of the old chaos with a greater certainty of the employment of labor at a reasonable wage and of more business at a fair profit . These governmental and industrial developments hold promise of new achievements for the nation . Men may differ as to the particular form of governmental activity with respect to industry and business , but nearly all are agreed that private enterprise in times such as these cannot be left without assistance and without reasonable safeguards lest it destroy not only itself but also our processes of civilization . The underlying necessity for such activity is indeed as strong now as it was years ago when Elihu Root said the following very significant words Instead of the give and take of free individual contract , the tremendous power of organization has combined great aggregations of capital in enormous industrial establishments working through vast agencies of commerce and employing great masses of men in movements of production and transportation and trade , so great in the mass that each individual concerned in them is quite helpless by himself . The relations between the employer and the employed , between the owners of aggregated capital and the units of organized labor , between the small producer , the small trader , the consumer , and the great transporting and manufacturing and distributing agencies , all present new questions for the solution of which the old reliance upon the free action of individual wills appear quite inadequate . And in many directions , the intervention of that organized control which we call government seems necessary to produce the same result of justice and right conduct which obtained through the attrition of individuals before the new conditions arose . It was in this spirit thus described by Secretary Root that we approached our task of reviving private enterprise in March , 1933 . Our first problem was , of course , the banking situation because , as you know , the banks had collapsed . Some banks could not be saved but the great majority of them , either through their own resources or with government aid , have been restored to complete public confidence . This has given safety to millions of depositors in these banks . Closely following this great constructive effort we have , through various Federal agencies , saved debtors and creditors alike in many other fields of enterprise , such as loans on farm mortgages and home mortgages loans to the railroads and insurance companies and , finally , help for home owners and industry itself . In all of these efforts the government has come to the assistance of business and with the full expectation that the money used to assist these enterprises will eventually be repaid . I believe it will be . The second step we have taken in the restoration of normal business enterprise has been to clean up thoroughly unwholesome conditions in the field of investment . In this we have had assistance from many bankers and businessmen , most of whom recognize the past evils in the banking system , in the sale of securities , in the deliberate encouragement of stock gambling , in the sale of unsound mortgages and in many other ways in which the public lost billions of dollars . They saw that without changes in the policies and methods of investment there could be no recovery of public confidence in the security of savings . The country now enjoys the safety of bank savings under the new banking laws , the careful checking of new securities under the Securities Act and the curtailment of rank stock speculation through the Securities Exchange Act . I sincerely hope that as a result people will be discouraged in unhappy efforts to get rich quick by speculating in securities . The average person almost always loses . Only a very small minority of the people of this country believe in gambling as a substitute for the old philosophy of Benjamin Franklin that the way to wealth is through work . In meeting the problems of industrial recovery the chief agency of the government has been the National Recovery Administration . Under its guidance , trades and industries covering over ninety percent of all industrial employees have adopted codes of fair competition , which have been approved by the President . Under these codes , in the industries covered , child labor has been eliminated . The work day and the work week have been shortened . Minimum wages have been established and other wages adjusted toward a rising standard of living . The emergency purpose of the was to put men to work and since its creation more than four million persons have been re employed , in great part through the cooperation of American business brought about under the codes . Benefits of the Industrial Recovery Program have come , not only to labor in the form of new jobs , in relief from over work and in relief from under pay , but also to the owners and managers of industry because , together with a great increase in the payrolls , there has come a substantial rise in the total of industrial profits a rise from a deficit figure in the first quarter of 1933 to a level of sustained profits within one year from the inauguration of A . Now it should not be expected that even employed labor and capital would be completely satisfied with present conditions . Employed workers have not by any means all enjoyed a return to the earnings of prosperous times although millions of hitherto under privileged workers are today far better paid than ever before . Also , billions of dollars of invested capital have today a greater security of present and future earning power than before . This is because of the establishment of fair , competitive standards and because of relief from unfair competition in wage cutting which depresses markets and destroys purchasing power . But it is an undeniable fact that the restoration of other billions of sound investments to a reasonable earning power could not be brought about in one year . There is no magic formula , no economic panacea , which could simply revive over night the heavy industries and the trades dependent upon them . Nevertheless the gains of trade and industry , as a whole , have been substantial . In these gains and in the policies of the Administration there are assurances that hearten all forward looking men and women with the confidence that we are definitely rebuilding our political and economic system on the lines laid down by the New Deal lines which as I have so often made clear , are in complete accord with the underlying principles of orderly popular government which Americans have demanded since the white man first came to these shores . We count , in the future as in the past , on the driving power of individual initiative and the incentive of fair private profit , strengthened with the acceptance of those obligations to the public interest which rest upon us all . We have the right to expect that this driving power will be given patriotically and whole heartedly to our nation . We have passed through the formative period of code making in the National Recovery Administration and have effected a reorganization of the suited to the needs of the next phase , which is , in turn , a period of preparation for legislation which will determine its permanent form . In this recent reorganization we have recognized three distinct functions . First , the legislative or policy making function . Second , the administrative function of code making and revision and , third , the judicial function , which includes enforcement , consumer complaints and the settlement of disputes between employers and employees and between one employer and another . We are now prepared to move into this second phase , on the basis of our experience in the first phase under the able and energetic leadership of General Johnson . We shall watch carefully the working of this new machinery for the second phase of A . , modifying it where it needs modification and finally making recommendations to the Congress , in order that the functions of which have proved their worth may be made a part of the permanent machinery of government . Let me call your attention to the fact that the National Industrial Recovery Act gave businessmen the opportunity they had sought for years to improve business conditions through what has been called self government in industry . If the codes which have been written have been too complicated , if they have gone too far in such matters as price fixing and limitation of production , let it be remembered that so far as possible , consistent with the immediate public interest of this past year and the vital necessity of improving labor conditions , the representatives of trade and industry were permitted to write their ideas into the codes . It is now time to review these actions as a whole to determine through deliberative means in the light of experience , from the standpoint of the good of the industries themselves , as well as the general public interest , whether the methods and policies adopted in the emergency have been best calculated to promote industrial recovery and a permanent improvement of business and labor conditions . There may be a serious question as to the wisdom of many of those devices to control production , or to prevent destructive price cutting which many business organizations have insisted were necessary , or whether their effect may have been to prevent that volume of production which would make possible lower prices and increased employment . Another question arises as to whether in fixing minimum wages on the basis of an hourly or weekly wage we have reached into the heart of the problem which is to provide such annual earnings for the lowest paid worker as will meet his minimum needs . We also question the wisdom of extending code requirements suited to the great industrial centers and to large employers , to the great number of small employers in the smaller communities . During the last twelve months our industrial recovery has been to some extent retarded by strikes , including a few of major importance . I would not minimize the inevitable losses to employers and employees and to the general public through such conflicts . But I would point out that the extent and severity of labor disputes during this period has been far less than in any previous , comparable period . When the businessmen of the country were demanding the right to organize themselves adequately to promote their legitimate interests when the farmers were demanding legislation which would give them opportunities and incentives to organize themselves for a common advance , it was natural that the workers should seek and obtain a statutory declaration of their constitutional right to organize themselves for collective bargaining as embodied in Section 7 a of the National Industrial Recovery Act . Machinery set up by the Federal government has provided some new methods of adjustment . Both employers and employees mast share the blame of not using them as fully as they should . The employer who turns away from impartial agencies of peace , who denies freedom of organization to his employees , or fails to make every reasonable effort at a peaceful solution of their differences , is not fully supporting the recovery effort of his government . The workers who turn away from these same impartial agencies and decline to use their good offices to gain their ends are likewise not fully cooperating with their government . It is time that we made a clean cut effort to bring about that united action of management and labor , which is one of the high purposes of the Recovery Act . We have passed through more than a year of education . Step by step we have created all the government agencies necessary to insure , as a general rule , industrial peace , with justice for all those willing to use these agencies whenever their voluntary bargaining fails to produce a necessary agreement . There should be at least a full and fair trial given to these means of ending industrial warfare and in such an effort we should be able to secure for employers and employees and consumers the benefits that all derive from the continuous , peaceful operation of our essential enterprises . Accordingly , I propose to confer within the coming month with small groups of those truly representative of large employers of labor and of large groups of organized labor , in order to seek their cooperation in establishing what I may describe as a specific trial period of industrial peace . From those willing to join in establishing this hoped for period of peace , I shall seek assurances of the making and maintenance of agreements , which can be mutually relied upon , under which wages , hours and working conditions may be determined and any later adjustments shall be made either by agreement or , in case of disagreement , through the mediation or arbitration of state or federal agencies . I shall not ask either employers or employees permanently to lay aside the weapons common to industrial war . But I shall ask both groups to give a fair trial to peaceful methods of adjusting their conflicts of opinion and interest , and to experiment for a reasonable time with measures suitable to civilize our industrial civilization . Closely allied to the is the program of Public Works provided for in the same Act and designed to put more men back to work , both directly on the public works themselves , and indirectly in the industries supplying the materials for these public works . To those who say that our expenditures for Public Works and other means for recovery are a waste that we cannot afford , I answer that no country , however rich , can afford the waste of its human resources . Demoralization caused by vast unemployment is our greatest extravagance . Morally , it is the greatest menace to our social order . Some people try to tell me that we must make up our minds that for the future we shall permanently have millions of unemployed just as other countries have had them for over a decade . What may be necessary for those countries is not my responsibility to determine . But as for this country , I stand or fall by my refusal to accept as a necessary condition of our future a permanent army of unemployed . On the contrary , we must make it a national principle that we will not tolerate a large army of unemployed and that we will arrange our national economy to end our present unemployment as soon as we can and then to take wise measures against its return . I do not want to think that it is the destiny of any American to remain permanently on relief rolls . Those , fortunately few in number , who are frightened by boldness and cowed by the necessity for making decisions , complain that all we have done is unnecessary and subject to great risks . Now that these people are coming out of their storm cellars , they forget that there ever was a storm . They point to England . They would have you believe that England has made progress out of her depression by a do nothing policy , by letting nature take her course . England has her peculiarities and we have ours but I do not believe any intelligent observer can accuse England of undue orthodoxy in the present emergency . Did England let nature take her course No . Did England hold to the gold standard when her reserves were threatened No . Has England gone back to the gold standard today No . Did England hesitate to call in ten billion dollars of her war bonds bearing 5 percent interest , to issue new bonds therefore bearing only 3 1 2 percent interest , thereby saving the British Treasury one hundred and fifty million dollars a year in interest alone No . And let it be recorded that the British bankers helped . Is it not a fact that ever since the year 1909 , Great Britain in many ways has advanced further along lines of social security than the United States Is it not a fact that relations between capital and labor on the basis of collective bargaining are much further advanced in Great Britain than in the United States It is perhaps not strange that the conservative British press has told us with pardonable irony that much of our New Deal program is only an attempt to catch up with English reforms that go back ten years or more . Nearly all Americans are sensible and calm people . We do not get greatly excited nor is our peace of mind disturbed , whether we be businessmen or workers or farmers , by awesome pronouncements concerning the unconstitutionality of some of our measures of recovery and relief and reform . We are not frightened by reactionary lawyers or political editors . All of these cries have been heard before . More than twenty years ago , when Theodore Roosevelt and Woodrow Wilson were attempting to correct abuses in our national life , the great Chief Justice White said There is great danger it seems to me to arise from the constant habit which prevails where anything is opposed or objected to , of referring without rhyme or reason to the Constitution as a means of preventing its accomplishment , thus creating the general impression that the Constitution is but a barrier to progress instead of being the broad highway through which alone true progress may be enjoyed . In our efforts for recovery we have avoided on the one hand the theory that business should and must be taken over into an all embracing Government . We have avoided on the other hand the equally untenable theory that it is an interference with liberty to offer reasonable help when private enterprise is in need of help . The course we have followed fits the American practice of Government a practice of taking action step by step , of regulating only to meet concrete needs a practice of courageous recognition of change . I believe with Abraham Lincoln , that The legitimate object of Government is to do for a community of people whatever they need to have done but cannot do at all or cannot do so well for themselves in their separate and individual capacities . I still believe in ideals . I am not for a return to that definition of Liberty under which for many years a free people were being gradually regimented into the service of the privileged few . I prefer and I am sure you prefer that broader definition of Liberty under which we are moving forward to greater freedom , to greater security for the average man than he has ever known before in the history of America .<speech_sep>On a Sunday night a week after my Inauguration I used the radio to tell you about the banking crisis and the measures we were taking to meet it . I think that in that way I made clear to the country various facts that might otherwise have been misunderstood and in general provided a means of understanding which did much to restore confidence . Tonight , eight weeks later , I come for the second time to give you my report in the same spirit and by the same means to tell you about what we have been doing and what we are planning to do . Two months ago we were facing serious problems . The country was dying by inches . It was dying because trade and commerce had declined to dangerously low levels prices for basic commodities were such as to destroy the value of the assets of national institutions such as banks , savings banks , insurance companies , and others . These institutions , because of their great needs , were foreclosing mortgages , calling loans , refusing credit . Thus there was actually in process of destruction the property of millions of people who had borrowed money on that property in terms of dollars which had had an entirely different value from the level of March , 1933 . That situation in that crisis did not call for any complicated consideration of economic panaceas or fancy plans . We were faced by a condition and not a theory . There were just two alternatives The first was to allow the foreclosures to continue , credit to be withheld and money to go into hiding , and thus forcing liquidation and bankruptcy of banks , railroads and insurance companies and a recapitalizing of all business and all property on a lower level . This alternative meant a continuation of what is loosely called deflation , the net result of which would have been extraordinary hardship on all property owners and , incidentally , extraordinary hardships on all persons working for wages through an increase in unemployment and a further reduction of the wage scale . It is easy to see that the result of this course would have not only economic effects of a very serious nature but social results that might bring incalculable harm . Even before I was inaugurated I came to the conclusion that such a policy was too much to ask the American people to bear . It involved not only a further loss of homes , farms , savings and wages but also a loss of spiritual values the loss of that sense of security for the present and the future so necessary to the peace and contentment of the individual and of his family . When you destroy these things you will find it difficult to establish confidence of any sort in the future . It was clear that mere appeals from Washington for confidence and the mere lending of more money to shaky institutions could not stop this downward course . A prompt program applied as quickly as possible seemed to me not only justified but imperative to our national security . The Congress , and when I say Congress I mean the members of both political parties , fully understood this and gave me generous and intelligent support . The members of Congress realized that the methods of normal times had to be replaced in the emergency by measures which were suited to the serious and pressing requirements of the moment . There was no actual surrender of power , Congress still retained its constitutional authority and no one has the slightest desire to change the balance of these powers . The function of Congress is to decide what has to be done and to select the appropriate agency to carry out its will . This policy it has strictly adhered to . The only thing that has been happening has been to designate the President as the agency to carry out certain of the purposes of the Congress . This was constitutional and in keeping with the past American tradition . The legislation which has been passed or in the process of enactment can properly be considered as part of a well grounded plan . First , we are giving opportunity of employment to one quarter of a million of the unemployed , especially the young men who have dependents , to go into the forestry and flood prevention work . This is a big task because it means feeding , clothing and caring for nearly twice as many men as we have in the regular army itself . In creating this civilian conservation corps we are killing two birds with one stone . We are clearly enhancing the value of our natural resources and second , we are relieving an appreciable amount of actual distress . This great group of men have entered upon their work on a purely voluntary basis , no military training is involved and we are conserving not only our natural resources but our human resources . One of the great values to this work is the fact that it is direct and requires the intervention of very little machinery . Second , I have requested the Congress and have secured action upon a proposal to put the great properties owned by our Government at Muscle Shoals to work after long years of wasteful inaction , and with this a broad plan for the improvement of a vast area in the Tennessee Valley . It will add to the comfort and happiness of hundreds of thousands of people and the incident benefits will reach the entire nation . Next , the Congress is about to pass legislation that will greatly ease the mortgage distress among the farmers and the home owners of the nation , by providing for the easing of the burden of debt now bearing so heavily upon millions of our people . Our next step in seeking immediate relief is a grant of half a billion dollars to help the states , counties and municipalities in their duty to care for those who need direct and Immediate relief . The Congress also passed legislation authorizing the sale of beer in such states as desired . This has already resulted in considerable reemployment and , incidentally , has provided much needed tax revenue . We are planning to ask the Congress for legislation to enable the Government to undertake public works , thus stimulating directly and indirectly the employment of many others in well considered projects . Further legislation has been taken up which goes much more fundamentally into our economic problems . The Farm Relief Bill seeks by the use of several methods , alone or together , to bring about an increased return to farmers for their major farm products , seeking at the same time to prevent in the days to come disastrous over production which so often in the past has kept farm commodity prices far below a reasonable return . This measure provides wide powers for emergencies . The extent of its use will depend entirely upon what the future has in store . Well considered and conservative measures will likewise be proposed which will attempt to give to the industrial workers of the country a more fair wage return , prevent cut throat competition and unduly long hours for labor , and at the same time to encourage each industry to prevent over production . Our Railroad Bill falls into the same class because it seeks to provide and make certain definite planning by the railroads themselves , with the assistance of the Government , to eliminate the duplication and waste that is now resulting in railroad receiverships and continuing operating deficits . I am certain that the people of this country understand and approve the broad purposes behind these new governmental policies relating to agriculture and industry and transportation . We found ourselves faced with more agricultural products than we could possibly consume ourselves and surpluses which other nations did not have the cash to buy from us except at prices ruinously low . We have found our factories able to turn out more goods than we could possibly consume , and at the same time we were faced with a falling export demand . We found ourselves with more facilities to transport goods and crops than there were goods and crops to be transported . All of this has been caused in large part by a complete lack of planning and a complete failure to understand the danger signals that have been flying ever since the close of the World War . The people of this country have been erroneously encouraged to believe that they could keep on increasing the output of farm and factory indefinitely and that some magician would find ways and means for that increased output to be consumed with reasonable profit to the producer . Today we have reason to believe that things are a little better than they were two months ago . Industry has picked up , railroads are carrying more freight , farm prices are better , but I am not going to indulge in issuing proclamations of over enthusiastic assurance . We cannot bally ho ourselves back to prosperity . I am going to be honest at all times with the people of the country . I do not want the people of this country to take the foolish course of letting this improvement come back on another speculative wave . I do not want the people to believe that because of unjustified optimism we can resume the ruinous practice of increasing our crop output and our factory output in the hope that a kind providence will find buyers at high prices . Such a course may bring us immediate and false prosperity but it will be the kind of prosperity that will lead us into another tailspin . It is wholly wrong to call the measure that we have taken Government control of farming , control of industry , and control of transportation . It is rather a partnership between Government and farming and industry and transportation , not partnership in profits , for the profits would still go to the citizens , but rather a partnership in planning and partnership to see that the plans are carried out . Let me illustrate with an example . Take the cotton goods industry . It is probably true that ninety per cent of the cotton manufacturers would agree to eliminate starvation wages , would agree to stop long hours of employment , would agree to stop child labor , would agree to prevent an overproduction that would result in unsalable surpluses . But , what good is such an agreement if the other ten per cent of cotton manufacturers pay starvation wages , require long hours , employ children in their mills and turn out burdensome surpluses The unfair ten per cent could produce goods so cheaply that the fair ninety per cent would be compelled to meet the unfair conditions . Here is where government comes in . Government ought to have the right and will have the right , after surveying and planning for an industry to prevent , with the assistance of the overwhelming majority of that industry , unfair practice and to enforce this agreement by the authority of government . The so called anti trust laws were intended to prevent the creation of monopolies and to forbid unreasonable profits to those monopolies . That purpose of the anti trust laws must be continued , but these laws were never intended to encourage the kind of unfair competition that results in long hours , starvation wages and overproduction . The same principle applies to farm products and to transportation and every other field of organized private industry . We are working toward a definite goal , which is to prevent the return of conditions which came very close to destroying what we call modern civilization . The actual accomplishment of our purpose cannot be attained in a day . Our policies are wholly within purposes for which our American Constitutional Government was established 150 years ago . I know that the people of this country will understand this and will also understand the spirit in which we are undertaking this policy . I do not deny that we may make mistakes of procedure as we carry out the policy . I have no expectation of making a hit every time I come to bat . What I seek is the highest possible batting average , not only for myself but for the team . Theodore Roosevelt once said to me If I can be right 75 percent of the time I shall come up to the fullest measure of my hopes . Much has been said of late about Federal finances and inflation , the gold standard , etc . Let me make the facts very simple and my policy very clear . In the first place , government credit and government currency are really one and the same thing . Behind government bonds there is only a promise to pay . Behind government currency we have , in addition to the promise to pay , a reserve of gold and a small reserve of silver . In this connection it is worth while remembering that in the past the government has agreed to redeem nearly thirty billions of its debts and its currency in gold , and private corporations in this country have agreed to redeem another sixty or seventy billions of securities and mortgages in gold . The government and private corporations were making these agreements when they knew full well that all of the gold in the United States amounted to only between three and four billions and that all of the gold in all of the world amounted to only about eleven billions . If the holders of these promises to pay started in to demand gold the first comers would get gold for a few days and they would amount to about one twenty fifth of the holders of the securities and the currency . The other twenty four people out of twenty five , who did not happen to be at the top of the line , would be told politely that there was no more gold left . We have decided to treat all twenty five in the same way in the interest of justice and the exercise of the constitutional powers of this government . We have placed every one on the same basis in order that the general good may be preserved . Nevertheless , gold , and to a partial extent silver , are perfectly good bases for currency and that is why I decided not to let any of the gold now in the country go out of it . A series of conditions arose three weeks ago which very readily might have meant , first , a drain on our gold by foreign countries , and secondly , as a result of that , a flight of American capital , in the form of gold , out of our country . It is not exaggerating the possibility to tell you that such an occurrence might well have taken from us the major part of our gold reserve and resulted in such a further weakening of our government and private credit as to bring on actual panic conditions and the complete stoppage of the wheels of industry . The Administration has the definite objective of raising commodity prices to such an extent that those who have borrowed money will , on the average , be able to repay that money in the same kind of dollar which they borrowed . We do not seek to let them get such a cheap dollar that they will be able to pay bock a great deal less than they borrowed . In other words , we seek to correct a wrong and not to create another wrong in the opposite direction . That is why powers are being given to the Administration to provide , if necessary , for an enlargement of credit , in order to correct the existing wrong . These powers will be used when , as , and if it may be necessary to accomplish the purpose . Hand in hand with the domestic situation which , of course , is our first concern , is the world situation , and I want to emphasize to you that the domestic situation is inevitably and deeply tied in with the conditions in all of the other nations of the world . In other words , we can get , in all probability , a fair measure of prosperity return in the United States , but it will not be permanent unless we get a return to prosperity all over the world . In the conferences which we have held and are holding with the leaders of other nations , we are seeking four great objectives . First , a general reduction of armaments and through this the removal of the fear of invasion and armed attack , and , at the same time , a reduction in armament costs , in order to help in the balancing of government budgets and the reduction of taxation . Secondly , a cutting down of the trade barriers , in order to re start the flow of exchange of crops and goods between nations . Third , the setting up of a stabilization of currencies , in order that trade can make contracts ahead . Fourth , the reestablishment of friendly relations and greater confidence between all nations . Our foreign visitors these past three weeks have responded to these purposes in a very helpful way . All of the Nations have suffered alike in this great depression . They have all reached the conclusion that each can best be helped by the common action of all . It is in this spirit that our visitors have met with us and discussed our common problems . The international conference that lies before us must succeed . The future of the world demands it and we have each of us pledged ourselves to the best Joint efforts to this end . To you , the people of this country , all of us , the Members of the Congress and the members of this Administration owe a profound debt of gratitude . Throughout the depression you have been patient . You have granted us wide powers , you have encouraged us with a wide spread approval of our purposes . Every ounce of strength and every resource at our command we have devoted to the end of justifying your confidence . We are encouraged to believe that a wise and sensible beginning has been made . In the present spirit of mutual confidence and mutual encouragement we go forward .<speech_sep>My friends This is not a fireside chat on war . It is a talk on national security , because the nub of the whole purpose of your President is to keep you now , and your children later , and your grandchildren much later , out of a last ditch war for the preservation of American independence and all of the things that American independence means to you and to me and to ours . Tonight , in the presence of a world crisis , my mind goes back eight years to a night in the midst of a domestic crisis . It was a time when the wheels of American industry were grinding to a full stop , when the whole banking system of our country had ceased to function . I well remember that while I sat in my study in the White House , preparing to talk with the people of the United States , I had before my eyes the picture of all those Americans with whom I was talking . I saw the workmen in the mills , the mines , the factories the girl behind the counter the small shopkeeper the farmer doing his spring plowing the widows and the old men wondering about their life s savings . I tried to convey to the great mass of American people what the banking crisis meant to them in their daily lives . Tonight , I want to do the same thing , with the same people , in this new crisis which faces America . We met the issue of 1933 with courage and realism . We face this new crisis this new threat to the security of our nation with the same courage and realism . Never before since Jamestown and Plymouth Rock has our American civilization been in such danger as now . For , on September 27th , 1940 , this year , by an agreement signed in Berlin , three powerful nations , two in Europe and one in Asia , joined themselves together in the threat that if the United States of America interfered with or blocked the expansion program of these three nations a program aimed at world control they would unite in ultimate action against the United States . The Nazi masters of Germany have made it clear that they intend not only to dominate all life and thought in their own country , but also to enslave the whole of Europe , and then to use the resources of Europe to dominate the rest of the world . It was only three weeks ago their leader stated this There are two worlds that stand opposed to each other . And then in defiant reply to his opponents , he said this Others are correct when they say With this world we cannot ever reconcile ourselves . . . . I can beat any other power in the world . So said the leader of the Nazis . In other words , the Axis not merely admits but the Axis proclaims that there can be no ultimate peace between their philosophy of government and our philosophy of government . In view of the nature of this undeniable threat , it can be asserted , properly and categorically , that the United States has no right or reason to encourage talk of peace , until the day shall come when there is a clear intention on the part of the aggressor nations to abandon all thought of dominating or conquering the world . At this moment , the forces of the states that are leagued against all peoples who live in freedom are being held away from our shores . The Germans and the Italians are being blocked on the other side of the Atlantic by the British , and by the Greeks , and by thousands of soldiers and sailors who were able to escape from subjugated countries . In Asia the Japanese are being engaged by the Chinese nation in another great defense . In the Pacific Ocean is our fleet . Some of our people like to believe that wars in Europe and in Asia are of no concern to us . But it is a matter of most vital concern to us that European and Asiatic war makers should not gain control of the oceans which lead to this hemisphere . One hundred and seventeen years ago the Monroe Doctrine was conceived by our Government as a measure of defense in the face of a threat against this hemisphere by an alliance in Continental Europe . Thereafter , we stood on guard in the Atlantic , with the British as neighbors . There was no treaty . There was no unwritten agreement . And yet , there was the feeling , proven correct by history , that we as neighbors could settle any disputes in peaceful fashion . And the fact is that during the whole of this time the Western Hemisphere has remained free from aggression from Europe or from Asia . Does anyone seriously believe that we need to fear attack anywhere in the Americas while a free Britain remains our most powerful naval neighbor in the Atlantic And does anyone seriously believe , on the other hand , that we could rest easy if the Axis powers were our neighbors there If Great Britain goes down , the Axis powers will control the continents of Europe , Asia , Africa , Australia , and the high seas and they will be in a position to bring enormous military and naval resources against this hemisphere . It is no exaggeration to say that all of us , in all the Americas , would be living at the point of a gun a gun loaded with explosive bullets , economic as well as military . We should enter upon a new and terrible era in which the whole world , our hemisphere included , would be run by threats of brute force . And to survive in such a world , we would have to convert ourselves permanently into a militaristic power on the basis of war economy . Some of us like to believe that even if Great Britain falls , we are still safe , because of the broad expanse of the Atlantic and of the Pacific . But the width of those these oceans is not what it was in the days of clipper ships . At one point between Africa and Brazil the distance is less from Washington than it is from Washington to Denver , Colorado five hours for the latest type of bomber . And at the North end of the Pacific Ocean America and Asia almost touch each other . Why , even today we have planes that which could fly from the British Isles to New England and back again without refueling . And remember that the range of a the modern bomber is ever being increased . During the past week many people in all parts of the nation have told me what they wanted me to say tonight . Almost all of them expressed a courageous desire to hear the plain truth about the gravity of the situation . One telegram , however , expressed the attitude of the small minority who want to see no evil and hear no evil , even though they know in their hearts that evil exists . That telegram begged me not to tell again of the ease with which our American cities could be bombed by any hostile power which had gained bases in this Western Hemisphere . The gist of that telegram was Please , President , do not frighten us by telling us the facts . Frankly and definitely there is danger ahead danger against which we must prepare . But we well know that we cannot escape danger it , or the fear of danger , by crawling into bed and pulling the covers over our heads . Some nations of Europe were bound by solemn non intervention pacts with Germany . Other nations were assured by Germany that they need never fear invasion . Non intervention pact or not , the fact remains that they were attacked , overrun , and thrown into the modern form of slavery at an hour s notice , or even without any notice at all . As an exiled leader of one of these nations said to me the other day , The notice was a minus quantity . It was given to my Government two hours after German troops had poured into my country in a hundred places . The fate of these nations tells us what it means to live at the point of a Nazi gun . The Nazis have justified such actions by various pious frauds . One of these frauds is the claim that they are occupying a nation for the purpose of restoring order . Another is that they are occupying or controlling a nation on the excuse that they are protecting it against the aggression of somebody else . For example , Germany has said that she was occupying Belgium to save the Belgians from the British . Would she then hesitate to say to any South American country , We are occupying you to protect you from aggression by the United States Belgium today is being used as an invasion base against Britain , now fighting for its life . And any South American country , in Nazi hands , would always constitute a jumping off place for German attack on any one of the other republics of this hemisphere . Analyze for yourselves the future of two other places even nearer to Germany if the Nazis won . Could Ireland hold out Would Irish freedom be permitted as an amazing pet exception in an unfree world Or the Islands of the Azores which still fly the flag of Portugal after five centuries You and I think of Hawaii as an outpost of defense in the Pacific . And yet , the Azores are closer to our shores in the Atlantic than Hawaii is on the other side . There are those who say that the Axis powers would never have any desire to attack the Western Hemisphere . That this is the same dangerous form of wishful thinking which has destroyed the powers of resistance of so many conquered peoples . The plain facts are that the Nazis have proclaimed , time and again , that all other races are their inferiors and therefore subject to their orders . And most important of all , the vast resources and wealth of this American Hemisphere constitute the most tempting loot in all of the round world . Let us no longer blind ourselves to the undeniable fact that the evil forces which have crushed and undermined and corrupted so many others are already within our own gates . Your Government knows much about them and every day is ferreting them out . Their secret emissaries are active in our own and in neighboring countries . They seek to stir up suspicion and dissension to cause internal strife . They try to turn capital against labor , and vice versa . They try to reawaken long slumbering racist and religious enmities which should have no place in this country . They are active in every group that promotes intolerance . They exploit for their own ends our own natural abhorrence of war . These trouble breeders have but one purpose . It is to divide our people , to divide them into hostile groups and to destroy our unity and shatter our will to defend ourselves . There are also American citizens , many of then in high places , who , unwittingly in most cases , are aiding and abetting the work of these agents . I do not charge these American citizens with being foreign agents . But I do charge them with doing exactly the kind of work that the dictators want done in the United States . These people not only believe that we can save our own skins by shutting our eyes to the fate of other nations . Some of them go much further than that . They say that we can and should become the friends and even the partners of the Axis powers . Some of them even suggest that we should imitate the methods of the dictatorships . But Americans never can and never will do that . The experience of the past two years has proven beyond doubt that no nation can appease the Nazis . No man can tame a tiger into a kitten by stroking it . There can be no appeasement with ruthlessness . There can be no reasoning with an incendiary bomb . We know now that a nation can have peace with the Nazis only at the price of total surrender . Even the people of Italy have been forced to become accomplices of the Nazis , but at this moment they do not know how soon they will be embraced to death by their allies . The American appeasers ignore the warning to be found in the fate of Austria , Czechoslovakia , Poland , Norway , Belgium , the Netherlands , Denmark and France . They tell you that the Axis powers are going to win anyway that all of this bloodshed in the world could be saved , that the United States might just as well throw its influence into the scale of a dictated peace , and get the best out of it that we can . They call it a negotiated peace . Nonsense Is it a negotiated peace if a gang of outlaws surrounds your community and on threat of extermination makes you pay tribute to save your own skins Such a dictated peace would be no peace at all . It would be only another armistice , leading to the most gigantic armament race and the most devastating trade wars in all history . And in these contests the Americas would offer the only real resistance to the Axis powers . With all their vaunted efficiency , with all their and parade of pious purpose in this war , there are still in their background the concentration camp and the servants of God in chains . The history of recent years proves that the shootings and the chains and the concentration camps are not simply the transient tools but the very altars of modern dictatorships . They may talk of a new order in the world , but what they have in mind is only but a revival of the oldest and the worst tyranny . In that there is no liberty , no religion , no hope . The proposed new order is the very opposite of a United States of Europe or a United States of Asia . It is not a government based upon the consent of the governed . It is not a union of ordinary , self respecting men and women to protect themselves and their freedom and their dignity from oppression . It is an unholy alliance of power and pelf to dominate and to enslave the human race . The British people and their allies today are conducting an active war against this unholy alliance . Our own future security is greatly dependent on the outcome of that fight . Our ability to keep out of war is going to be affected by that outcome . Thinking in terms of today and tomorrow , I make the direct statement to the American people that there is far less chance of the United States getting into war if we do all we can now to support the nations defending themselves against attack by the Axis than if we acquiesce in their defeat , submit tamely to an Axis victory , and wait our turn to be the object of attack in another war later on . If we are to be completely honest with ourselves , we must admit that there is risk in any course we may take . But I deeply believe that the great majority of our people agree that the course that I advocate involves the least risk now and the greatest hope for world peace in the future . The people of Europe who are defending themselves do not ask us to do their fighting . They ask us for the implements of war , the planes , the tanks , the guns , the freighters which will enable them to fight for their liberty and for our security . Emphatically we must get these weapons to them , get them to them in sufficient volume and quickly enough , so that we and our children will be saved the agony and suffering of war which others have had to endure . Let not the defeatists tell us that it is too late . It will never be earlier . Tomorrow will be later than today . Certain facts are self evident . In a military sense Great Britain and the British Empire are today the spearhead of resistance to world conquest . And they are putting up a fight which will live forever in the story of human gallantry . There is no demand for sending an American Expeditionary Force outside our own borders . There is no intention by any member of your Government to send such a force . You can , therefore , nail nail any talk about sending armies to Europe as deliberate untruth . Our national policy is not directed toward war . Its sole purpose is to keep war away from our country and away from our people . Democracy s fight against world conquest is being greatly aided , and must be more greatly aided , by the rearmament of the United States and by sending every ounce and every ton of munitions and supplies that we can possibly spare to help the defenders who are in the front lines . And it is no more unneutral for us to do that than it is for Sweden , Russia and other nations near Germany to send steel and ore and oil and other war materials into Germany every day in the week . We are planning our own defense with the utmost urgency , and in its vast scale we must integrate the war needs of Britain and the other free nations which are resisting aggression . This is not a matter of sentiment or of controversial personal opinion . It is a matter of realistic , practical military policy , based on the advice of our military experts who are in close touch with existing warfare . These military and naval experts and the members of the Congress and the Administration have a single minded purpose the defense of the United States . This nation is making a great effort to produce everything that is necessary in this emergency and with all possible speed . And this great effort requires great sacrifice . I would ask no one to defend a democracy which in turn would not defend everyone in the nation against want and privation . The strength of this nation shall not be diluted by the failure of the Government to protect the economic well being of its all citizens . If our capacity to produce is limited by machines , it must ever be remembered that these machines are operated by the skill and the stamina of the workers . As the Government is determined to protect the rights of the workers , so the nation has a right to expect that the men who man the machines will discharge their full responsibilities to the urgent needs of defense . The worker possesses the same human dignity and is entitled to the same security of position as the engineer or the manager or the owner . For the workers provide the human power that turns out the destroyers , and the air planes and the tanks . The nation expects our defense industries to continue operation without interruption by strikes or lockouts . It expects and insists that management and workers will reconcile their differences by voluntary or legal means , to continue to produce the supplies that are so sorely needed . And on the economic side of our great defense program , we are , as you know , bending every effort to maintain stability of prices and with that the stability of the cost of living . Nine days ago I announced the setting up of a more effective organization to direct our gigantic efforts to increase the production of munitions . The appropriation of vast sums of money and a well coordinated executive direction of our defense efforts are not in themselves enough . Guns , planes , and ships and many other things have to be built in the factories and the arsenals of America . They have to be produced by workers and managers and engineers with the aid of machines which in turn have to be built by hundreds of thousands of workers throughout the land . In this great work there has been splendid cooperation between the Government and industry and labor , and I am very thankful . American industrial genius , unmatched throughout all the world in the solution of production problems , has been called upon to bring its resources and its talents into action . Manufacturers of watches , of farm implements , of linotypes , and cash registers , and automobiles , and sewing machines , and lawn mowers and locomotives are now making fuses , bomb packing crates , telescope mounts , shells , and pistols and tanks . But all of our present efforts are not enough . We must have more ships , more guns , more planes more of everything . And this can only be accomplished if we discard the notion of business as usual . This job cannot be done merely by superimposing on the existing productive facilities the added requirements of the nation for defense . Our defense efforts must not be blocked by those who fear the future consequences of surplus plant capacity . The possible consequences of failure of our defense efforts now are much more to be feared . And after the present needs of our defense are past , a proper handling of the country s peacetime needs will require all of the new productive capacity if not still more . No pessimistic policy about the future of America shall delay the immediate expansion of those industries essential to defense . We need them . I want to make it clear that it is the purpose of the nation to build now with all possible speed every machine , every arsenal , every and factory that we need to manufacture our defense material . We have the men the skill the wealth and above all , the will . I am confident that if and when production of consumer or luxury goods in certain industries requires the use of machines and raw materials that are essential for defense purposes , then such production must yield , and will gladly yield , to our primary and compelling purpose . So I appeal to the owners of plants to the managers to the workers to our own Government employees to put every ounce of effort into producing these munitions swiftly and without stint . And With this appeal I give you the pledge that all of us who are officers of your Government will devote ourselves to the same whole hearted extent to the great task that which lies ahead . As planes and ships and guns and shells are produced , your Government , with its defense experts , can then determine how best to use them to defend this hemisphere . The decision as to how much shall be sent abroad and how much shall remain at home must be made on the basis of our overall military necessities . We must be the great arsenal of democracy . For us this is an emergency as serious as war itself . We must apply ourselves to our task with the same resolution , the same sense of urgency , the same spirit of patriotism and sacrifice as we would show were we at war . We have furnished the British great material support and we will furnish far more in the future . There will be no bottlenecks in our determination to aid Great Britain . No dictator , no combination of dictators , will weaken that determination by threats of how they will construe that determination . The British have received invaluable military support from the heroic Greek army and from the forces of all the governments in exile . Their strength is growing . It is the strength of men and women who value their freedom more highly than they value their lives . I believe that the Axis powers are not going to win this war . I base that belief on the latest and best of information . We have no excuse for defeatism . We have every good reason for hope hope for peace , yes , and hope for the defense of our civilization and for the building of a better civilization in the future . I have the profound conviction that the American people are now determined to put forth a mightier effort than they have ever yet made to increase our production of all the implements of defense , to meet the threat to our democratic faith . As President of the United States I call for that national effort . I call for it in the name of this nation which we love and honor and which we are privileged and proud to serve . I call upon our people with absolute confidence that our common cause will greatly succeed .<speech_sep>We have considered and determined the military plans of the three Allied powers for the final defeat of the common enemy . The military staffs of the three Allied Nations have met in daily meetings throughout the Conference . These meetings have been most satisfactory from every point of view and have resulted in closer coordination of the military effort of the three Allies than ever before . The fullest information has been interchanged . The timing , scope , and coordination of new and even more powerful blows to be launched by our armies and air forces into the heart of Germany from the East , West , North , and South have been fully agreed and planned in detail . Our combined military plans will be made known only as we execute them , but we believe that the very close working partnership among the three staffs attained at this Conference will result in shortening the war . Meetings of the three staffs will be continued in the future whenever the need arises . Nazi Germany is doomed . The German people will only make the cost of their defeat heavier to themselves by attempting to continue a hopeless resistance . We have agreed on common policies and plans for enforcing the unconditional surrender terms which we shall impose together on Nazi Germany after German armed resistance has been finally crushed . These terms will not be made known until the final defeat of Germany has been accomplished . Under the agreed plan , the forces of the three powers will each occupy a separate zone of Germany . Coordinated administration and control has been provided for under the plan through a central control commission consisting of the Supreme Commanders of the three powers with headquarters in Berlin . It has been agreed that France should be invited by the three powers , if she should so desire , to take over a zone of occupation , and to participate as a fourth member of the control commission . The limits of the French zone will be agreed by the four Governments concerned through their representatives on the European Advisory Commission . It is our inflexible purpose to destroy German militarism and Nazism and to ensure that Germany will never again be able to disturb the peace of the world . We are determined to disarm and disband all German armed forces break up for all time the German General Staff that has repeatedly contrived the resurgence of German militarism remove or destroy all German military equipment eliminate or control all German industry that could be used for military production bring all war criminals to just and swift punishment and exact reparation in kind for the destruction wrought by the Germans wipe out the Nazi Party , Nazi laws , organizations and institutions , remove all Nazi and militarist influences from public office and from the cultural and economic life of the German people and take in harmony such other measures in Germany as may be necessary to the future peace and safety of the world . It is not our purpose to destroy the people of Germany , but only when Nazism and militarism have been extirpated will there be hope for a decent life for Germans , and a place for them in the comity of Nations . We have considered the question of the damage caused by Germany to the Allied Nations in this war and recognized it as just that Germany be obliged to make compensation for this damage in kind to the greatest extent possible . A commission for the compensation of damage will be established . The commission will work in Moscow . We are resolved upon the earliest possible establishment with our allies of a general international organization to maintain peace and security . We believe that this is essential , both to prevent aggression and to remove the political , economic , and social causes of war through the close and continuing collaboration of all peace loving peoples . The foundations were laid at Dumbarton Oaks . On the important question of voting procedure , however , agreement was not there reached . The present Conference has been able to resolve this difficulty . We have agreed that a conference of United Nations should be called to meet at San Francisco in the United States on April 25 , 1945 , to prepare the charter of such an organization , along the lines proposed in the informal conversations at Dumbarton Oaks . The Government of China and the Provisional Government of France will be immediately consulted and invited to sponsor invitations to the conference jointly with the Governments of the United States , Great Britain , and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics . As soon as the consultation with China and France has been completed , the text of the proposals on voting procedure will be made public . The Premier of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics , the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom , and the President of the United States of America have consulted with each other in the common interests of the peoples of their countries and those of liberated Europe . They jointly declare their mutual agreement to concert during the temporary period of instability in liberated Europe the policies of their three Governments in assisting the peoples liberated from the domination of Nazi Germany and the peoples of the former Axis satellite states of Europe to solve by democratic means their pressing political and economic problems . The establishment of order in Europe and the rebuilding of national economic life must be achieved by processes which will enable the liberated peoples to destroy the last vestiges of Nazism and Fascism and to create democratic institutions of their own choice . This is a principle of the Atlantic Charter the right of all peoples to choose the form of government under which they will live the restoration of sovereign rights and self government to those peoples who have been forcibly deprived of them by the aggressor Nations . To foster the conditions in which the liberated peoples may exercise these rights , the three Governments will jointly assist the people in any European liberated state or former Axis satellite state in Europe where in their judgment conditions require a to establish conditions of internal peace b to carry out emergency measures for the relief of distressed peoples c to form interim governmental authorities broadly representative of all democratic elements in the population and pledged to the earliest possible establishment through free elections of governments responsive to the will of the people and d to facilitate where necessary the holding of such elections . The three Governments will consult the other United Nations and provisional authorities or other Governments in Europe when matters of direct interest to them are under consideration . When , in the opinion of the three Governments , conditions in any European liberated state or any former Axis satellite state in Europe make such action necessary , they will immediately consult together on the measures necessary to discharge the joint responsibilities set forth in this declaration . By this declaration we reaffirm our faith in the principles of the Atlantic Charter , our pledge in the declaration by the United Nations , and our determination to build in cooperation with other peace loving Nations world order under law , dedicated to peace , security , freedom , and general well being of all mankind . In issuing this declaration , the three powers express the hope that the Provisional Government of the French Republic may be associated with them in the procedure suggested . A new situation has been created in Poland as a result of her complete liberation by the Red Army . This calls for the establishment of a Polish provisional government which can be more broadly based than was possible before the recent liberation of western Poland . The provisional government which is now functioning in Poland should therefore be reorganized on a broader democratic basis with the inclusion of democratic leaders from Poland itself and from Poles abroad . This new government should then be called the Polish Provisional Government of National Unity . Molotov , Harriman , and Sir Clark Kerr are authorized as a commission to consult in the first instance in Moscow with members of the present provisional government and with other Polish democratic leaders from within Poland and from abroad , with a view to the reorganization of the present government along the above lines . This Polish Provisional Government of National Unity shall be pledged to the holding of free and unfettered elections as soon as possible on the basis of universal suffrage and secret ballot . In these elections all democratic and anti Nazi parties shall have the right to take part and to put forward candidates . When a Polish Provisional Government of National Unity has been properly formed in conformity with the above , the Government of the R . , which now maintains diplomatic relations with the present provisional government of Poland , and the Government of the United Kingdom and the Government of the will establish diplomatic relations with the new Polish Provisional Government of National Unity , and will exchange ambassadors by whose reports the respective Governments will be kept informed about the situation in Poland . The three heads of government consider that the eastern frontier of Poland should follow the Curzon line with digressions from it in some regions of five to eight kilometers in favor of Poland . They recognized that Poland must receive substantial accessions of territory in the North and West . They feel that the opinion of the new Polish Provisional Government of National Unity should be sought in due course on the extent of these accessions and that the final delimitation of the western frontier of Poland should thereafter await the peace conference . We have agreed to recommend to Marshal Tito and Subasic that the agreement between them should be put into effect immediately , and that a new government should be formed on the basis of that agreement . We also recommend that as soon as the new government has been formed it should declare that 1 . The anti Fascist Assembly of National Liberation Avnoj should be extended to include members of the last Yugoslav Parliament Skupschina who have not compromised themselves by collaboration with the enemy , thus forming a body to be known as a temporary Parliament and , 2 . Legislative acts passed by the anti Fascist Assembly of National Liberation will be subject to subsequent ratification by a constituent assembly . There was also a general review of other Balkan questions . Throughout the Conference , besides the daily meetings of the heads of governments and the Foreign Secretaries , separate meetings of the three Foreign Secretaries , and their advisers have also been held daily . These meetings have proved of the utmost value and the Conference agreed that permanent machinery should be set up for regular consultation between the three Foreign Secretaries . They will , therefore , meet as often as may be necessary , probably about every three or four months . These meetings will be held in rotation in the three capitals , the first meeting being held in London , after the United Nations Conference on World Organization . Our meeting here in the Crimea has reaffirmed our common determination to maintain and strengthen in the peace to come that unity of purpose and of action which has made victory possible and certain for the United Nations in this war . We believe that this is a sacred obligation which our Governments owe to our peoples and to all the peoples of the world . Only with the continuing and growing cooperation and understanding among our three countries and among all the peace loving Nations can the highest aspiration of humanity be realized a secure and lasting peace which will , in the words of the Atlantic Charter , afford assurance that all the men in all the lands may live out their lives in freedom from fear and want . Victory in this war and establishment of the proposed international organization will provide the greatest opportunity in all history to create in the years to come the essential conditions of such a peace . STALIN<speech_sep>My Fellow Americans The sudden criminal attacks perpetrated by the Japanese in the Pacific provide the climax of a decade of international immorality . Powerful and resourceful gangsters have banded together to make war upon the whole human race . Their challenge has now been flung at the United States of America . The Japanese have treacherously violated the longstanding peace between us . Many American soldiers and sailors have been killed by enemy action . American ships have been sunk American airplanes have been destroyed . The Congress and the people of the United States have accepted that challenge . Together with other free peoples , we are now fighting to maintain our right to live among our world neighbors in freedom , in common decency , without fear of assault . I have prepared the full record of our past relations with Japan , and it will be submitted to the Congress . It begins with the visit of Commodore Parry to Japan eighty eight years ago . It ends with the visit of two Japanese emissaries to the Secretary of State last Sunday , an hour after Japanese forces had loosed their bombs and machine guns against our flag , our forces and our citizens . I can say with utmost confidence that no Americans today or a thousand years hence , need feel anything but pride in our patience and in our efforts through all the years toward achieving a peace in the Pacific which would be fair and honorable to every nation , large or small . And no honest person , today or a thousand years hence , will be able to suppress a sense of indignation and horror at the treachery committed by the military dictators of Japan , under the very shadow of the flag of peace borne by their special envoys in our midst . The course that Japan has followed for the past ten years in Asia has paralleled the course of Hitler and Mussolini in Europe and in Africa . Today , it has become far more than a parallel . It is actual collaboration so well calculated that all the continents of the world , and all the oceans , are now considered by the Axis strategists as one gigantic battlefield . In 1931 , ten years ago , Japan invaded Manchukuo without warning . In 1935 , Italy invaded Ethiopia without warning . In 1938 , Hitler occupied Austria without warning . In 1939 , Hitler invaded Czechoslovakia without warning . Later in 39 , Hitler invaded Poland without warning . In 1940 , Hitler invaded Norway , Denmark , the Netherlands , Belgium and Luxembourg without warning . In 1940 , Italy attacked France and later Greece without warning . And this year , in 1941 , the Axis Powers attacked Yugoslavia and Greece and they dominated the Balkans without warning . In 1941 , also , Hitler invaded Russia without warning . And now Japan has attacked Malaya and Thailand and the United States without warning . It is all of one pattern . We are now in this war . We are all in it all the way . Every single man , woman and child is a partner in the most tremendous undertaking of our American history . We must share together the bad news and the good news , the defeats and the victories the changing fortunes of war . So far , the news has been all bad . We have suffered a serious setback in Hawaii . Our forces in the Philippines , which include the brave people of that Commonwealth , are taking punishment , but are defending themselves vigorously . The reports from Guam and Wake and Midway Islands are still confused , but we must be prepared for the announcement that all these three outposts have been seized . The casualty lists of these first few days will undoubtedly be large . I deeply feel the anxiety of all of the families of the men in our armed forces and the relatives of people in cities which have been bombed . I can only give them my solemn promise that they will get news just as quickly as possible . This Government will put its trust in the stamina of the American people , and will give the facts to the public just as soon as two conditions have been fulfilled first , that the information has been definitely and officially confirmed and , second , that the release of the information at the time it is received will not prove valuable to the enemy directly or indirectly . Most earnestly I urge my countrymen to reject all rumors . These ugly little hints of complete disaster fly thick and fast in wartime . They have to be examined and appraised . As an example , I can tell you frankly that until further surveys are made , I have not sufficient information to state the exact damage which has been done to our naval vessels at Pearl Harbor . Admittedly the damage is serious . But no one can say how serious , until we know how much of this damage can be repaired and how quickly the necessary repairs can be made . I cite as another example a statement made on Sunday night that a Japanese carrier had been located and sunk off the Canal Zone . And when you hear statements that are attributed to what they call an authoritative source , you can be reasonably sure from now on that under these war circumstances the authoritative source is not any person in authority . Many rumors and reports which we now hear originate , of course , with enemy sources . For instance , today the Japanese are claiming that as a result of their one action against Hawaii they hare gained naval supremacy in the Pacific . This is an old trick of propaganda which has been used innumerable times by the Nazis . The purposes of such fantastic claims are , of course , to spread fear and confusion among us , and to goad us into revealing military information which our enemies are desperately anxious to obtain . Our Government will not be caught in this obvious trap and neither will the people of the United States . It must be remembered by each and every one of us that our free and rapid communication these days must be greatly restricted in wartime . It is not possible to receive full and speedy and accurate reports front distant areas of combat . This is particularly true where naval operations are concerned . For in these days of the marvels of the radio it is often impossible for the Commanders of various units to report their activities by radio at all , for the very simple reason that this information would become available to the enemy and would disclose their position and their plan of defense or attack . Of necessity there will be delays in officially confirming or denying reports of operations , but we will not hide facts from the country if we know the facts and if the enemy will not be aided by their disclosure . To all newspapers and radio stations all those who reach the eyes and ears of the American people I say this You have a most grave responsibility to the nation now and for the duration of this war . If you feel that your Government is not disclosing enough of the truth , you have every right to say so . But in the absence of all the facts , as revealed by official sources , you have no right in the ethics of patriotism to deal out unconfirmed reports in such a way as to make people believe that they are gospel truth . Every citizen , in every walk of life , shares this same responsibility . The lives of our soldiers and sailors the whole future of this nation depend upon the manner in which each and every one of us fulfills his obligation to our country . Now a word about the recent past and the future . A year and a half has elapsed since the fall of France , when the whole world first realized the mechanized might which the Axis nations had been building up for so many years . America has used that year and a half to great advantage . Knowing that the attack might reach us in all too short a time , we immediately began greatly to increase our industrial strength and our capacity to meet the demands of modern warfare . Precious months were gained by sending vast quantities of our war material to the nations of the world still able to resist Axis aggression . Our policy rested on the fundamental truth that the defense of any country resisting Hitler or Japan was in the long run the defense of our own country . That policy has been justified . It has given us time , invaluable time , to build our American assembly lines of production . Assembly lines are now in operation . Others are being rushed to completion . A steady stream of tanks and planes , of guns and ships and shells and equipment that is what these eighteen months have given us . But it is all only a beginning of what still has to be done . We must be set to face a long war against crafty and powerful bandits . The attack at Pearl Harbor can be repeated at any one of many points , points in both oceans and along both our coast lines and against all the rest of the Hemisphere . It will not only be a long war , it will be a hard war . That is the basis on which we now lay all our plans . That is the yardstick by which we measure what we shall need and demand money , materials , doubled and quadrupled production ever increasing . The production must be not only for our own Army and Navy and air forces . It must reinforce the other armies and navies and air forces fighting the Nazis and the war lords of Japan throughout the Americas and throughout the world . I have been working today on the subject of production . Your Government has decided on two broad policies . The first is to speed up all existing production by working on a seven day week basis in every war industry , including the production of essential raw materials . The second policy , now being put into form , is to rush additions to the capacity of production by building more new plants , by adding to old plants , and by using the many smaller plants for war needs . Over the hard road of the past months , we have at times met obstacles and difficulties , divisions and disputes , indifference and callousness . That is now all past and , I am sure , forgotten . The fact is that the country now has an organization in Washington built around men and women who are recognized experts in their own fields . I think the country knows that the people who are actually responsible in each and every one of these many fields are pulling together with a teamwork that has never before been excelled . On the road ahead there lies hard work grueling work day and night , every hour and every minute . I was about to add that ahead there lies sacrifice for all of us . But it is not correct to use that word . The United States does not consider it a sacrifice to do all one can , to give one s best to our nation , when the nation is fighting for its existence and its future life . It is not a sacrifice for any man , old or young , to be in the Army or the Navy of the United States . Rather it is a privilege . It is not a sacrifice for the industrialist or the wage earner , the farmer or the shopkeeper , the trainmen or the doctor , to pay more taxes , to buy more bonds , to forego extra profits , to work longer or harder at the task for which he is best fitted . Rather it is a privilege . It is not a sacrifice to do without many things to which we are accustomed if the national defense calls for doing without it . A review this morning leads me to the conclusion that at present we shall not have to curtail the normal use of articles of food . There is enough food today for all of us and enough left over to send to those who are fighting on the same side with us . But there will be a clear and definite shortage of metals for many kinds of civilian use , for the very good reason that in our increased program we shall need for war purposes more than half of that portion of the principal metals which during the past year have gone into articles for civilian use . Yes , we shall have to give up many things entirely . And I am sure that the people in every part of the nation are prepared in their individual living to win this war . I am sure that they will cheerfully help to pay a large part of its financial cost while it goes on . I am sure they will cheerfully give up those material things that they are asked to give up . And I am sure that they will retain all those great spiritual things without which we cannot win through . I repeat that the United States can accept no result save victory , final and complete . Not only must the shame of Japanese treachery be wiped out , but the sources of international brutality , wherever they exist , must be absolutely and finally broken . In my Message to the Congress yesterday I said that we will make very certain that this form of treachery shall never endanger us again . In order to achieve that certainty , we must begin the great task that is before us by abandoning once and for all the illusion that we can ever again isolate ourselves from the rest of humanity . In these past few years and , most violently , in the past three days we have learned a terrible lesson . It is our obligation to our dead it is our sacred obligation to their children and to our children that we must never forget what we have learned . And what we have learned is this There is no such thing as security for any nation or any individual in a world ruled by the principles of gangsterism . There is no such thing as impregnable defense against powerful aggressors who sneak up in the dark and strike without warning . We have learned that our ocean girt hemisphere is not immune from severe attack that we cannot measure our safety in terms of miles on any map any more . We may acknowledge that our enemies have performed a brilliant feat of deception , perfectly timed and executed with great skill . It was a thoroughly dishonorable deed , but we must face the fact that modern warfare as conducted in the Nazi manner is a dirty business . We do not like it we did not want to get in it but we are in it and we are going to fight it with everything we have got . I do not think any American has any doubt of our ability to administer proper punishment to the perpetrators of these crimes . Your Government knows that for weeks Germany has been telling Japan that if Japan did not attack the United States , Japan would not share in dividing the spoils with Germany when peace came . She was promised by Germany that if she came in she would receive the complete and perpetual control of the whole of the Pacific area and that means not only the Ear East , but also all of the Islands in the Pacific , and also a stranglehold on the west coast of North , Central and South America . We know also that Germany and Japan are conducting their military and naval operations in accordance with a joint plan . That plan considers all peoples and nations which are not helping the Axis powers as common enemies of each and every one of the Axis powers . That is their simple and obvious grand strategy . And that is why the American people must realize that it can be matched only with similar grand strategy . We must realize for example that Japanese successes against the United States in the Pacific are helpful to German operations in Libya that any German success against the Caucasus is inevitably an assistance to Japan in her operations against the Dutch East Indies that a German attack against Algiers or Morocco opens the way to a German attack against South America and the Canal . On the other side of the picture , we must learn also to know that guerilla warfare against the Germans in , let us say Serbia or Norway , helps us that a successful Russian offensive against the Germans helps us and that British successes on land or sea in any part of the world strengthen our hands . Remember always that Germany and Italy , regardless of any formal declaration of war , consider themselves at war with the United States at this moment just as much as they consider themselves at war with Britain or Russia . And Germany puts all the other Republics of the Americas into the same category of enemies . The people of our sister Republics of this Hemisphere can be honored by that fact . The true goal we seek is far above and beyond the ugly field of battle . When we resort to force , as now we must , we are determined that this force shall be directed toward ultimate good as well as against immediate evil . We Americans are not destroyers we are builders . We are now in the midst of a war , not for conquest , not for vengeance , but for a world in which this nation , and all that this nation represents , will be safe for our children . We expect to eliminate the danger from Japan , but it would serve us ill if we accomplished that and found that the rest of the world was dominated by Hitler and Mussolini . So we are going to win the war and we are going to win the peace that follows . And in the difficult hours of this day through dark days that may be yet to come we will know that the vast majority of the members of the human race are on our side . Many of them are fighting with us . All of them are praying for us . But , in representing our cause , we represent theirs as well our hope and their hope for liberty under God .<speech_sep>Senator Wagner , Governor Lehman , ladies and gentlemen On the eve of a national election , it is well for us to stop for a moment and analyze calmly and without prejudice the effect on our Nation of a victory by either of the major political parties . The problem of the electorate is far deeper , far more vital than the continuance in the Presidency of any individual . For the greater issue goes beyond units of humanity it goes to humanity itself . In 1932 the issue was the restoration of American democracy and the American people were in a mood to win . They did win . In 1936 the issue is the preservation of their victory . Again they are in a mood to win . Again they will win . More than four years ago in accepting the Democratic nomination in Chicago , I said Give me your help not to win votes alone , but to win in this crusade to restore America to its own people . The banners of that crusade still fly in the van of a Nation that is on the march . It is needless to repeat the details of the program which this Administration has been hammering out on the anvils of experience . No amount of misrepresentation or statistical contortion can conceal or blur or smear that record . Neither the attacks of unscrupulous enemies nor the exaggerations of over zealous friends will serve to mislead the American people . What was our hope in 1932 Above all other things the American people wanted peace . They wanted peace of mind instead of gnawing fear . First , they sought escape from the personal terror which had stalked them for three years . They wanted the peace that comes from security in their homes safety for their savings , permanence in their jobs , a fair profit from their enterprise . Next , they wanted peace in the community , the peace that springs from the ability to meet the needs of community life schools , playgrounds , parks , sanitation , highways those things which are expected of solvent local government . They sought escape from disintegration and bankruptcy in local and state affairs . They also sought peace within the Nation protection of their currency , fairer wages , the ending of long hours of toil , the abolition of child labor , the elimination of wild cat speculation , the safety of their children from kidnappers . And , finally , they sought peace with other Nations peace in a world of unrest . The Nation knows that I hate war , and I know that the Nation hates war . I submit to you a record of peace and on that record a well founded expectation for future peace peace for the individual , peace for the community , peace for the Nation , and peace with the world . Tonight I call the roll the roll of honor of those who stood with us in 1932 and still stand with us today . Written on it are the names of millions who never had a chance men at starvation wages , women in sweatshops , children at looms . Written on it are the names of those who despaired , young men and young women for whom opportunity had become a will o the wisp . Written on it are the names of farmers whose acres yielded only bitterness , business men whose books were portents of disaster , home owners who were faced with eviction , frugal citizens whose savings were insecure . Written there in large letters are the names of countless other Americans of all parties and all faiths , Americans who had eyes to see and hearts to understand , whose consciences were burdened because too many of their fellows were burdened , who looked on these things four years ago and said , This can be changed . We will change it . We still lead that army in 1936 . They stood with us then because in 1932 they believed . They stand with us today because in 1936 they know . And with them stand millions of new recruits who have come to know . Their hopes have become our record . We have not come this far without a struggle and I assure you we cannot go further without a struggle . For twelve years this Nation was afflicted with hear nothing , see nothing , do nothing Government . The Nation looked to Government but the Government looked away . Nine mocking years with the golden calf and three long years of the scourge Nine crazy years at the ticker and three long years in the breadlines Nine mad years of mirage and three long years of despair Powerful influences strive today to restore that kind of government with its doctrine that that Government is best which is most indifferent . For nearly four years you have had an Administration which instead of twirling its thumbs has rolled up its sleeves . We will keep our sleeves rolled up . We had to struggle with the old enemies of peace business and financial monopoly , speculation , reckless banking , class antagonism , sectionalism , war profiteering . They had begun to consider the Government of the United States as a mere appendage to their own affairs . We know now that Government by organized money is just as dangerous as Government by organized mob . Never before in all our history have these forces been so united against one candidate as they stand today . They are unanimous in their hate for me and I welcome their hatred . I should like to have it said of my first Administration that in it the forces of selfishness and of lust for power met their match . I should like to have it said of my second Administration that in it these forces met their master . The American people know from a four year record that today there is only one entrance to the White House by the front door . Since March 4 , 1933 , there has been only one pass key to the White House . I have carried that key in my pocket . It is there tonight . So long as I am President , it will remain in my pocket . Those who used to have pass keys are not happy . Some of them are desperate . Only desperate men with their backs to the wall would descend so far below the level of decent citizenship as to foster the current pay envelope campaign against America s working people . Only reckless men , heedless of consequences , would risk the disruption of the hope for a new peace between worker and employer by returning to the tactics of the labor spy . Here is an amazing paradox The very employers and politicians and publishers who talk most loudly of class antagonism and the destruction of the American system now undermine that system by this attempt to coerce the votes of the wage earners of this country . It is the 1936 version of the old threat to close down the factory or the office if a particular candidate does not win . It is an old strategy of tyrants to delude their victims into fighting their battles for them . Every message in a pay envelope , even if it is the truth , is a command to vote according to the will of the employer . But this propaganda is worse it is deceit . They tell the worker his wage will be reduced by a contribution to some vague form of old age insurance . They carefully conceal from him the fact that for every dollar of premium he pays for that insurance , the employer pays another dollar . That omission is deceit . They carefully conceal from him the fact that under the federal law , he receives another insurance policy to help him if he loses his job , and that the premium of that policy is paid 100 percent by the employer and not one cent by the worker . They do not tell him that the insurance policy that is bought for him is far more favorable to him than any policy that any private insurance company could afford to issue . That omission is deceit . They imply to him that he pays all the cost of both forms of insurance . They carefully conceal from him the fact that for every dollar put up by him his employer puts up three dollars three for one . And that omission is deceit . But they are guilty of more than deceit . When they imply that the reserves thus created against both these policies will be stolen by some future Congress , diverted to some wholly foreign purpose , they attack the integrity and honor of American Government itself . Those who suggest that , are already aliens to the spirit of American democracy . Let them emigrate and try their lot under some foreign flag in which they have more confidence . The fraudulent nature of this attempt is well shown by the record of votes on the passage of the Social Security Act . In addition to an overwhelming majority of Democrats in both Houses , seventy seven Republican Representatives voted for it and only eighteen against it and fifteen Republican Senators voted for it and only five against it . Where does this last minute drive of the Republican leadership leave these Republican Representatives and Senators who helped enact this law I am sure the vast majority of law abiding businessmen who are not parties to this propaganda fully appreciate the extent of the threat to honest business contained in this coercion . I have expressed indignation at this form of campaigning and I am confident that the overwhelming majority of employers , workers and the general public share that indignation and will show it at the polls on Tuesday next . Aside from this phase of it , I prefer to remember this campaign not as bitter but only as hard fought . There should be no bitterness or hate where the sole thought is the welfare of the United States of America . No man can occupy the office of President without realizing that he is President of all the people . It is because I have sought to think in terms of the whole Nation that I am confident that today , just as four years ago , the people want more than promises . Our vision for the future contains more than promises . This is our answer to those who , silent about their own plans , ask us to state our objectives . Of course we will continue to seek to improve working conditions for the workers of America to reduce hours over long , to increase wages that spell starvation , to end the labor of children , to wipe out sweatshops . Of course we will continue every effort to end monopoly in business , to support collective bargaining , to stop unfair competition , to abolish dishonorable trade practices . For all these we have only just begun to fight . Of course we will continue to work for cheaper electricity in the homes and on the farms of America , for better and cheaper transportation , for low interest rates , for sounder home financing , for better banking , for the regulation of security issues , for reciprocal trade among nations , for the wiping out of slums . For all these we have only just begun to fight . Of course we will continue our efforts in behalf of the farmers of America . With their continued cooperation we will do all in our power to end the piling up of huge surpluses which spelled ruinous prices for their crops . We will persist in successful action for better land use , for reforestation , for the conservation of water all the way from its source to the sea , for drought and flood control , for better marketing facilities for farm commodities , for a definite reduction of farm tenancy , for encouragement of farmer cooperatives , for crop insurance and a stable food supply . For all these we have only just begun to fight . Of course we will provide useful work for the needy unemployed we prefer useful work to the pauperism of a dole . Here and now I want to make myself clear about those who disparage their fellow citizens on the relief rolls . They say that those on relief are not merely jobless that they are worthless . Their solution for the relief problem is to end relief to purge the rolls by starvation . To use the language of the stock broker , our needy unemployed would be cared for when , as , and if some fairy godmother should happen on the scene . You and I will continue to refuse to accept that estimate of our unemployed fellow Americans . Your Government is still on the same side of the street with the Good Samaritan and not with those who pass by on the other side . Again what of our objectives Of course we will continue our efforts for young men and women so that they may obtain an education and an opportunity to put it to use . Of course we will continue our help for the crippled , for the blind , for the mothers , our insurance for the unemployed , our security for the aged . Of course we will continue to protect the consumer against unnecessary price spreads , against the costs that are added by monopoly and speculation . We will continue our successful efforts to increase his purchasing power and to keep it constant . For these things , too , and for a multitude of others like them , we have only just begun to fight . All this all these objectives spell peace at home . All our actions , all our ideals , spell also peace with other nations . Today there is war and rumor of war . We want none of it . But while we guard our shores against threats of war , we will continue to remove the causes of unrest and antagonism at home which might make our people easier victims to those for whom foreign war is profitable . You know well that those who stand to profit by war are not on our side in this campaign . Peace on earth , good will toward men democracy must cling to that message . For it is my deep conviction that democracy cannot live without that true religion which gives a nation a sense of justice and of moral purpose . Above our political forums , above our market places stand the altars of our faith altars on which burn the fires of devotion that maintain all that is best in us and all that is best in our Nation . We have need of that devotion today . It is that which makes it possible for government to persuade those who are mentally prepared to fight each other to go on instead , to work for and to sacrifice for each other . That is why we need to say with the Prophet What doth the Lord require of thee but to do justly , to love mercy and to walk humbly with thy God . That is why the recovery we seek , the recovery we are winning , is more than economic . In it are included justice and love and humility , not for ourselves as individuals alone , but for our Nation . That is the road to peace .<speech_sep>Senator Robinson , Members of the Democratic Convention , my friends Here , and in every community throughout the land , we are met at a time of great moment to the future of the Nation . It is an occasion to be dedicated to the simple and sincere expression of an attitude toward problems , the determination of which will profoundly affect America . I come not only as a leader of a party , not only as a candidate for high office , but as one upon whom many critical hours have imposed and still impose a grave responsibility . For the sympathy , help and confidence with which Americans have sustained me in my task I am grateful . For their loyalty I salute the members of our great party , in and out of political life in every part of the Union . I salute those of other parties , especially those in the Congress of the United States who on so many occasions have put partisanship aside . I thank the Governors of the several States , their Legislatures , their State and local officials who participated unselfishly and regardless of party in our efforts to achieve recovery and destroy abuses . Above all I thank the millions of Americans who have borne disaster bravely and have dared to smile through the storm . America will not forget these recent years , will not forget that the rescue was not a mere party task . It was the concern of all of us . In our strength we rose together , rallied our energies together , applied the old rules of common sense , and together survived . In those days we feared fear . That was why we fought fear . And today , my friends , we have won against the most dangerous of our foes . We have conquered fear . But I cannot , with candor , tell you that all is well with the world . Clouds of suspicion , tides of ill will and intolerance gather darkly in many places . In our own land we enjoy indeed a fullness of life greater than that of most Nations . But the rush of modern civilization itself has raised for us new difficulties , new problems which must be solved if we are to preserve to the United States the political and economic freedom for which Washington and Jefferson planned and fought . Philadelphia is a good city in which to write American history . This is fitting ground on which to reaffirm the faith of our fathers to pledge ourselves to restore to the people a wider freedom to give to 1936 as the founders gave to 1776 an American way of life . That very word freedom , in itself and of necessity , suggests freedom from some restraining power . In 1776 we sought freedom from the tyranny of a political autocracy from the eighteenth century royalists who held special privileges from the crown . It was to perpetuate their privilege that they governed without the consent of the governed that they denied the right of free assembly and free speech that they restricted the worship of God that they put the average man s property and the average man s life in pawn to the mercenaries of dynastic power that they regimented the people . And so it was to win freedom from the tyranny of political autocracy that the American Revolution was fought . That victory gave the business of governing into the hands of the average man , who won the right with his neighbors to make and order his own destiny through his own Government . Political tyranny was wiped out at Philadelphia on July 4 , 1776 . Since that struggle , however , man s inventive genius released new forces in our land which reordered the lives of our people . The age of machinery , of railroads of steam and electricity the telegraph and the radio mass production , mass distribution all of these combined to bring forward a new civilization and with it a new problem for those who sought to remain free . For out of this modern civilization economic royalists carved new dynasties . New kingdoms were built upon concentration of control over material things . Through new uses of corporations , banks and securities , new machinery of industry and agriculture , of labor and capital all undreamed of by the fathers the whole structure of modern life was impressed into this royalservice . There was no place among this royalty for our many thousands of small business men and merchants who sought to make a worthy use of the American system of initiative and profit . They were no more free than the worker or the farmer . Even honest and progressive minded men of wealth , aware of their obligation to their generation , could never know just where they fitted into this dynastic scheme of things . It was natural and perhaps human that the privileged princes of these new economic dynasties , thirsting for power , reached out for control over Government itself . They created a new despotism and wrapped it in the robes of legal sanction . In its service new mercenaries sought to regiment the people , their labor , and their property . And as a result the average man once more confronts the problem that faced the Minute Man . The hours men and women worked , the wages they received , the conditions of their labor these had passed beyond the control of the people , and were imposed by this new industrial dictatorship . The savings of the average family , the capital of the small business man , the investments set aside for old age other people s money these were tools which the new economic royalty used to dig itself in . Those who tilled the soil no longer reaped the rewards which were their right . The small measure of their gains was decreed by men in distant cities . Throughout the Nation , opportunity was limited by monopoly . Individual initiative was crushed in the cogs of a great machine . The field open for free business was more and more restricted . Private enterprise , indeed , became too private . It became privileged enterprise , not free enterprise . An old English judge once said Necessitous men are not free men . Liberty requires opportunity to make a living a living decent according to the standard of the time , a living which gives man not only enough to live by , but something to live for . For too many of us the political equality we once had won was meaningless in the face of economic inequality . A small group had concentrated into their own hands an almost complete control over other people s property , other people s money , other people s labor , other people s lives . For too many of us life was no longer free liberty no longer real men could no longer follow the pursuit of happiness . Against economic tyranny such as this , the American citizen could appeal only to the organized power of Government . The collapse of 1929 showed up the despotism for what it was . The election of 1932 was the people s mandate to end it . Under that mandate it is being ended . The royalists of the economic order have conceded that political freedom was the business of the Government , but they have maintained that economic slavery was nobody s business . They granted that the Government could protect the citizen in his right to vote , but they denied that the Government could do anything to protect the citizen in his right to work and his right to live . Today we stand committed to the proposition that freedom is no half and half affair . If the average citizen is guaranteed equal opportunity in the polling place , he must have equal opportunity in the market place . These economic royalists complain that we seek to overthrow the institutions of America . What they really complain of is that we seek to take away their power . Our allegiance to American institutions requires the overthrow of this kind of power . In vain they seek to hide behind the Flag and the Constitution . In their blindness they forget what the Flag and the Constitution stand for . Now , as always , they stand for democracy , not tyranny for freedom , not subjection and against a dictatorship by mob rule and the over privileged alike . The brave and clear platform adopted by this Convention , to which I heartily subscribe , sets forth that Government in a modern civilization has certain inescapable obligations to its citizens , among which are protection of the family and the home , the establishment of a democracy of opportunity , and aid to those overtaken by disaster . But the resolute enemy within our gates is ever ready to beat down our words unless in greater courage we will fight for them . For more than three years we have fought for them . This Convention , in every word and deed , has pledged that that fight will go on . The defeats and victories of these years have given to us as a people a new understanding of our Government and of ourselves . Never since the early days of the New England town meeting have the affairs of Government been so widely discussed and so clearly appreciated . It has been brought home to us that the only effective guide for the safety of this most worldly of worlds , the greatest guide of all , is moral principle . We do not see faith , hope and charity as unattainable ideals , but we use them as stout supports of a Nation fighting the fight for freedom in a modern civilization . Faith in the soundness of democracy in the midst of dictatorships . Hope renewed because we know so well the progress we have made . Charity in the true spirit of that grand old word . For charity literally translated from the original means love , the love that understands , that does not merely share the wealth of the giver , but in true sympathy and wisdom helps men to help themselves . We seek not merely to make Government a mechanical implement , but to give it the vibrant personal character that is the very embodiment of human charity . We are poor indeed if this Nation cannot afford to lift from every recess of American life the dread fear of the unemployed that they are not needed in the world . We cannot afford to accumulate a deficit in the books of human fortitude . In the place of the palace of privilege we seek to build a temple out of faith and hope and charity . It is a sobering thing , my friends , to be a servant of this great cause . We try in our daily work to remember that the cause belongs not to us , but to the people . The standard is not in the hands of you and me alone . It is carried by America . We seek daily to profit from experience , to learn to do better as our task proceeds . Governments can err , Presidents do make mistakes , but the immortal Dante tells us that divine justice weighs the sins of the cold blooded and the sins of the warm hearted in different scales . Better the occasional faults of a Government that lives in a spirit of charity than the consistent omissions of a Government frozen in the ice of its own indifference . There is a mysterious cycle in human events . To some generations much is given . Of other generations much is expected . This generation of Americans has a rendezvous with destiny . In this world of ours in other lands , there are some people , who , in times past , have lived and fought for freedom , and seem to have grown too weary to carry on the fight . They have sold their heritage of freedom for the illusion of a living . They have yielded their democracy . I believe in my heart that only our success can stir their ancient hope . They begin to know that here in America we are waging a great and successful war . It is not alone a war against want and destitution and economic demoralization . It is more than that it is a war for the survival of democracy . We are fighting to save a great and precious form of government forourselves and for the world . I accept the commission you have tendered me . I join with you . I am enlisted for the duration of the war .<speech_sep>My fellow Americans Washington s Birthday is a most appropriate occasion for us to talk with each other about things as they are today and things as we know they shall be in the future . For eight years , General Washington and his Continental Army were faced continually with formidable odds and recurring defeats . Supplies and equipment were lacking . In a sense , every winter was a Valley Forge . Throughout the 13 states there existed fifth columnists and selfish men , jealous men , fearful men , who proclaimed that Washington s cause was hopeless , and that he should ask for a negotiated peace . Washington s conduct in those hard times has provided the model for all Americans ever since a model of moral stamina . He held to his course , as it had been charted in the Declaration of Independence . He and the brave men who served with him knew that no man s life or fortune was secure without freedom and free institutions . The present great struggle has taught us increasingly that freedom of person and security of property anywhere in the world depend upon the security of the rights and obligations of liberty and justice everywhere in the world . This war is a new kind of war . It is different from all other wars of the past , not only in its methods and weapons but also in its geography . It is warfare in terms of every continent , every island , every sea , every air lane in the world . That is the reason why I have asked you to take out and spread before you the a map of the whole earth , and to follow with me in the references which I shall make to the world encircling battle lines of this war . Many questions will , I fear , remain unanswered tonight , but I know you will realize that I cannot cover everything in any one short report to the people . The broad oceans which have been heralded in the past as our protection from attack have become endless battlefields on which we are constantly being challenged by our enemies . We must all understand and face the hard fact that our job now is to fight at distances which extend all the way around the globe . We fight at these vast distances because that is where our enemies are . Until our flow of supplies gives us clear superiority we must keep on striking our enemies wherever and whenever we can meet them , even if , for a while , we have to yield ground . Actually , though , we are taking a heavy toll of the enemy every day that goes by . We must fight at these vast distances to protect our supply lines and our lines of communication with our allies protect these lines from the enemies who are bending every ounce of their strength , striving against time , to cut them . The object of the Nazis and the Japanese is to of course separate the United States , Britain , China and Russia , and to isolate them one from another , so that each will be surrounded and cut off from sources of supplies and reinforcements . It is the old familiar Axis policy of divide and conquer . There are those who still think , however , in terms of the days of sailing ships . They advise us to pull our warships and our planes and our merchant ships into our own home waters and concentrate solely on last ditch defense . But let me illustrate what would happen if we followed such foolish advice . Look at your map . Look at the vast area of China , with its millions of fighting men . Look at the vast area of Russia , with its powerful armies and proven military might . Look at the British Isles Islands of Britain , Australia , New Zealand , the Dutch Indies , India , the Near East and the Continent of Africa , with their re sources of raw materials their resources of raw materials , and of peoples determined to resist Axis domination . Look too at North America , Central America and South America . It is obvious what would happen if all of these great reservoirs of power were cut off from each other either by enemy action or by self imposed isolation 1 . First , in such a case , we could no longer send aid of any kind to China to the brave people who , for nearly five years , have withstood Japanese assault , destroyed hundreds of thousands of Japanese soldiers and vast quantities of Japanese war munitions . It is essential that we help China in her magnificent defense and in her inevitable counteroffensive for that is one important element in the ultimate defeat of Japan . 2 . Secondly , if we lost communication with the southwest Pacific , all of that area , including Australia and New Zealand and the Dutch Indies , would fall under Japanese domination . Japan in such a case could then release great numbers of ships and men to launch attacks on a large scale against the coasts of the Western Hemisphere South America and Central America , and North America including Alaska . At the same time , she could immediately extend her conquests to in the other direction toward India , and through the Indian Ocean , to Africa , and to the Near East and try to join forces with Germany and Italy . 3 . Third , if we were to stop sending munitions to the British and the Russians in the Mediterranean area , and in the Persian Gulf and the Red Sea , areas we would be helping the Nazis to overrun Turkey , and Syria , and Iraq , and Persia that is now called Iran Egypt and the Suez Canal , the whole coast of North Africa itself and with that inevitably the whole coast of West Africa putting Germany within easy striking distance of South America 1 , 500 miles away . 4 . Fourth , if by such a fatuous policy , we ceased to protect the North Atlantic supply line to Britain and to Russia , we would help to cripple the splendid counter offensive by Russia against the Nazis , and we would help to deprive Britain of essential food supplies and munitions . Those Americans who believed that we could live under the illusion of isolationism wanted the American eagle to imitate the tactics of the ostrich . Now , many of those same people , afraid that we may be sticking our necks out , want our national bird to be turned into a turtle . But we prefer to retain the eagle as it is flying high and striking hard . I know that I speak for the mass of the American people when I say that we reject the turtle policy and will continue increasingly the policy of carrying the war to the enemy in distant lands and distant waters as far away as possible from our own home grounds . There are four main lines of communication now being traveled by our ships the North Atlantic , the South Atlantic , the Indian Ocean and the South Pacific . These routes are not one way streets , for the ships which that carry our troops and munitions out bound bring back essential raw materials which we require for our own use . The maintenance of these vital lines is a very tough job . It is a job which requires tremendous daring , tremendous resourcefulness , and , above all , tremendous production of planes and tanks and guns and also of the ships to carry them . And I speak again for the American people when I say that we can and will do that job . The defense of the world wide lines of communication demands compel relatively safe use by us of the sea and of the air along the various routes and this , in turn , depends upon control by the United Nations of the many strategic bases along those routes . Control of the air involves the simultaneous use of two types of planes first , the long range heavy bomber and , second , the light bombers , the dive bombers , the torpedo planes , and the short range pursuit planes , all of which are essential to the cooperate with and protect ion of the bases and of the bombers themselves . Heavy bombers can fly under their own power from here to the southwest Pacific , either way , but the smaller planes cannot . Therefore , these lighter planes have to be packed in crates and sent on board cargo ships . Look at your map again and you will see that the route is long and at many places perilous either across the South Atlantic all the way a round South Africa and the Cape of Good Hope , or from California to the East Indies direct . A vessel can make a round trip by either route in about four months , or only three round trips in a whole year . In spite of the length , and in spite of the difficulties of this transportation , I can tell you that in two and a half months we already have a large number of bombers and pursuit planes , manned by American pilots and crews , which are now in daily contact with the enemy in the Southwest Pacific . And thousands of American troops are today in that area engaged in operations not only in the air but on the ground as well . In this battle area , Japan has had an obvious initial advantage . For she could fly even her short range planes to the points of attack by using many stepping stones open to her bases in a multitude of Pacific islands and also bases on the China coast , Indo China coast , and in Thailand and Malaya coasts . Japanese troop transports could go south from Japan and from China through the narrow China Sea , which can be protected by Japanese planes throughout its whole length . I ask you to look at your maps again , particularly at that portion of the Pacific Ocean lying west of Hawaii . Before this war even started , the Philippine Islands were already surrounded on three sides by Japanese power . On the west , the China side , the Japanese were in possession of the coast of China and the coast of Indo China which had been yielded to them by the Vichy French . On the North are the islands of Japan themselves , reaching down almost to northern Luzon . On the east , are the Mandated Islands which Japan had occupied exclusively , and had fortified in absolute violation of her written word . The islands that lie between Hawaii and the Philippines these islands , hundreds of them , appear only as small dots on most maps , but do not appear at all . But they cover a large strategic area . Guam lies in the middle of them a lone outpost which we have never fortified . Under the Washington Treaty of 1921 we had solemnly agreed not to add to the fortification of the Philippines Islands . We had no safe naval bases there , so we could not use the islands for extensive naval operations . Immediately after this war started , the Japanese forces moved down on either side of the Philippines to numerous points south of them thereby completely encircling the Islands Philippines from north , and south , and east and west . It is that complete encirclement , with control of the air by Japanese land based aircraft , which has prevented us from sending substantial reinforcements of men and material to the gallant defenders of the Philippines . For forty years it has always been our strategy a strategy born of necessity that in the event of a full scale attack on the Islands by Japan , we should fight a delaying action , attempting to retire slowly into Bataan Peninsula and Corregidor . We knew that the war as a whole would have to be fought and won by a process of attrition against Japan itself . We knew all along that , with our greater resources , we could ultimately out build Japan and ultimately overwhelm her on sea , and on land and in the air . We knew that , to obtain our objective , many varieties of operations would be necessary in areas other than the Philippines . Now nothing that has occurred in the past two months has caused us to revise this basic strategy of necessity except that the defense put up by General MacArthur has magnificently exceeded the previous estimates of endurance , and he and his men are gaining eternal glory therefore . MacArthur s army of Filipinos and Americans , and the forces of the United Nations in China , in Burma and the Netherlands East Indies , are all together fulfilling the same essential task . They are making Japan pay an increasingly terrible price for her ambitious attempts to seize control of the whole Atlantic Asiatic world . Every Japanese transport sunk off Java is one less transport that they can use to carry reinforcements to their army opposing General MacArthur in Luzon . It has been said that Japanese gains in the Philippines were made possible only by the success of their surprise attack on Pearl Harbor . I tell you that this is not so . Even if the attack had not been made your map will show that it would have been a hopeless operation for us to send the Fleet to the Philippines through thousands of miles of ocean , while all those island bases were under the sole control of the Japanese . The consequences of the attack on Pearl Harbor serious as they were have been wildly exaggerated in other ways . And these exaggerations come originally from Axis propagandists but they have been repeated , I regret to say , by Americans in and out of public life . You and I have the utmost contempt for Americans who , since Pearl Harbor , have whispered or announced off the record that there was no longer any Pacific Fleet that the Fleet was all sunk or destroyed on December 7th that more than a thousand of our planes were destroyed on the ground . They have suggested slyly that the government has withheld the truth about casualties that 11 , 000 or 12 , 000 men were killed at Pearl Harbor instead of the figures as officially announced . They have even served the enemy propagandists by spreading the incredible story that shiploads of bodies of our honored American dead were about to arrive in New York harbor to be put into a common grave . Almost every Axis broadcast Berlin , Rome , Tokyo directly quotes Americans who , by speech or in the press , make damnable misstatements such as these . The American people realize that in many cases details of military operations cannot be disclosed until we are absolutely certain that the announcement will not give to the enemy military information which he does not already possess . Your government has unmistakable confidence in your ability to hear the worst , without flinching or losing heart . You must , in turn , have complete confidence that your government is keeping nothing from you except information that will help the enemy in his attempt to destroy us . In a democracy there is always a solemn pact of truth between government and the people , but there must also always be a full use of discretion , and that word discretion applies to the critics of government as well . This is war . The American people want to know , and will be told , the general trend of how the war is going . But they do not wish to help the enemy any more than our fighting forces do , and they will pay little attention to the rumor mongers and the poison peddlers in our midst . To pass from the realm of rumor and poison to the field of facts the number of our officers and men killed in the attack on Pearl Harbor on December 7th was 2 , 340 , and the number wounded was 940 . Of all of the combatant ships based on Pearl Harbor battleships , heavy cruisers , light cruisers , aircraft carriers , destroyers and submarines only three were are permanently put out of commission . Very many of the ships of the Pacific Fleet were not even in Pearl Harbor . Some of those that were there were hit very slightly , and others that were damaged have either rejoined the Fleet by now or are still undergoing repairs . And when those repairs are completed , the ships will be more efficient fighting machines than they were before . The report that we lost more than a thousand air planes at Pearl Harbor is as baseless as the other weird rumors . The Japanese do not know just how many planes they destroyed that day , and I am not going to tell them . But I can say that to date and including Pearl Harbor we have destroyed considerably more Japanese planes than they have destroyed of ours . We have most certainly suffered losses from Hitler s U Boats in the Atlantic as well as from the Japanese in the Pacific and we shall suffer more of them before the turn of the tide . But , speaking for the United States of America , let me say once and for all to the people of the world We Americans have been compelled to yield ground , but we will regain it . We and the other United Nations are committed to the destruction of the militarism of Japan and Germany . We are daily increasing our strength . Soon , we and not our enemies , will have the offensive we , not they , will win the final battles and we , not they , will make the final peace . Conquered nations in Europe know what the yoke of the Nazis is like . And the people of Korea and of Manchuria know in their flesh the harsh despotism of Japan . All of the people of Asia know that if there is to be an honorable and decent future for any of them or any of for us , that future depends on victory by the United Nations over the forces of Axis enslavement . If a just and durable peace is to be attained , or even if all of us are merely to save our own skins , there is one thought for us here at home to keep uppermost the fulfillment of our special task of production uninterrupted production . I stress that word uninterrupted . Germany , Italy and Japan are very close to their maximum output of planes , guns , tanks and ships . The United Nations are not especially the United States of America . Our first job then is to build up production uninterrupted production so that the United Nations can maintain control of the seas and attain control of the air not merely a slight superiority , but an overwhelming superiority . On January 6th of this year , I set certain definite goals of production for airplanes , tanks , guns and ships . The Axis propagandists called them fantastic . Tonight , nearly two months later , and after a careful survey of progress by Donald Nelson and others charged with responsibility for our production , I can tell you that those goals will be attained . In every part of the country , experts in production and the men and women at work in the plants are giving loyal service . With few exceptions , labor , capital and farming realize that this is no time either to make undue profits or to gain special advantages , one over the other . We are calling for new plants and additions additions to old plants . We are calling for plant conversion to war needs . We are seeking more men and more women to run them . We are working longer hours . We are coming to realize that one extra plane or extra tank or extra gun or extra ship completed tomorrow may , in a few months , turn the tide on some distant battlefield it may make the difference between life and death for some of our own fighting men . We know now that if we lose this war it will be generations or even centuries before our conception of democracy can live again . And we can lose this war only if use slow up our effort or if we waste our ammunition sniping at each other . Here are three high purposes for every American 1 . We shall not stop work for a single day . If any dispute arises we shall keep on working while the dispute is solved by mediation , or conciliation or arbitration until the war is won . 2 . We shall not demand special gains or special privileges or special advantages for any one group or occupation . 3 . We shall give up conveniences and modify the routine of our lives if our country asks us to do so . We will do it cheerfully , remembering that the common enemy seeks to destroy every home and every freedom in every part of our land . This generation of Americans has come to realize , with a present and personal realization , that there is something larger and more important than the life of any individual or of any individual group something for which a man will sacrifice , and gladly sacrifice , not only his pleasures , not only his goods , not only his associations with those he loves , but his life itself . In time of crisis when the future is in the balance , we come to understand , with full recognition and devotion , what this nation is and what we owe to it . The Axis propagandists have tried in various evil ways to destroy our determination and our morale . Failing in that , they are now trying to destroy our confidence in our own allies . They say that the British are finished that the Russians and the Chinese are about to quit . Patriotic and sensible Americans will reject these absurdities . And instead of listening to any of this crude propaganda , they will recall some of the things that Nazis and Japanese have said and are still saying about us . Ever since this nation became the arsenal of democracy ever since enactment of Lend Lease there has been one persistent theme through all Axis propaganda . This theme has been that Americans are admittedly rich , and that Americans have considerable industrial power but that Americans are soft and decadent , that they cannot and will not unite and work and fight . From Berlin , Rome and Tokyo we have been described as a nation of weaklings playboys who would hire British soldiers , or Russian soldiers , or Chinese soldiers to do our fighting for us . Let them repeat that now Let them tell that to General MacArthur and his men . Let them tell that to the sailors who today are hitting hard in the far waters of the Pacific . Let them tell that to the boys in the Flying Fortresses . Let them tell that to the Marines The United Nations constitutes an association of independent peoples of equal dignity and equal importance . The United Nations are dedicated to a common cause . We share equally and with equal zeal the anguish and the awful sacrifices of war . In the partnership of our common enterprise , we must share in a unified plan in which all of us must play our several parts , each of us being equally indispensable and dependent one on the other . We have unified command and cooperation and comradeship . We Americans will contribute unified production and unified acceptance of sacrifice and of effort . That means a national unity that can know no limitations of race or creed or selfish politics . The American people expect that much from themselves . And the American people will find ways and means of expressing their determination to their enemies , including the Japanese Admiral who has said that he will dictate the terms of peace here in the White Mouse . We of the United Nations are agreed on certain broad principles in the kind of peace we seek . The Atlantic Charter applies not only to the parts of the world that border the Atlantic but to the whole world disarmament of aggressors , self determination of nations and peoples , and the four freedoms freedom of speech , freedom of religion , freedom from want , and freedom from fear . The British and the Russian people have known the full fury of Nazi onslaught . There have been times when the fate of London and Moscow was in serious doubt . But there was never the slightest question that either the British or the Russians would yield . And today all the United Nations salutes the superb Russian Army as it celebrates the 24th anniversary of its first assembly . Though their homeland was overrun , the Dutch people are still fighting stubbornly and powerfully overseas . The great Chinese people have suffered grievous losses Chungking has been almost wiped out of existence yet it remains the capital of an unbeatable China . That is the conquering spirit which prevails throughout the United Nations in this war . The task that we Americans now face will test us to the uttermost . Never before have we been called upon for such a prodigious effort . Never before have we had so little time in which to do so much . These are the times that try men s souls . Tom Paine wrote those words on a drumhead , by the light of a campfire . That was when Washington s little army of ragged , rugged men was retreating across New Jersey , having tasted nothing naught but defeat . And General Washington ordered that these great words written by Tom Paine be read to the men of every regiment in the Continental Army , and this was the assurance given to the first American armed forces The summer soldier and the sunshine patriot will , in this crisis , shrink from the service of their country but he that stands it now , deserves the love and thanks of man and woman . Tyranny , like hell , is not easily conquered , yet we have this consolation with us , that the harder the sacrifice , the more glorious the triumph . So spoke Americans in the year 1776 . So speak Americans today<speech_sep>