Good evening I have asked for this time tonight in order to announce my answer to the House Judiciary Committee s subpoena for additional Watergate tapes , and to tell you something about the actions I shall be taking tomorrow about what I hope they will mean to you and about the very difficult choices that were presented to me . These actions will at last , once and for all , show that what I knew and what I did with regard to the Watergate break in and coverup were just as I have described them to you from the very beginning . I have spent many hours during the past few weeks thinking about what I would say to the American people if I were to reach the decision I shall announce tonight . And so , my words have not been lightly chosen I can assure you they are deeply felt . It was almost e years ago , in June 1972 that five men broke into the Democratic National Committee headquarters in Washington . It turned out that they were connected with my reelection committee , and the Watergate break in became a major issue in the campaign . The full resources of the FBI and the Justice Department were used to investigate the incident thoroughly . I instructed my staff and campaign aides to cooperate fully with the investigation . The FBI conducted nearly 1 , 500 interviews . For 9 months until March 1973 I was assured by those charged with conducting and monitoring the investigations that no one in the White House was involved . Nevertheless , for more than a year , there have been allegations and insinuations that I knew about the planning of the Watergate break in and that I was involved in an extensive plot to cover it up . The House Judiciary Committee is now investigating these charges . On March 6 , I ordered all materials that I had previously furnished to the Special Prosecutor turned over to the committee . These included tape recordings of 19 Presidential conversations and more than 700 documents from private White House files . On April 11 , the Judiciary Committee issued a subpoena for 42 additional tapes of conversations which it contended were necessary for its investigation . I agreed to respond to that subpoena by tomorrow . In these folders that you see over here on my left are more than 1 , 200 pages of transcripts of private conversations I participated in between September 15 , 1972 , and April 27 of 1973 with my principal aides and associates with regard to Watergate . They include all the relevant portions of all of the subpoenaed conversations that were recorded , that is , all portions that relate to the question of what I knew about Watergate or the coverup and what I did about it . They also include transcripts of other conversations which were not subpoenaed , but which have a significant bearing on the question of Presidential actions with regard to Watergate . These will be delivered to the committee tomorrow . In these transcripts , portions not relevant to my knowledge or actions with regard to Watergate are not included , but everything that is relevant is included the rough as well as the smooth the strategy sessions , the exploration of alternatives , the weighing of human and political costs . As far as what the President personally knew and did with regard to Watergate and the coverup is concerned , these materials together with those already made available will tell it all . I shall invite Chairman Rodino and the committee s ranking minority member , Congressman Hutchinson of Michigan , to come to the White House and listen to the actual , full tapes of these conversations , so that they can determine for themselves beyond question that the transcripts are accurate and that everything on the tapes relevant to my knowledge and my actions on Watergate is included . If there should be any disagreement over whether omitted material is relevant , I shall meet with them personally in an effort to settle the matter . I believe this arrangement is fair , and I think it is appropriate . For many days now , I have spent many hours of my own time personally reviewing these materials and personally deciding questions of relevancy . I believe it is appropriate that the committee s review should also be made by its own senior elected officials , and not by staff employees . The task of Chairman Rodino and Congressman Hutchinson will be made simpler than was mine by the fact that the work of preparing the transcripts has been completed . All they will need to do is to satisfy themselves of their authenticity and their completeness . Ever since the existence of the White House taping system was first made known last summer , I have tried vigorously to guard the privacy of the tapes . I have been well aware that my effort to protect the confidentiality of Presidential conversations has heightened the sense of mystery about Watergate and , in fact , has caused increased suspicions of the President . Many people assume that the tapes must incriminate the President , or that otherwise , he would not insist on their privacy . But the problem I confronted was this Unless a President can protect the privacy of the advice he gets , he cannot get the advice he needs . This principle is recognized in the constitutional doctrine of executive privilege , which has been defended and maintained by every President since Washington and which has been recognized by the courts , whenever tested , as inherent in the Presidency . I consider it to be my constitutional responsibility to defend this principle . Three factors have now combined to persuade me that a major unprecedented exception to that principle is now necessary First , in the present circumstances , the House of Representatives must be able to reach an informed judgment about the President s role in Watergate . Second , I am making a major exception to the principle of confidentiality because I believe such action is now necessary in order to restore the principle itself , by clearing the air of the central question that has brought such pressures upon it and also to provide the evidence which will allow this matter to be brought to a prompt conclusion . Third , in the context of the current impeachment climate , I believe all the American people , as well as their representatives in Congress , are entitled to have not only the facts but also the evidence that demonstrates those facts . I want there to be no question remaining about the fact that the President has nothing to hide in this matter . The impeachment of a President is a remedy of last resort it is the most solemn act of our entire constitutional process . Now , regardless of whether or not it succeeded , the action of the House , in voting a formal accusation requiring trial by the Senate , would put the Nation through a wrenching ordeal it has endured only once in its lifetime , a century ago , and never since America has become a world power with global responsibilities . The impact of such an ordeal would be felt throughout the world , and it would have its effect on the lives of all Americans for many years to come . Because this is an issue that profoundly affects all the American people , in addition to turning over these transcripts to the House Judiciary Committee , I have directed that they should all be made public all of these that you see here . To complete the record , I shall also release to the public transcripts of all those portions of the tapes already turned over to the Special Prosecutor and to the committee that relate to Presidential actions or knowledge of the Watergate affair . During the past year , the wildest accusations have been given banner headlines and ready credence as well . Rumor , gossip innuendo , accounts from unnamed sources of what a prospective witness might testify to , have filled the morning newspapers and then are repeated on the evening newscasts day after day . Time and again , a familiar pattern repeated itself . A charge would be reported the first day as what it was just an allegation . But it would then be referred back to the next day and thereafter as if it were true . The distinction between fact and speculation grew blurred . Eventually , all seeped into the public consciousness as a vague general impression of massive wrongdoing , implicating everybody , gaining credibility by its endless repetition . The basic question at issue today is whether the President personally acted improperly in the Watergate matter . Month after month of rumor , insinuation , and charges by just one Watergate witness John Dean suggested that the President did act improperly . This sparked the demands for an impeachment inquiry . This is the question that must be answered . And this is the question that will be answered by these transcripts that I have ordered published tomorrow . These transcripts cover hour upon hour of discussions that I held with Haldeman , John Ehrlichman , John Dean , John Mitchell , former Attorney General Kleindienst , Assistant Attorney General Petersen , and others with regard to Watergate . They were discussions in which I was probing to find out what had happened , who was responsible , what were the various degrees of responsibilities , what were the legal capabilities , what were the political ramifications , and what actions were necessary and appropriate on the part of the President . I realize that these transcripts will provide grist for many sensational stories in the press . Parts will seem to be contradictory with one another , and parts will be in conflict with some of the testimony given in the Senate Watergate committee hearings . I have been reluctant to release these tapes , not just because they will embarrass me and those with whom I have talked which they will and not just because they will become the subject of speculation and even ridicule which they will and not just because certain parts of them will be seized upon by political and journalistic opponents which they will . I have been reluctant because , in these and in all the other conversations in this office , people have spoken their minds freely , never dreaming that specific sentences or even parts of sentences would be picked out as the subjects of national attention and controversy . I have been reluctant because the principle of confidentiality is absolutely essential to the conduct of the Presidency . In reading the raw transcripts of these conversations , I believe it will be more readily apparent why that principle is essential and must be maintained in the future . These conversations are unusual in their subject matter , but the same kind of uninhibited discussion and it is that the same brutal candor is necessary in discussing how to bring warring factions to the peace table or how to move necessary legislation through the Congress . Names are named in these transcripts . Therefore , it is important to remember that much that appears in them is no more than hearsay or speculation , exchanged as I was trying to find out what really had happened , while my principal aides were reporting to me on rumors and reports that they had heard , while we discussed the various , often conflicting stories that different persons were telling . As the transcripts will demonstrate , my concerns during this period covered a wide range . The first and obvious one was to find out just exactly what had happened and who was involved . A second concern was for the people who had been , or might become , involved in Watergate . Some were close advisers , valued friends , others whom I had trusted . And I was also concerned about the human impact on others , especially some of the young people and their families who had come to Washington to work in my Administration , whose lives might be suddenly ruined by something they had done in an excess of loyalty or in the mistaken belief that it would serve the interests of the President . And then , I was quite frankly concerned about the political implications . This represented potentially a devastating blow to the Administration and to its programs , one which I knew would be exploited for all it was worth by hostile elements in the Congress as well as in the media . I wanted to do what was right , but I wanted to do it in a way that would cause the least unnecessary damage in a highly charged political atmosphere to the Administration . And fourth , as a lawyer , I felt very strongly that I had to conduct myself in a way that would not prejudice the rights of potential defendants . And fifth , I was striving to sort out a complex tangle , not only of facts but also questions of legal and moral responsibility . I wanted , above all , to be fair . I wanted to draw distinctions , where those were appropriate , between persons who were active and willing participants on the one hand , and on the other , those who might have gotten inadvertently caught up in the web and be technically indictable but morally innocent . Despite the confusions and contradictions , what does come through clearly is this John Dean charged in sworn Senate testimony that I was fully aware of the coverup at the time of our first meeting on September 15 , 1972 . These transcripts show clearly that I first learned of it when Dean himself told me about it in this office on March 21 some 6 months later . Incidentally , these transcripts covering hours upon hours of conversations should place in somewhat better perspective the controversy over the 18 1 2 minute gap in the tape of a conversation I had with Haldeman back in June of 1972 . Now , how it was caused is still a mystery to me and , I think , to many of the experts as well . But I am absolutely certain , however , of one thing that it was not caused intentionally by my secretary , Rose Mary Woods , or any of my White House assistants . And certainly , if the theory were true that during those 18 1 2 minutes , Haldeman and I cooked up some sort of a Watergate coverup scheme , as so many have been quick to surmise , it hardly seems likely that in all of our subsequent conversations many of them are here which neither of us ever expected would see the light of day , there is nothing remotely indicating such a scheme indeed , quite the contrary . From the beginning , I have said that in many places on the tapes there were ambiguities a statement and comments that different people with different perspectives might interpret in drastically different ways but although the words may be ambiguous , though the discussions may have explored many alternatives , the record of my actions is totally clear now , and I still believe it was totally correct then . A prime example is one of the most controversial discussions , that with Dean on March 21 the one in which he first told me of the coverup , with Haldeman joining us midway through the conversation . His revelations to me on March 21 were a sharp surprise , even though the report he gave to me was far from complete , especially since he did not reveal at that time the extent of his own criminal involvement . I was particularly concerned by his report that one of the Watergate defendants , Howard Hunt , was threatening blackmail unless he and his lawyer were immediately given 121 , 000 for legal fees and family support , and that he was attempting to blackmail the White House , not by threatening exposure on the Watergate matter , but by threatening to reveal activities that would expose extremely sensitive , highly secret national security matters that he had worked on before Watergate . I probed , questioned , tried to learn all Dean knew about who was involved , what was involved . I asked more than 150 questions of Dean in the course of that conversation . He said to me , and I quote from the transcripts directly I can just tell from our conversation that these are things that you have no knowledge of . It was only considerably later that I learned how much there was that he did not tell me then for example , that he himself had authorized promises of clemency , that he had personally handled money for the Watergate defendants , and that he had suborned perjury of a witness . I knew that I needed more facts . I knew that I needed the judgments of more people . I knew the facts about the Watergate coverup would have to be made public , but I had to find out more about what they were before I could decide how they could best be made public . I returned several times to the immediate problem posed by Hunt s blackmail threat , which to me was not a Watergate problem , but one which I regarded , rightly or wrongly , as a potential national security problem of very serious proportions . I considered long and hard whether it might in fact be better to let the payment go forward , at least temporarily , in the hope that this national security matter would not be exposed in the course of uncovering the Watergate coverup . I believed then , and I believe today , that I had a responsibility as President to consider every option , including this one , where production of sensitive national security matters was at issue protection of such matters . In the course of considering it and of just thinking out loud , as I put it at one point , I several times suggested that meeting Hunt s demands might be necessary . But then I also traced through where that would lead . The money could be raised . But money demands would lead inescapably to clemency demands , and clemency could not be granted . I said , and I quote directly from the tape It is wrong , that is for sure . I pointed out , and I quote again from the tape But in the end we are going to be bled to death . And in the end it is all going to come out anyway . Then you get the worst of both worlds . We are going to lose , and people are going to And Haldeman interrupts me and says And look like dopes And I responded , And in effect look like a coverup . So that we cannot do . Now , I recognize that this tape of March 21 is one which different meanings could be read in by different people . But by the end of the meeting , as the tape shows , my decision was to convene a new grand jury and to send everyone before the grand jury with instructions to testify . Whatever the potential for misinterpretation there may be as a result of the different options that were discussed at different times during the meeting , my conclusion at the end of the meeting was clear . And my actions and reactions as demonstrated on the tapes that follow that date show clearly that I did not in . tend the further payment to Hunt or anyone else be made . These are some of the actions that I took in the weeks that followed in my effort to find the truth , to carry out my responsibilities to enforce the law As a tape of our meeting on March 22 , the next day , indicates , I directed Dean to go to Camp David with instructions to put together a written report . I learned five days later , on March 26 , that he was unable to complete it . And so on March 27 , I assigned John Ehrlichman to try to find out what had happened , who was at fault , and in what ways and to what degree . One of the transcripts I am making public is a call that Ehrlichman made to the Attorney General on March 28 , in which he asked the Attorney General to report to me , the President , directly , any information he might find indicating possible involvement of John Mitchell or by anyone in the White House . I had Haldeman separately pursue other , independent lines of inquiry . Throughout , I was trying to reach determinations on matters of both substance and procedure on what the facts were and what was the best way to move the case forward . I concluded that I wanted everyone to go before the grand jury and testify freely and fully . This decision , as you will recall , was publicly announced on March 30 , 1973 . I waived executive privilege in order to permit everybody to testify . I specifically waived executive privilege with regard to conversations with the President , and I waived the attorney client privilege with John Dean in order to permit him to testify fully and , I hope , truthfully . Finally , on April 14 three weeks after I learned of the coverup from Dean Ehrlichman reported to me on the results of his investigation . As he acknowledged , much of what he had gathered was hearsay , but he had gathered enough to make it clear that the next step was to make his findings completely available to the Attorney General , which I instructed him to do . And the next day , Sunday , April 15 , Attorney General Kleindienst asked to see me , and he reported new information which had come to his attention on this matter . And although he was in no way whatever involved in Watergate , because of his close personal ties , not only to John Mitchell but to other potential people who might be involved , he quite properly removed himself from the case . We agreed that Assistant Attorney General Henry Petersen , the head of the Criminal Division , a Democrat and career prosecutor , should be placed in complete charge of the investigation . Later that day , I met with Petersen . I continued to meet with him , to talk with him , to consult with him , to offer him the full cooperation of the White House as you will see from these transcripts even to the point of retaining John Dean on the White House Staff for an extra e weeks after he admitted his criminal involvement , because Petersen thought that would make it easier for the prosecutor to get his cooperation in breaking the case if it should become necessary to grant Dean s demand for immunity . On April 15 , when I heard that one of the obstacles to breaking the case was Gordon Liddy s refusal to talk , I telephoned Petersen and directed that he should make clear not only to Liddy but to everyone that and now I quote directly from the tape of that telephone call As far as the President is concerned , everybody in this case is to talk and to tell the truth . I told him if necessary I would personally meet with Liddy s lawyer to assure him that I wanted Liddy to talk and to tell the truth . From the time Petersen took charge , the case was solidly within the criminal justice system , pursued personally by the Nation s top professional prosecutor with the active , personal assistance of the President of the United States . I made clear there was to be no coverup . Let me quote just a few lines from the transcripts you can read them to verify them so that you can hear for yourself the orders I was giving in this period . Speaking to Haldeman and Ehrlichman , I said . . . It is ridiculous to talk about clemency . They all knew that . Speaking to Ehrlichman , I said We all have to do the fight thing . . . We just cannot have this kind of a business . . . Speaking to Haldeman and Ehrlichman , I said The boil had to be pricked . . . We have to prick the boil and take the heat . Now that is what we are doing here . Speaking to Henry Petersen , I said I want you to be sure to understand that you know we are going to get to the bottom of this thing . Speaking to John Dean , I said Tell the truth . That is the thing I have told everybody around here . And then speaking to Haldeman And you tell Magruder , now Jeb , this evidence is coming in , you ought to go to the grand jury . Purge yourself if you are perjured and tell this whole story . I am confident that the American people will see these transcripts for what they are , fragmentary records from a time more than a year ago that now seems very distant , the records of a President and of a man suddenly being confronted and having to cope with information which , if true , would have the most far reaching consequences , not only for his personal reputation but , more important , for his hopes , his plans , his goals for the people who had elected him as their leader . If read with an open and a fair mind and read together with the record of the actions I took , these transcripts will show that what I have stated from the beginning to be the truth has been the truth that I personally had no knowledge of the break in before it occurred , that I had no knowledge of the coverup until I was informed of it by John Dean on March 21 , that I never offered clemency for the defendants , and that after March 21 , my actions were directed toward finding the facts and seeing that justice was done , fairly and according to the law . The facts are there . The conversations are there . The record of actions is there . To anyone who reads his way through this mass of materials I have provided , it will be totally , abundantly clear that as far as the President s role with regard to Watergate is concerned , the entire story is there . As you will see , now that you also will have this mass of evidence I have provided , I have tried to cooperate with the House Judiciary Committee . And I repeat tonight the offer that I have made previously to answer written interrogatories under oath and , if there are then issues still unresolved , to meet personally with the chairman of the committee and with Congressman Hutchinson to answer their questions under oath . As the committee conducts its inquiry , I also consider it only essential and fair that my counsel , Clair , should be present to cross examine witnesses and introduce evidence in an effort to establish the truth . I am confident that for the overwhelming majority of those who study the evidence that I shall release tomorrow those who are willing to look at it fully , fairly , and objectively the evidence will be persuasive and , I hope , conclusive . We live in a time of very great challenge and great opportunity for America . We live at a time when peace may become possible in the Middle East for the first time in a generation . We are at last in the process of fulfilling the hope of mankind for a limitation on nuclear arms a process that will continue when I meet with the Soviet leaders in Moscow in a few weeks . We are well on the way toward building a peace that can last , not just for this but for other generations as well . And here at home , there is vital work to be done in moving to control inflation , to develop our energy resources , to strengthen our economy so that Americans can enjoy what they have not had since 1956 full prosperity without war and without inflation . Every day absorbed by Watergate is a day lost from the work that must be done by your President and by your Congress work that must be done in dealing with the great problems that affect your prosperity , affect your security , that could affect your lives . The materials I make public tomorrow will provide all the additional evidence needed to get Watergate behind us and to get it behind us now . Never before in the history of the Presidency have records that are so private been made so public . In giving you these records blemishes and all I am placing my trust in the basic fairness of the American people . I know in my own heart that through the long , painful , and difficult process revealed in these transcripts , I was trying in that period to discover what was right and to do what was right . I hope and I trust that when you have seen the evidence in its entirety , you will see the truth of that statement . As for myself , I intend to go forward , to the best of my ability , with the work that you elected me to do . I shall do so in a spirit perhaps best summed up a century ago by another President when he was being subjected to unmerciful attack . Abraham Lincoln said I do the very best I know how the very best I can and I mean to keep doing so until the end . If the end brings me out all right , what is said against me will not amount to anything . If the end brings me out wrong , ten angels swearing I was right would make no difference . Thank you and good evening .<speech_sep>Vice President , Speaker , Chief Justice , Senator Cook , Eisenhower , and my fellow citizens of this great and good country we share together When we met here four years ago , America was bleak in spirit , depressed by the prospect of seemingly endless war abroad and of destructive conflict at home . As we meet here today , we stand on the threshold of a new era of peace in the world . The central question before us is How shall we use that peace Let us resolve that this era we are about to enter will not be what other postwar periods have so often been a time of retreat and isolation that leads to stagnation at home and invites new danger abroad . Let us resolve that this will be what it can become a time of great responsibilities greatly borne , in which we renew the spirit and the promise of America as we enter our third century as a nation . This past year saw far reaching results from our new policies for peace . By continuing to revitalize our traditional friendships , and by our missions to Peking and to Moscow , we were able to establish the base for a new and more durable pattern of relationships among the nations of the world . Because of America s bold initiatives , 1972 will be long remembered as the year of the greatest progress since the end of World War II toward a lasting peace in the world . The peace we seek in the world is not the flimsy peace which is merely an interlude between wars , but a peace which can endure for generations to come . It is important that we understand both the necessity and the limitations of America s role in maintaining that peace . Unless we in America work to preserve the peace , there will be no peace . Unless we in America work to preserve freedom , there will be no freedom . But let us clearly understand the new nature of America s role , as a result of the new policies we have adopted over these past four years . We shall respect our treaty commitments . We shall support vigorously the principle that no country has the right to impose its will or rule on another by force . We shall continue , in this era of negotiation , to work for the limitation of nuclear arms , and to reduce the danger of confrontation between the great powers . We shall do our share in defending peace and freedom in the world . But we shall expect others to do their share . The time has passed when America will make every other nation s conflict our own , or make every other nation s future our responsibility , or presume to tell the people of other nations how to manage their own affairs . Just as we respect the right of each nation to determine its own future , we also recognize the responsibility of each nation to secure its own future . Just as America s role is indispensable in preserving the world s peace , so is each nation s role indispensable in preserving its own peace . Together with the rest of the world , let us resolve to move forward from the beginnings we have made . Let us continue to bring down the walls of hostility which have divided the world for too long , and to build in their place bridges of understanding so that despite profound differences between systems of government , the people of the world can be friends . Let us build a structure of peace in the world in which the weak are as safe as the strong in which each respects the right of the other to live by a different system in which those who would influence others will do so by the strength of their ideas , and not by the force of their arms . Let us accept that high responsibility not as a burden , but gladly gladly because the chance to build such a peace is the noblest endeavor in which a nation can engage gladly , also , because only if we act greatly in meeting our responsibilities abroad will we remain a great Nation , and only if we remain a great Nation will we act greatly in meeting our challenges at home . We have the chance today to do more than ever before in our history to make life better in America to ensure better education , better health , better housing , better transportation , a cleaner environment to restore respect for law , to make our communities more livable and to insure the God given right of every American to full and equal opportunity . Because the range of our needs is so great because the reach of our opportunities is so great let us be bold in our determination to meet those needs in new ways . Just as building a structure of peace abroad has required turning away from old policies that failed , so building a new era of progress at home requires turning away from old policies that have failed . Abroad , the shift from old policies to new has not been a retreat from our responsibilities , but a better way to peace . And at home , the shift from old policies to new will not be a retreat from our responsibilities , but a better way to progress . Abroad and at home , the key to those new responsibilities lies in the placing and the division of responsibility . We have lived too long with the consequences of attempting to gather all power and responsibility in Washington . Abroad and at home , the time has come to turn away from the condescending policies of paternalism of Washington knows best . A person can be expected to act responsibly only if he has responsibility . This is human nature . So let us encourage individuals at home and nations abroad to do more for themselves , to decide more for themselves . Let us locate responsibility in more places . Let us measure what we will do for others by what they will do for themselves . That is why today I offer no promise of a purely governmental solution for every problem . We have lived too long with that false promise . In trusting too much in government , we have asked of it more than it can deliver . This leads only to inflated expectations , to reduced individual effort , and to a disappointment and frustration that erode confidence both in what government can do and in hat people can do . Government must learn to take less from people so that people an do more for themselves . Let us remember that America was built not by government , but by people not by welfare , but by work not by shirking responsibility , but by seeking responsibility . In our own lives , let each of us ask not just what will government do for me , but what can I do for myself In the challenges we face together , let each of us ask not just how can government help , but how can I help Your National Government has a great and vital role to play . And I pledge to you that where this Government should act , we will act boldly and we will lead boldly . But just as important is the role that each and every one of us must play , as an individual and as a member of his own community . From this day forward , let each of us make a solemn commitment in his own heart to bear his responsibility , to do his part , to live his ideals so that together , we can see the dawn of a new age of progress for America , and together , as we celebrate our 200th anniversary as a nation , we can do so proud in the fulfillment of our promise to ourselves and to the world . As America s longest and most difficult war comes to an end , let us again learn to debate our differences with civility and decency . And let each of us reach out for that one precious quality government cannot provide a new level of respect for the rights and feelings of one another , a new level of respect for the individual human dignity which is the cherished birthright of every American . Above all else , the time has come for us to renew our faith in ourselves and in America . In recent years , that faith has been challenged . Our children have been taught to be ashamed of their country , ashamed of their parents , ashamed of America s record at home and of its role in the world . At every turn , we have been beset by those who find everything wrong with America and little that is right . But I am confident that this will not be the judgment of history on these remarkable times in which we are privileged to live . America s record in this century has been unparalleled in the world s history for its responsibility , for its generosity , for its creativity and for its progress . Let us be proud that our system has produced and provided more freedom and more abundance , more widely shared , than any other system in the history of the world . Let us be proud that in each of the four wars in which we have been engaged in this century , including the one we are now bringing to an end , we have fought not for our selfish advantage , but to help others resist aggression . Let us be proud that by our bold , new initiatives , and by our steadfastness for peace with honor , we have made a break through toward creating in the world what the world has not known before a structure of peace that can last , not merely for our time , but for generations to come . We are embarking here today on an era that presents challenges great as those any nation , or any generation , has ever faced . We shall answer to God , to history , and to our conscience for the way in which we use these years . As I stand in this place , so hallowed by history , I think of others who have stood here before me . I think of the dreams they had for America , and I think of how each recognized that he needed help far beyond himself in order to make those dreams come true . Today , I ask your prayers that in the years ahead I may have God s help in making decisions that are right for America , and I pray for your help so that together we may be worthy of our challenge . Let us pledge together to make these next four years the best four years in America s history , so that on its 200th birthday America will be as young and as vital as when it began , and as bright a beacon of hope for all the world . Let us go forward from here confident in hope , strong in our faith in one another , sustained by our faith in God who created us , and striving always to serve His purpose .<speech_sep>Good evening Now that most of the major witnesses in the Watergate phase of the Senate committee hearings on campaign practices have been heard , the time has come for me to speak out about the charges made and to provide a perspective on the issue for the American people . For over four months , Watergate has dominated the news media . During the past three months , the three major networks have devoted an average of over 22 hours of television time each week to this subject . The Senate committee has heard over 2 million words of testimony . This investigation began as an effort to discover the facts about the break in and bugging of the Democratic National Headquarters and other campaign abuses . But as the weeks have gone by , it has become clear that both the hearings themselves and some of the commentaries on them have become increasingly absorbed in an effort to implicate the President personally in the illegal activities that took place . Because the abuses occurred during my Administration , and in the campaign for my reelection , I accept full responsibility for them . I regret that these events took place , and I do not question the right of a Senate committee to investigate charges made against the President to the extent that this is relevant to legislative duties . However , it is my constitutional responsibility to defend the integrity of this great office against false charges . I also believe that it is important to address the overriding question of what we as a nation can learn from this experience and what we should now do . I intend to discuss both of these subjects tonight . The record of the Senate hearings is lengthy . The facts are complicated , the evidence conflicting . It would not be right for me to try to sort out the evidence , to rebut specific witnesses , or to pronounce my own judgments about their credibility . That is for the committee and for the courts . I shall not attempt to deal tonight with the various charges in detail . Rather , I shall attempt to put the events in perspective from the standpoint of the Presidency . On May 22 , before the major witnesses had testified , I issued a detailed statement addressing the charges that had been made against the President . I have today issued another written statement , which addresses the charges that have been made since then as they relate to my own conduct , and which describes the efforts that I made to discover the facts about the matter . On May 22 , I stated in very specific terms and I state again to every one of you listening tonight these facts I had no prior knowledge of the Watergate break in I neither took part in nor knew about any of the subsequent coverup activities I neither authorized nor encouraged subordinates to engage in illegal or improper campaign tactics . That was and that is the simple truth . In all of the millions of words of testimony , there is not the slightest suggestion that I had any knowledge of the planning for the Watergate break in . As for the coverup , my statement has been challenged by only one of the 35 witnesses who appeared a witness who offered no evidence beyond his own impressions and whose testimony has been contradicted by every other witness in a position to know the facts . Tonight , let me explain to you what I did about Watergate after the break in occurred , so that you can better understand the fact that I also had no knowledge of the so called coverup . From the time when the break in occurred , I pressed repeatedly to know the facts , and particularly whether there was any involvement of anyone in the White House . I considered two things essential First , that the investigation should be thorough and aboveboard and second , that if there were any higher involvement , we should get the facts out first . As I said at my August 29 press conference last year , What really hurts in matters of this sort is not the fact that they occur , because over zealous people in campaigns do things that are wrong . What really hurts is if you try to cover it up . I believed that then , and certainly the experience of this last year has proved that to be true . I know that the Justice Department and the FBI were conducting intensive investigations as I had insisted that they should . The White House Counsel , John Dean , was assigned to monitor these investigations , and particularly to check into any possible White House involvement . Throughout the summer of 1972 , I continued to press the question , and I continued to get the same answer I was told again and again that there was no indication that any persons were involved other than the seven who were known to have planned and carried out the operation , and who were subsequently indicted and convicted . On September 12 at a meeting that I held with the Cabinet , the senior White House Staff and a number of legislative leaders , Attorney General Kleindienst reported on the investigation . He told us it had been the most extensive investigation since the assassination of President Kennedy and that it had established that only those seven were involved . On September 15 , the day the seven were indicted , I met with John Dean , the White House Counsel . He gave me no reason whatever to believe that any others were guilty I assumed that the indictments of only the seven by the grand jury confirmed the reports he had been giving to that effect throughout the summer . On February 16 , I met with Acting Director Gray prior to submitting his name to the Senate for confirmation as permanent Director of the FBI stressed to him that he would be questioned closely about the FBI s conduct of the Watergate investigation . I asked him if he still had full confidence in it . He replied that he did , that he was proud of its thoroughness and that he could defend it with enthusiasm before the committee . Because I trusted the agencies conducting the investigations , because I believed the reports I was getting , I did not believe the newspaper accounts that suggested a coverup . I was convinced there was no coverup , because I was convinced that no one had anything to cover up . It was not until March 21 of this year that I received new information from the White House Counsel that led me to conclude that the reports I had been getting for over 9 months were not true . On that day , I launched an intensive effort of my own to get the facts and to get the facts out . Whatever the facts might be , I wanted the White House to be the first to make them public . At first , I entrusted the task of getting me the facts to Dean . When , after spending a week at Camp David , he failed to produce the written report I had asked for , I turned to John Ehrlichman and to the Attorney General while also making independent inquiries of my own . By mid April , I had received Ehrlichman s report and also one from the Attorney General based on new information uncovered by the Justice Department . These reports made it clear to me that the situation was far more serious than I had imagined . It at once became evident to me that the responsibility for the investigation in the case should be given to the Criminal Division of the Justice Department . I turned over all the information I had to the head of that department , Assistant Attorney General Henry Petersen , a career government employee with an impeccable nonpartisan record , and I instructed him to pursue the matter thoroughly . I ordered all members of the Administration to testify fully before the grand jury . And with my concurrence , on May 18 Attorney General Richardson appointed a Special Prosecutor to handle the matter , and the case is now before the grand jury . Far from trying to hide the facts , my effort throughout has been to discover the facts and to lay those facts before the appropriate law enforcement authorities so that justice could be done and the guilty dealt with . I relied on the best law enforcement agencies in the country to find and report the truth . I believed they had done so just as they believed they had done so . Many have urged that in order to help prove the truth of what I have said , I should turn over to the Special Prosecutor and the Senate committee recordings of conversations that I held in my office or on my telephone . However , a much more important principle is involved in this question than what the tapes might prove about Watergate . Each day , a President of the United States is required to make difficult decisions on grave issues . It is absolutely necessary , if the President is to be able to do his job as the country expects , that he be able to talk openly and candidly with his advisers about issues and individuals . This kind of frank discussion is only possible when those who take part in it know that what they say is in strictest confidence . The Presidency is not the only office that requires confidentiality . A Member of Congress must be able to talk in confidence with his assistants judges must be able to confer in confidence with their law clerks and with each other . For very good reasons , no branch of Government has ever compelled disclosure of confidential conversations between officers of other branches of Government and their advisers about Government business . would want to talk frankly about the Congressional horse trading that might get a vital bill passed . No one would want to speak bluntly about public figures here and abroad . That is why I shall continue to oppose efforts which would set a precedent that would cripple all future Presidents by inhibiting conversations between them and those they look to for advice . This principle of confidentiality of Presidential conversations is at stake in the question of these tapes . I must and I shall oppose any efforts to destroy this principle , which is so vital to the conduct of this great office . Turning now to the basic issues which have been raised by Watergate , I recognize that merely answering the charges that have been made against the President is not enough . The word Watergate has come to represent a much broader set of concerns . To most of us , Watergate has come to mean not just a burglary and bugging of party headquarters but a whole series of acts that either represent or appear to represent an abuse of trust . It has come to stand for excessive partisanship , for enemy lists , for efforts to use the great institutions of Government for partisan political purposes . For many Americans , the term Watergate also has come to include a number of national security matters that have been brought into the investigation , such as those involved in my efforts to stop massive leaks of vital diplomatic and military secrets , and to counter the wave of bombings and burnings and other violent assaults of just a few years ago . Let me speak first of the political abuses . I know from long experience that a political campaign is always a hard and a tough contest . A candidate for high office has an obligation to his party , to his supporters , and to the cause he represents . He must always put forth his best efforts to win . But he also has an obligation to the country to conduct that contest within the law and within the limits of decency . No political campaign ever justifies obstructing justice , or harassing individuals , or compromising those great agencies of Government that should and must be above politics . To the extent that these things were done in the 1972 campaign , they were serious abuses , and I deplore them . Practices of that kind do not represent what I believe government should be , or what I believe politics should be . In a free society , the institutions of government belong to the people . They must never be used against the people . And in the future , my Administration will be more vigilant in ensuring that such abuses do not take place and that officials at every level understand that they are not to take place . And I reject the cynical view that politics is inevitably or even usually a dirty business . Let us not allow what a few overzealous people did in Watergate to tar the reputation of the millions of dedicated Americans of both parties who fought hard but clean for the candidates of their choice in 1972 . By their unselfish efforts , these people make our system work and they keep America free . I pledge to you tonight that I will do all that I can to ensure that one of the results of Watergate is a new level of political decency and integrity in America in which what has been wrong in our politics no longer corrupts or demeans what is right in our politics . Let me turn now to the difficult questions that arise in protecting the national security . It is important to recognize that these are difficult questions and that reasonable and patriotic men and women may differ on how they should be answered . Only last year , the Supreme Court said that implicit in the President s constitutional duty is the power to protect our Government against those who would subvert or overthrow it by unlawful means . How to carry out this duty is often a delicate question to which there is no easy answer . For example , every President since World War II has believed that in internal security matters , the President has the power to authorize wiretaps without first obtaining a search warrant . An act of Congress in 1968 had seemed to recognize such power . Last year the Supreme Court held to the contrary . And my Administration is , of course , now complying with that Supreme Court decision . But until the Supreme Court spoke , I had been acting , as did my predecessors President Truman , President Eisenhower , President Kennedy , and President Johnson in a reasonable belief that in certain circumstances the Constitution permitted and sometimes even required such measures to protect the national security in the public interest . Although it is the President s duty to protect the security of the country , we , of course , must be extremely careful in the way we go about this for if we lose our liberties we will have little use for security . Instances have now come to light in which a zeal for security did go too far and did interfere impermissibly with individual liberty . It is essential that such mistakes not be repeated . But it is also essential that we do not overreact to particular mistakes by tying the President s hands in a way that would risk sacrificing our security , and with it all our liberties . I shall continue to meet my constitutional responsibility to protect the security of this Nation so that Americans may enjoy their freedom . But I shall and can do so by constitutional means , in ways that will not threaten that freedom . As we look at Watergate in a longer perspective , we can see that its abuses resulted from the assumption by those involved that their cause placed them beyond the reach of those rules that apply to other persons and that hold a free society together . That attitude can never be tolerated in our country . However , it did not suddenly develop in the year 1972 . It became fashionable in the 1960 s as individuals and groups increasingly asserted the right to take the law into their own hands , insisting that their purposes represented a higher morality . Then their attitude was praised in the press and even from some of our pulpits as evidence of a new idealism . Those of us who insisted on the old restraints , who warned of the overriding importance of operating within the law and by the rules , were accused of being reactionaries . That same attitude brought a rising spiral of violence and fear , of riots and arson and bombings , all in the name of peace and in the name of justice . Political discussion turned into savage debate . Free speech was brutally suppressed as hecklers shouted down or even physically assaulted those with whom they disagreed . Serious people raised serious questions about whether we could survive as a free democracy . The notion that the end justifies the means proved contagious . Thus , it is not surprising , even though it is deplorable , that some persons in 1972 adopted the morality that they themselves had rightly condemned and committed acts that have no place in our political system . Those acts cannot be defended . Those who were guilty of abuses must be punished . But ultimately , the answer does not lie merely in the jailing of a few overzealous persons who mistakenly thought their cause justified their violations of the law . Rather , it lies in a commitment by all of us to show a renewed respect for the mutual restraints that are the mark of a free and a civilized society . It requires that we learn once again to work together , if not united in all of our purposes , then at least united in respect for the system by which our conflicts are peacefully resolved and our liberties maintained . If there are laws we disagree with , let us work to change them , but let us obey them until they are changed . If we have disagreements over Government policies , let us work those out in a decent and civilized way , within the law , and with respect for our differences . We must recognize that one excess begets another , and that the extremes of violence and discord in the 1960 s contributed to the extremes of Watergate . Both are wrong . Both should be condemned . No individual , no group , and no political party has a corner on the market on morality in America . If we learn the important lessons of Watergate , if we do what is necessary to prevent such abuses in the future on both sides we can emerge from this experience a better and a stronger nation . Let me turn now to an issue that is important above all else and that is critically affecting your life today and will affect your life and your children s life in the years to come . After 12 weeks and two million words of televised testimony , we have reached a point at which a continued , backward looking obsession with Watergate is causing this Nation to neglect matters of far greater importance to all of the American people . We must not stay so mired in Watergate that we fail to respond to challenges of surpassing importance to America and the world . We cannot let an obsession with the past destroy our hopes for the future . Legislation vital to your health and well being sits unattended on the Congressional calendar . Confidence at home and abroad in our economy , our currency , our foreign policy is being sapped by uncertainty . Critical negotiations are taking place on strategic weapons and on troop levels in Europe that can affect the security of this Nation and the peace of the world long after Watergate is forgotten . Vital events are taking place in Southeast Asia which could lead to a tragedy for the cause of peace . These are matters that cannot wait . They cry out for action now , and either we , your elected representatives here in Washington , ought to get on with the jobs that need to be done for you or every one of you ought to be demanding to know why . The time has come to turn Watergate over to the courts , where the questions of guilt or innocence belong . The time has come for the rest of us to get on with the urgent business of our Nation . Last November , the American people were given the clearest choice of this century . Your votes were a mandate , which I accepted , to complete the initiatives we began in my first term and to fulfill the promises I made for my second term . This Administration was elected to control inflation to reduce the power and size of Government to cut the cost of Government so that you can cut the cost of living to preserve and defend those fundamental values that have made America great to keep the Nation s military strength second to none to achieve peace with honor in Southeast Asia , and to bring home our prisoners of war to build a new prosperity , without inflation and without war to create a structure of peace in the world that would endure long after we are gone . These are great goals , they are worthy of a great people , and I would not be true to your trust if I let myself be turned aside from achieving those goals . If you share my belief in these goals if you want the mandate you gave this Administration to be carried out then I ask for your help to ensure that those who would exploit Watergate in order to keep us from doing what we were elected to do will not succeed . I ask tonight for your understanding , so that as a nation we can learn the lessons of Watergate and gain from that experience . I ask for your help in reaffirming our dedication to the principles of decency , honor , and respect for the institutions that have sustained our progress through these past two centuries . And I ask for your support in getting on once again with meeting your problems , improving your life , building your future . With your help , with God s help , we will achieve those great goals for America . Thank you and good evening .<speech_sep>Good evening I have asked for this television time tonight to make public a plan for peace that can end the war in Vietnam . The offer that I shall now present , on behalf of the Government of the United States and the Government of South Vietnam , with the full knowledge and approval of President Thieu , is both generous and far reaching . It is a plan to end the war now it includes an offer to withdraw all American forces within 6 months of an agreement its acceptance would mean the speedy return of all the prisoners of war to their homes . Three years ago when I took office , there were 550 , 000 Americans in Vietnam the number killed in action was running as high as 300 a week there were no plans to bring any Americans home , and the only thing that had been settled in Paris was the shape of the conference table . I immediately moved to fulfill a pledge I had made to the American people to bring about a peace that could last , not only for the United States , but for the long suffering people of Southeast Asia . There were two honorable paths open to us . The path of negotiation was , and is , the path we prefer . But it takes two to negotiate there had to be another way in case the other side refused to negotiate . That path we called Vietnamization . What it meant was training and equipping the South Vietnamese to defend themselves , and steadily withdrawing Americans , as they developed the capability to do so . The path of Vietnamization has been successful . Two weeks ago , you will recall , I announced that by May 1 , American forces in Vietnam would be down to 69 , 000 . That means almost one half million Americans will have been brought home from Vietnam over the past 3 years . In terms of American lives , the losses of 300 a week have been reduced by over 95 percent to less than 10 a week . But the path of Vietnamization has been the long voyage home . It has strained the patience and tested the perseverance of the American people . What of the shortcut , the shortcut we prefer , the path of negotiation Progress here has been disappointing . The American people deserve an accounting of why it has been disappointing . Tonight I intend to give you that accounting , and in so doing , I am going to try to break the deadlock in the negotiations . We have made a series of public proposals designed to bring an end to the conflict . But early in this Administration , after 10 months of no progress in the public Paris talks , I became convinced that it was necessary to explore the possibility of negotiating in private channels , to see whether it would be possible to end the public deadlock . After consultation with Secretary of State Rogers , our Ambassador in Saigon , and our chief negotiator in Paris , and with the full knowledge and approval of President Thieu , I sent Kissinger to Paris as my personal representative on August 4 , 1969 , 30 months ago , to begin these secret peace negotiations . Since that time , Kissinger has traveled to Paris 12 times on these secret missions . He has met seven times with Le Duc Tho , one of Hanoi s top political leaders , and Minister Xuan Thuy , head of the North Vietnamese delegation to the Paris talks , and he has met with Minister Xuan Thuy five times alone . I would like , incidentally , to take this opportunity to thank President Pompidou of France for his personal assistance in helping to make the arrangements for these secret talks . This is why I initiated these private negotiations Privately , both sides can be more flexible in offering new approaches and also private discussions allow both sides to talk frankly , to take positions free from the pressure of public debate . In seeking peace in Vietnam , with so many lives at stake , I felt we could not afford to let any opportunity go by private or public to negotiate a settlement . As I have stated on a number of occasions , I was prepared and I remain prepared to explore any avenue , public or private , to speed negotiations to end the war . For 30 months , whenever Secretary Rogers , Kissinger , or I were asked about secret negotiations we would only say we were pursuing every possible channel in our search for peace . There was never a leak , because we were determined not to jeopardize the secret negotiations . Until recently , this course showed signs of yielding some progress . Now , however , it is my judgment that the purposes of peace will best be served by bringing out publicly the proposals we have been making in private . Nothing is served by silence when the other side exploits our good faith to divide America and to avoid the conference table . Nothing is served by silence when it misleads some Americans into accusing their own government of failing to do what it has already done . Nothing is served by silence when it enables the other side to imply possible solutions publicly that it has already flatly rejected privately . The time has come to lay the record of our secret negotiations on the table . Just as secret negotiations can sometimes break a public deadlock , public disclosure may help to break a secret deadlock . Some Americans , who believed what the North Vietnamese led them to believe , have charged that the United States has not pursued negotiations intensively . As the record that I now will disclose will show , just the opposite is true . Questions have been raised as to why we have not proposed a deadline for the withdrawal of all American forces in exchange for a cease fire and the return of our prisoners of war why we have not discussed the seven point proposal made by the Vietcong last July in Paris why we have not submitted a new plan of our own to move the negotiations off dead center . As the private record will show , we have taken all these steps and more and have been flatly rejected or ignored by the other side . On May 31 , 1971 , 8 months ago , at one of the secret meetings in Paris , we offered specifically to agree to a deadline for the withdrawal of all American forces in exchange for the release of all prisoners of war and a cease fire . At the next private meeting , on June 26 , the North Vietnamese rejected our offer . They privately proposed instead their own nine point plan which insisted that we overthrow the Government of South Vietnam . Five days later , on July 1 , the enemy publicly presented a different package of proposals the seven point Vietcong plan . That posed a dilemma Which package should we respond to , the public plan or the secret plan On July 12 , at another private meeting in Paris , Kissinger put that question to the North Vietnamese directly . They said we should deal with their nine point secret plan , because it covered all of Indochina including Laos and Cambodia , while the Vietcong seven point proposal was limited to Vietnam . So that is what we did . But we went even beyond that , dealing with some of the points in the public plan that were not covered in the secret plan . On August 16 , at another private meeting , we went further . We offered the complete withdrawal of and allied forces within 9 months after an agreement on an overall settlement . On September 13 , the North Vietnamese rejected that proposal . They continued to insist that we overthrow the South Vietnamese Government . Now , what has been the result of these private efforts For months , the North Vietnamese have been berating us at the public sessions for not responding to their side s publicly presented seven point plan . The truth is that we did respond to the enemy s plan , in the manner they wanted us to respond secretly . In full possession of our complete response , the North Vietnamese publicly denounced us for not having responded at all . They induced many Americans in the press and the Congress into echoing their propaganda Americans who could not know they were being falsely used by the enemy to stir up divisiveness in this country . I decided in October that we should make another attempt to break the deadlock . I consulted with President Thieu , who concurred fully in a new plan . On October 11 , I sent a private communication to the North Vietnamese that contained new elements that could move negotiations forward . I urged a meeting on November 1 between Kissinger and Special Adviser Le Due Tho , or some other appropriate official from Hanoi . On October 25 , the North Vietnamese agreed to meet and suggested November 20 as the time for a meeting . On November 17 , just three days before the scheduled meeting , they said Le Duc Tho was ill . We offered to meet as soon as he recovered , either with him , or immediately with any other authorized leader who could come from Hanoi . Two months have passed since they called off that meeting . The only reply to our plan has been an increase in troop infiltration from North Vietnam and Communist military offensives in Laos and Cambodia . Our proposal for peace was answered by a step up in the war on their part . That is where matters stand today . We are being asked publicly to respond to proposals that we answered , and in some respects accepted , months ago in private . We are being asked publicly to set a terminal date for our withdrawals when we already offered one in private . And the most comprehensive peace plan of this conflict lies ignored in a secret channel , while the enemy tries again for military victory . That is why I have instructed Ambassador Porter to present our plan publicly at this Thursday s session of the Paris peace talks , along with alternatives to make it even more flexible . We are publishing the full details of our plan tonight . It will prove beyond doubt which side has made every effort to make these negotiations succeed . It will show unmistakably that Hanoi not Washington or Saigon has made the war go on . Here is the essence of our peace plan public disclosure may gain it the attention it deserves in Hanoi . Within six months of an agreement We shall withdraw all and allied forces from South Vietnam . We shall exchange all prisoners of war . There shall be a cease fire throughout Indochina . There shall be a new presidential election in South Vietnam . President Thieu will announce the elements of this election . These include international supervision and an independent body to organize and run the election , representing all political forces in South Vietnam , including the National Liberation Front . Furthermore , President Thieu has informed me that within the framework of the agreement outlined above , he makes the following offer He and Vice President Huong would be ready to resign one month before the new election . The Chairman of the Senate , as caretaker head of the Government , would assume administrative responsibilities in South Vietnam , but the election would be the sole responsibility of the independent election body I have just described . There are several other proposals in our new peace plan for example , as we offered privately on July 26 of last year , we remain prepared to undertake a major re . construction program throughout Indochina , including North Vietnam , to help all these peoples recover from the ravages of a generation of war . We will pursue any approach that will speed negotiations . We are ready to negotiate the plan I have outlined tonight and conclude a comprehensive agreement on all military and political issues . Because some parts of this agreement could prove more difficult to negotiate than others , we would be willing to begin implementing certain military aspects while negotiations continue on the implementation of other issues , just as we suggested in our private proposal in October . Or , as we proposed last May , we remain willing to settle only the military issues and leave the political issues to the Vietnamese alone . Under this approach , we would withdraw all and allied forces within 6 months in exchange for an Indochina cease fire and the release of all prisoners . The choice is up to the enemy . This is a settlement offer which is fair to North Vietnam and fair to South Vietnam . It deserves the light of public scrutiny by these nations and by other nations throughout the world . And it deserves the united support of the American people . We made the substance of this generous offer privately over 3 months ago . It has not been rejected , but it has been ignored . I reiterate that peace offer tonight . It can no longer be ignored . The only thing this plan does not do is to join our enemy to overthrow our ally , which the United States of America will never do . If the enemy wants peace , it will have to recognize the important difference between settlement and surrender . This has been a long and agonizing struggle . But it is difficult to see how anyone , regardless of his past position on the war , could now say that we have not gone the extra mile in offering a settlement that is fair , fair to everybody concerned . By the steadiness of our withdrawal of troops , America has proved its resolution to end our involvement in the war by our readiness to act in the spirit of conciliation , America has proved its desire to be involved in the building of a permanent peace throughout Indochina . We are ready to negotiate peace immediately . If the enemy rejects our offer to negotiate , we shall continue our program of ending American involvement in the war by withdrawing our remaining forces as the South Vietnamese develop the capability to defend themselves . If the enemy s answer to our peace offer is to step up their military attacks , I shall fully meet my responsibility as Commander in Chief of our Armed Forces to protect our remaining troops . We do not prefer this course of action . We want to end the war not only for America but for all the people of Indochina . The plan I have proposed tonight can accomplish that goal . Some of our citizens have become accustomed to thinking that whatever our Government says must be false , and whatever our enemies say must be true , as far as this war is concerned . Well , the record I have revealed tonight proves the contrary . We can now demonstrate publicly what we have long been demonstrating privately that America has taken the initiative not only to end our participation in this war , but to end the war itself for all concerned . This has been the longest , the most difficult war in American history . Honest and patriotic Americans have disagreed as to whether we should have become involved at all nine years ago and there has been disagreement on the conduct of the war . The proposal I have made tonight is one on which we all can agree . Let us unite now , unite in our search for peace a peace that is fair to both sides a peace that can last . Thank you and good night .<speech_sep>Good afternoon , ladies and gentlemen As you know , the Soviet American talks an limiting nuclear arms have been deadlocked for over a year . As a result of negotiations involving the highest level of both governments , I am announcing today a significant development in breaking the deadlock . The statement that I shall now read is being issued simultaneously in Moscow and Washington Washington , 12 of the clock Moscow , 7 p . m . The Governments of the United States and the Soviet Union , after reviewing the course of their talks on the limitation of strategic armaments , have agreed to concentrate this year on working out an agreement for the limitation of the deployment of anti ballistic missile systems . They have also agreed that , together with concluding an agreement to limit ABMs , they will agree on certain measures with respect to the limitation of offensive strategic weapons . The two sides are taking this course in the conviction that it will create more favorable conditions for further negotiations to limit all strategic arms . These negotiations will be actively pursued . This agreement is a major step in breaking the stalemate on nuclear arms talks . Intensive negotiations , however , will be required to translate this understanding into a concrete agreement . This statement that I have just read expresses the commitment of the Soviet and American Governments at the highest levels to achieve that goal . If we succeed , this joint statement that has been issued today may well be remembered as the beginning of a new era in which all nations will devote more of their energies and their resources not to the weapons of war , but to the works of peace .<speech_sep>Good evening Five weeks ago , on Easter weekend , the Communist armies of North Vietnam launched a massive invasion of South Vietnam , an invasion that was made possible by tanks , artillery , and other advanced offensive weapons supplied to Hanoi by the Soviet Union and other Communist nations . The South Vietnamese have fought bravely to repel this brutal assault . Casualties on both sides have been very high . Most tragically , there have been over 20 , 000 civilian casualties , including women and children , in the cities which the North Vietnamese have shelled in wanton disregard of human life . As I announced in my report to the Nation 12 days ago , the role of the United States in resisting this invasion has been limited to air and naval strikes on military targets in North and South Vietnam . As I also pointed out in that report , we have responded to North Vietnam s massive military offensive by undertaking wide ranging new peace efforts aimed at ending the war through negotiation . On April 20 , I sent Kissinger to Moscow for 4 days of meetings with General Secretary Brezhnev and other Soviet leaders . I instructed him to emphasize our desire for a rapid solution to the war and our willingness to look at all possible approaches . At that time , the Soviet leaders showed an interest in bringing the war to an end on a basis just to both sides . They urged resumption of negotiations in Paris , and they indicated they would use their constructive influence . I authorized Kissinger to meet privately with the top North Vietnamese negotiator , Le Duc Tho , on Tuesday , May 2 , in Paris . Ambassador Porter , as you know , resumed the public peace negotiations in Paris on April 27 and again on May 4 . At those meetings , both public and private , all we heard from the enemy was bombastic rhetoric and a replaying of their demands for surrender . For example , at the May 2 secret meeting , I authorized Kissinger to talk about every conceivable avenue toward peace . The North Vietnamese flatly refused to consider any of these approaches . They refused to offer any new approach of their own . Instead , they simply read verbatim their previous public demands . Here is what over 3 years of public and private negotiations with Hanoi has come down to The United States , with the full concurrence of our South Vietnamese allies , has offered the maximum of what any President of the United States could offer . We have offered a deescalation of the fighting . We have offered a cease fire with a deadline for withdrawal of all American forces . We have offered new elections which would be internationally supervised with the Communists participating both in the supervisory body and in the elections themselves . President Thieu has offered to resign one month before the elections . We have offered an exchange of prisoners of war in a ratio of 10 North Vietnamese prisoners for every one American prisoner that they release . And North Vietnam has met each of these offers with insolence and insult . They have flatly and arrogantly refused to negotiate an end to the war and bring peace . Their answer to every peace offer we have made has been to escalate the war . In the 2 weeks alone since I offered to resume negotiations , Hanoi has launched three new military offensives in South Vietnam . In those 2 weeks the risk that a Communist government may be imposed on the 17 million people of South Vietnam has increased , and the Communist offensive has now reached the point that it gravely threatens the lives of 60 , 000 American troops who are still in Vietnam . There are only two issues left for us in this war . First , in the face of a massive invasion do we stand by , jeopardize the lives of 60 , 000 Americans , and leave the South Vietnamese to a long night of terror This will not happen . We shall do whatever is required to safeguard American lives and American honor . Second , in the face of complete intransigence at the conference table do we join with our enemy to install a Communist government in South Vietnam This , too , will not happen . We will not cross the line from generosity to treachery . We now have a clear , hard choice among three courses of action Immediate withdrawal of all American forces , continued attempts at negotiation , or decisive military action to end the war . I know that many Americans favor the first course of action , immediate withdrawal . They believe the way to end the war is for the United States to get out , and to remove the threat to our remaining forces by simply withdrawing them . From a political standpoint , this would be a very easy choice for me to accept . After all , I did not send over one half million Americans to Vietnam . I have brought 500 , 000 men home from Vietnam since I took office . But , abandoning our commitment in Vietnam here and now would mean turning 17 million South Vietnamese over to Communist tyranny and terror . It would mean leaving hundreds of American prisoners in Communist hands with no bargaining leverage to get them released . An American defeat in Vietnam would encourage this kind of aggression all over the world , aggression in which smaller nations armed by their major allies , could be tempted to attack neighboring nations at will in the Mideast , in Europe , and other areas . World peace would be in grave jeopardy . The second course of action is to keep on trying to negotiate a settlement . Now this is the course we have preferred from the beginning and we shall continue to pursue it . We want to negotiate , but we have made every reasonable offer and tried every possible path for ending this war at the conference table . The problem is , as you all know , it takes two to negotiate and now , as throughout the past four years , the North Vietnamese arrogantly refuse to negotiate anything but an imposition , an ultimatum that the United States impose a Communist regime on 17 million people in South Vietnam who do not want a Communist government . It is plain then that what appears to be a choice among three courses of action for the United States is really no choice at all . The killing in this tragic war must stop . By simply getting out , we would only worsen the bloodshed . By relying solely on negotiations , we would give an intransigent enemy the time he needs to press his aggression on the battlefield . There is only one way to stop the killing . That is to keep the weapons of war out of the hands of the international outlaws of North Vietnam . Throughout the war in Vietnam , the United States has exercised a degree of restraint unprecedented in the annals of war . That was our responsibility as a great Nation , a Nation which is interested and we can be proud of this as Americans as America has always been , in peace not conquest . However , when the enemy abandons all restraint , throws its whole army into battle in the territory of its neighbor , refuses to negotiate , we simply face a new situation . In these circumstances , with 60 , 000 Americans threatened , any President who failed to act decisively would have betrayed the trust of his country and betrayed the cause of world peace . I therefore concluded that Hanoi must be denied the weapons and supplies it needs to continue the aggression . In full coordination with the Republic of Vietnam , I have ordered the following measures which are being implemented as I am speaking to you . All entrances to North Vietnamese ports will be mined to prevent access to these ports and North Vietnamese naval operations from these ports . United States forces have been directed to take appropriate measures within the internal and claimed territorial waters of North Vietnam to interdict the delivery of any supplies . Rail and all other communications will be cut off to the maximum extent possible . Air and naval strikes against military targets in North Vietnam will continue . These actions are not directed against any other nation . Countries with ships presently in North Vietnamese ports have already been notified that their ships will have three daylight periods to leave in safety . After that time , the mines will become active and any ships attempting to leave or enter these ports will do so at their own risk . These actions I have ordered will cease when the following conditions are met First , all American prisoners of war must be returned . Second , there must be an internationally supervised cease fire throughout Indochina . Once prisoners of war are released , once the internationally supervised cease fire has begun , we will stop all acts of force throughout Indochina , and at that time we will proceed with a complete withdrawal of all American forces from Vietnam within four months . Now , these terms are generous terms . They are terms which would not require surrender and humiliation on the part of anybody . They would permit the United States to withdraw with honor . They would end the killing . They would bring our POW s home . They would allow negotiations on a political settlement between the Vietnamese themselves . They would permit all the nations which have suffered in this long war Cambodia , Laos , North Vietnam , South Vietnam to turn at last to the urgent works of healing and of peace . They deserve immediate acceptance by North Vietnam . It is appropriate to conclude my remarks tonight with some comments directed individually to each of the major parties involved in the continuing tragedy of the Vietnam war . First , to the leaders of Hanoi , your people have already suffered too much in your pursuit of conquest . Do not compound their agony with continued arrogance choose instead the path of a peace that redeems your sacrifices , guarantees true independence for your country , and ushers in an era of reconciliation . To the people of South Vietnam , you shall continue to have our firm support in your resistance against aggression . It is your spirit that will determine the outcome of the battle . It is your will that will shape the future of your country . To other nations , especially those which are allied with North Vietnam , the actions I have announced tonight are not directed against you . Their sole purpose is to protect the lives of 60 , 000 Americans , who would be gravely endangered in the event that the Communist offensive continues to roll forward , and to prevent the imposition of a Communist government by brutal aggression upon 17 million people . I particularly direct my comments tonight to the Soviet Union . We respect the Soviet Union as a great power . We recognize the right of the Soviet Union to defend its interests when they are threatened . The Soviet Union in turn must recognize our right to defend our interests . No Soviet soldiers are threatened in Vietnam . Sixty thousand Americans are threatened . We expect you to help your allies , and you cannot expect us to do other than to continue to help our allies , but let us , and let all great powers , help our allies only for the purpose of their defense , not for the purpose of launching invasions against their neighbors . Otherwise the cause of peace , the cause in which we both have so great a stake , will be seriously jeopardized . Our two nations have made significant progress in our negotiations in recent months . We are near major agreements on nuclear arms limitation , on trade , on a host of other issues . Let us not slide back toward the dark shadows of a previous age . We do not ask you to sacrifice your principles , or your friends , but neither should you permit Hanoi s intransigence to blot out the prospects we together have so patiently prepared . We , the United States and the Soviet Union , are on the threshold of a new relationship that can serve not only the interests of our two countries , but the cause of world peace . We are prepared to continue to build this relationship . The responsibility is yours if we fail to do so . And finally , may I say to the American people , I ask you for the same strong support you have always given your President in difficult moments . It is you most of all that the world will be watching . I know how much you want to end this war . I know how much you want to bring our men home . And I think you know from all that I have said and done these past 3 1 2 years how much too , want to end the war to bring our men home . You want peace . I want peace . But , you also want honor and not defeat . You want a genuine peace , not a peace that is merely a prelude to another war . At this moment , we must stand together in purpose and resolve . As so often in the past , we Americans did not choose to resort to war . It has been forced upon us by an enemy that has shown utter contempt toward every overture we have made for peace . And that is why , my fellow Americans , tonight I ask for your support of this decision , a decision which has only one purpose , not to expand the war , not to escalate the war , but to end this war and to win the kind of peace that will last . With God s help , with your support , we will accomplish that great goal . Thank you and good night .<speech_sep>Speaker , President , my colleagues in the Congress , our distinguished guests and my fellow Americans To address a joint session of the Congress in this great chamber in which I was once privileged to serve is an honor for which I am deeply grateful . The State of the Union address is traditionally an occasion for a lengthy and detailed account by the President of what he has accomplished in the past , what he wants the Congress to do in the future , and , in an election year , to lay the basis for the political issues which might be decisive in the fall . Occasionally there comes a time when profound and far reaching events command a break with tradition . This is such a time . I say this not only because 1970 marks the beginning of a new decade in which America will celebrate its 200th birthday . I say it because new knowledge and hard experience argue persuasively that both our programs and our institutions in America need to be reformed . The moment has arrived to harness the vast energies and abundance of this land to the creation of a new American experience , an experience richer and deeper and more truly a reflection of the goodness and grace of the human spirit . The 70s will be a time of new beginnings , a time of exploring both on the earth and in the heavens , a time of discovery . But the time has also come for emphasis on developing better ways of managing what we have and of completing what man s genius has begun but left unfinished . Our land , this land that is ours together , is a great and a good land . It is also an unfinished land , and the challenge of perfecting it is the summons of the 70s . It is in that spirit that I address myself to those great issues facing our nation which are above partisanship . When we speak of America s priorities the first priority must always be peace for America and the world . The major immediate goal of our foreign policy is to bring an end to the war in Vietnam in a way that our generation will be remembered not so much as the generation that suffered in war , but more for the fact that we had the courage and character to win the kind of a just peace that the next generation was able to keep . We are making progress toward that goal . The prospects for peace are far greater today than they were a year ago . A major part of the credit for this development goes to the members of this Congress who , despite their differences on the conduct of the war , have overwhelmingly indicated their support of a just peace . By this action , you have completely demolished the enemy s hopes that they can gain in Washington the victory our fighting men have denied them in Vietnam . No goal could be greater than to make the next generation the first in this century in which America was at peace with every nation in the world . I shall discuss in detail the new concepts and programs designed to achieve this goal in a separate report on foreign policy , which I shall submit to the Congress at a later date . Today , let me describe the directions of our new policies . We have based our policies on an evaluation of the world as it is , not as it was 25 years ago at the conclusion of World War IMany of the policies which were necessary and fight then are obsolete today . Then , because of America s overwhelming military and economic strength , because of the weakness of other major free world powers and the inability of scores of newly independent nations to defend , or even govern , themselves , America had to assume the major burden for the defense of freedom in the world . In two wars , first in Korea and now in Vietnam , we furnished most of the money , most of the arms , most of the men to help other nations defend their freedom . Today the great industrial nations of Europe , as well as Japan , have regained their economic strength and the nations of Latin America and many of the nations who acquired their freedom from colonialism after World War II in Asia and Africa have a new sense of pride and dignity and a determination to assume the responsibility for their own defense . That is the basis of the doctrine I announced at Guam . Neither the defense nor the development of other nations can be exclusively or primarily an American undertaking . The nations of each part of the world should assume the primary responsibility for their own well being and they themselves should determine the terms of that well being . We shall be faithful to our treaty commitments , but we shall reduce our involvement and our presence in other nations affairs . To insist that other nations play a role is not a retreat from responsibility it is a sharing of responsibility . The result of this new policy has been not to weaken our alliances , but to give them new life , new strength , a new sense of common purpose . Relations with our European allies are once again strong and healthy , based on mutual consultation and mutual responsibility . We have initiated a new approach to Latin America in which we deal with those nations as partners rather than patrons . The new partnership concept has been welcomed in Asia . We have developed an historic new basis for Japanese American friendship and cooperation , which is the linchpin for peace in the Pacific . If we are to have peace in the last third of the century , a major factor will be the development of a new relationship between the United States and the Soviet Union . I would not underestimate our differences , but we are moving with precision and purpose from an era of confrontation to an era of negotiation . Our negotiations on strategic arms limitations and in other areas will have far greater chance for success if both sides enter them motivated by mutual self interest rather than naive sentimentality . It is with this same spirit that we have resumed discussions with Communist China in our talks at Warsaw . Our concern in our relations with both these nations is to avoid a catastrophic collision and to build a solid basis for peaceful settlement of our differences . I would be the last to suggest that the road to peace is not difficult and dangerous , but I believe our new policies have contributed to the prospect that America may have the best chance since World War II to enjoy a generation of uninterrupted peace . And that chance will be enormously increased if we continue to have a relationship between Congress and the executive in which , despite differences in detail , where the security of America and the peace of mankind are concerned , we act not as Republicans , not as Democrats , but as Americans . As we move into the decade of the 70s , we have the greatest opportunity for progress at home of any people in world history . Our gross national product will increase by 500 billion in the next 10 years . This increase alone is greater than the entire growth of the American economy from 1790 to 1950 . The critical question is not whether we will grow , but how we will use that growth . The decade of the 60s was also a period of great growth economically . But in that same 10 year period we witnessed the greatest growth of crime , the greatest increase in inflation , the greatest social unrest in America in 100 years . Never has a nation seemed to have had more and enjoyed it less . At heart , the issue is the effectiveness of government . Ours has become as it continues to be , and should remain a society of large expectations . Government helped to generate these expectations . It undertook to meet them . Yet , increasingly , it proved unable to do so . As a people , we had too many visions and too little vision . Now , as we enter the 70s , we should enter also a great age of reform of the institutions of American government . Our purpose in this period should not be simply better management of the programs of the past . The time has come for a new quest a quest not for a greater quantity of what we have , but for a new quality of life in America . A major part of the substance for an unprecedented advance in this nation s approach to its problems and opportunities is contained in more than two score legislative proposals which I sent to the Congress last year and which still await enactment . I will offer at least a dozen more major programs in the course of this session . At this point I do not intend to through a detailed listing of what I have proposed or will propose , but I would like to mention three areas in which urgent priorities demand that we move and move now First , we cannot delay longer in accomplishing a total reform of our welfare system . When a system penalizes work , breaks up homes , robs recipients of dignity , there is no alternative to abolishing that system and adopting in its place the program of income support , job training , and work incentives which I recommended to the Congress last year . Second , the time has come to assess and reform all of our institutions of government at the federal , state , and local level . It is time for a New Federalism , in which , after 190 years of power flowing from the people and local and state governments to Washington , C . , it will begin to flow from Washington back to the states and to the people of the United States . Third , we must adopt reforms which will expand the range of opportunities for all Americans . We can fulfill the American dream only when each person has a fair chance to fulfill his own dreams . This means equal voting rights , equal employment opportunity , and new opportunities for expanded ownership . Because in order to be secure in their human rights , people need access to property rights . I could give similar examples of the need for reform in our programs for health , education , housing , transportation , as well as other critical areas which directly affect the well being of millions of Americans . The people of the United States should wait no longer for these reforms that would so deeply enhance the quality of their life . When I speak of actions which would be beneficial to the American people , I can think of none more important than for the Congress to join this administration in the battle to stop the rise in the cost of living . Now , I realize it is tempting to blame someone else for inflation . Some blame business for raising prices . Some blame unions for asking for more wages . But a review of the stark fiscal facts of the 1960s clearly demonstrates where the primary blame for rising prices must be placed . In the decade of the 60s the federal government spent 57 billion more than it took in in taxes . In that same decade the American people paid the bill for that deficit in price increases which raised the cost of living for the average family of four by 200 per month in America . Now millions of Americans are forced to go into debt today because the federal government decided to go into debt yesterday . We must balance our federal budget so that American families will have a better chance to balance their family budgets . Only with the cooperation of the Congress can we meet this highest priority objective of responsible government . We are on the right track . We had a balanced budget in 1969 . This administration cut more than 7 billion out of spending plans in order to produce a surplus in 1970 , and in spite of the fact that Congress reduced revenues by 3 billion , I shall recommend a balanced budget for 1971 . But I can assure you that not only to present , but to stay within , a balanced budget requires some very hard decisions . It means rejecting spending programs which would benefit some of the people when their net effect would result in price increases for all the people . It is time to quit putting good money into bad programs . Otherwise , we will end up with bad money and bad programs . I recognize the political popularity of spending programs , and particularly in an election year . But unless we stop the rise in prices , the cost of living for millions of American families will become unbearable and government s ability to plan programs for progress for the future will become impossible . In referring to budget cuts , there is one area where I have ordered an increase rather than a cut and that is the requests of those agencies with the responsibilities for law enforcement . We have heard a great deal of overblown rhetoric during the 60s in which the word war has perhaps too often been used the war on poverty , the war on misery , the war on disease , the war on hunger . But if there is one area where the word war is appropriate it is in the fight against crime . We must declare and win the war against the criminal elements which increasingly threaten our cities , our homes , and our lives . We have a tragic example of this problem in the nation s capital , for whose safety the Congress and the Executive have the primary responsibility . I doubt if many members of this Congress who live more than a few blocks from here would dare leave their cars in the Capitol garage and walk home alone tonight . Last year this administration sent to the Congress 13 separate pieces of legislation dealing with organized crime , pornography , street crime , narcotics , crime in the District of Columbia . None of these bills has reached my desk for signature . I am confident that the Congress will act now to adopt the legislation I placed before you last year . We in the Executive have done everything we can under existing law , but new and stronger weapons are needed in that fight . While it is true that state and local law enforcement agencies are the cutting edge in the effort to eliminate street crime , burglaries , murder , my proposals to you have embodied my belief that the federal government should play a greater role in working in partnership with these agencies . That is why 1971 federal spending for local law enforcement will double that budgeted for 1970 . The primary responsibility for crimes that affect individuals is with local and state rather than with federal government . But in the field of organized crime , narcotics , pornography , the federal government has a special responsibility it should fulfill . And we should make Washington , C . , where we have the primary responsibility , an example to the nation and the world of respect for law rather than lawlessness . I now turn to a subject which , next to our desire for peace , may well become the major concern of the American people in the decade of the seventies . In the next 10 years we shall increase our wealth by 50 percent . The profound question is Does this mean we will be 50 percent richer in a real sense , 50 percent better off , 50 percent happier Or does it mean that in the year 1980 the President standing in this place will look back on a decade in which 70 percent of our people lived in metropolitan areas choked by traffic , suffocated by smog , poisoned by water , deafened by noise , and terrorized by crime These are not the great questions that concern world leaders at summit conferences . But people do not live at the summit . They live in the foothills of everyday experience , and it is time for all of us to concern ourselves with the way real people live in real life . The great question of the seventies is , shall we surrender to our surroundings , or shall we make our peace with nature and begin to make reparations for the damage we have done to our air , to our land , and to our water Restoring nature to its natural state is a cause beyond party and beyond factions . It has become a common cause of all the people of this country . It is a cause of particular concern to young Americans , because they more than we will reap the grim consequences of our failure to act on programs which are needed now if we are to prevent disaster later . Clean air , clean water , open spaces these should once again be the birthright of every American . If we act now , they can be . We still think of air as free . But clean air is not free , and neither is clean water . The price tag on pollution control is high . Through our years of past carelessness we incurred a debt to nature , and now that debt is being called . The program I shall propose to Congress will be the most comprehensive and costly program in this field in America s history . It is not a program for just one year . A year s plan in this field is no plan at all . This is a time to look ahead not a year , but five years or 10 years whatever time is required to do the job . I shall propose to this Congress a 10 billion nationwide clean waters program to put modern municipal waste treatment plants in every place in America where they are needed to make our waters clean again , and do it now . We have the industrial capacity , if we begin now , to build them all within five years . This program will get them built within five years . As our cities and suburbs relentlessly expand , those priceless open spaces needed for recreation areas accessible to their people are swallowed up often forever . Unless we preserve these spaces while they are still available , we will have none to preserve . Therefore , I shall propose new financing methods for purchasing open space and parklands now , before they are lost to us . The automobile is our worst polluter of the air . Adequate control requires further advances in engine design and fuel composition . We shall intensify our research , set increasingly strict standards , and strengthen enforcement procedures and we shall do it now . We can no longer afford to consider air and water common property , free to be abused by anyone without regard to the consequences . Instead , we should begin now to treat them as scarce resources , which we are no more free to contaminate than we are free to throw garbage into our neighbor s yard . This requires comprehensive new regulations . It also requires that , to the extent possible , the price of goods should be made to include the costs of producing and disposing of them without damage to the environment . Now , I realize that the argument is often made that there is a fundamental contradiction between economic growth and the quality of life , so that to have one we must forsake the other . The answer is not to abandon growth , but to redirect it . For example , we should turn toward ending congestion and eliminating smog the same reservoir of inventive genius that created them in the first place . Continued vigorous economic growth provides us with the means to enrich life itself and to enhance our planet as a place hospitable to man . Each individual must enlist in this fight if it is to be won . It has been said that no matter how many national parks and historical monuments we buy and develop , the truly significant environment for each of us is that in which we spend 80 percent of our time in our homes , in our places of work , the streets over which we travel . Street litter , rundown parking strips and yards , dilapidated fences , broken windows , smoking automobiles , dingy working places , all should be the object of our fresh view . We have been too tolerant of our surroundings and too willing to leave it to others to clean up our environment . It is time for those who make massive demands on society to make some minimal demands on themselves . Each of us must resolve that each day he will leave his home , his property , the public places of the city or town a little cleaner , a little better , a little more pleasant for himself and those around him . With the help of people we can do anything , and without their help , we can do nothing . In this spirit , together , we can reclaim our land for ours and generations to come . Between now and the year 5000 , over 100 million children will be born in the United States . Where they grow up and how will , more than any one thing , measure the quality of American life in these years ahead . This should be a warning to us . For the past 30 years our population has also been growing and shifting . The result is exemplified in the vast areas of rural America emptying out of people and of promise a third of our counties lost population in the 60s . The violent and decayed central cities of our great metropolitan complexes are the most conspicuous area of failure in American life today . I propose that before these problems become insoluble , the nation develop a national growth policy . In the future , government decisions as to where to build highways , locate airports , acquire land , or sell land should be made with a clear objective of aiding a balanced growth for America . In particular , the federal government must be in a position to assist in the building of new cities and the rebuilding of old ones . At the same time , we will carry our concern with the quality of life in America to the farm as well as the suburb , to the village as well as to the city . What rural America needs most is a new kind of assistance . It needs to be dealt with , not as a separate nation , but as part of an overall growth policy for America . We must create a new rural environment which will not only stem the migration to urban centers , but reverse it . If we seize our growth as a challenge , we can make the 1970s an historic period when by conscious choice we transformed our land into what we want it to become . America , which has pioneered in the new abundance , and in the new technology , is called upon today to pioneer in meeting the concerns which have followed in their wake in turning the wonders of science to the service of man . In the majesty of this great chamber we hear the echoes of America s history , of debates that rocked the Union and those that repaired it , of the summons to war and the search for peace , of the uniting of the people , the building of a nation . Those echoes of history remind us of our roots and our strengths . They remind us also of that special genius of American democracy , which at one critical turning point after another has led us to spot the new road to the future and given us the wisdom and the courage to take it . As I look down that new road which I have tried to map out today , I see a new America as we celebrate our 200th anniversary six years from now . I see an America in which we have abolished hunger , provided the means for every family in the nation to obtain a minimum income , made enormous progress in providing better housing , faster transportation , improved health , and superior education . I see an America in which we have checked inflation , and waged a winning war against crime . I see an America in which we have made great strides in stopping the pollution of our air , cleaning up our water , opening up our parks , continuing to explore in space . Most important , I see an America at peace with all the nations of the world . This is not an impossible dream . These goals are all within our reach . In times past , our forefathers had the vision but not the means to achieve such goals . Let it not be recorded that we were the first American generation that had the means but not the vision to make this dream come true . But let us , above all , recognize a fundamental truth . We can be the best clothed , best fed , best housed people in the world , enjoying clean air , clean water , beautiful parks , but we could still be the unhappiest people in the world without an indefinable spirit the lift of a driving dream which has made America , from its beginning , the hope of the world . Two hundred years ago this was a new nation of three million people , weak militarily , poor economically . But America meant something to the world then which could not be measured in dollars , something far more important than military might . Listen to President Thomas Jefferson in 1802 We act not for ourselves alone , but for the whole human race . We had a spiritual quality then which caught the imagination of millions of people in the world . Today , when we are the richest and strongest nation in the world , let it not be recorded that we lack the moral and spiritual idealism which made us the hope of the world at the time of our birth . The demands of us in 1976 are even greater than in 1776 . It is no longer enough to live and let live . Now we must live and help live . We need a fresh climate in America , one in which a person can breathe freely and breathe in freedom . Our recognition of the truth that wealth and happiness are not the same thing requires us to measure success or failure by new criteria . Even more than the programs I have described today , what this nation needs is an example from its elected leaders in providing the spiritual and moral leadership which no programs for material progress can satisfy . Above all , let us inspire young Americans with a sense of excitement , a sense of destiny , a sense of involvement , in meeting the challenges we face in this great period of our history . Only then are they going to have any sense of satisfaction in their lives . The greatest privilege an individual can have is to serve in a cause bigger than himself . We have such a cause . How we seize the opportunities I have described today will determine not only our future , but the future of peace and freedom in this world in the last third of the century . May God give us the wisdom , the strength and , above all , the idealism to be worthy of that challenge , so that America can fulfill its destiny of being the world s best hope for liberty , for opportunity , for progress and peace for all peoples .<speech_sep>Speaker , President , my colleagues in the Congress , our distinguished guests , my fellow Americans We meet here tonight at a time of great challenge and great opportunities for America . We meet at a time when we face great problems at home and abroad that will test the strength of our fiber as a nation . But we also meet at a time when that fiber has been tested , and it has proved strong . America is a great and good land , and we are a great and good land because we are a strong , free , creative people and because America is the single greatest force for peace anywhere in the world . Today , as always in our history , we can base our confidence in what the American people will achieve in the future on the record of what the American people have achieved in the past . Tonight , for the first time in 12 years , a President of the United States can report to the Congress on the state of a Union at peace with every nation of the world . Because of this , in the 22 , 000 word message on the state of the Union that I have just handed to the Speaker of the House and the President of the Senate , I have been able to deal primarily with the problems of peace with what we can do here at home in America for the American people rather than with the problems of war . The measures I have outlined in this message set an agenda for truly significant progress for this nation and the world in 1974 . Before we chart where we are going , let us see how far we have come . It was five years ago on the steps of this Capitol that I took the oath of office as your President . In those five years , because of the initiatives undertaken by this administration , the world has changed . America has changed . As a result of those changes , America is safer today , more prosperous today , with greater opportunity for more of its people than ever before in our history . Five years ago , America was at war in Southeast Asia . We were locked in confrontation with the Soviet Union . We were in hostile isolation from a quarter of the world s people who lived in Mainland China . Five years ago , our cities were burning and besieged . Five years ago , our college campuses were a battleground . Five years ago , crime was increasing at a rate that struck fear across the nation . Five years ago , the spiraling rise in drug addiction was threatening human and social tragedy of massive proportion , and there was no program to deal with it . Five years ago as young Americans bad done for a generation before that America s youth still lived under the shadow of the military draft . Five years ago , there was no national program to preserve our environment . Day by day , our air was getting dirtier , our water was getting more foul . And five years ago , American agriculture was practically a depressed industry with 100 , 000 farm families abandoning the farm every year . As we look at America today , we find ourselves challenged by new problems . But we also find a record of progress to confound the professional criers of doom and prophets of despair . We met the challenges we faced five years ago , and we will be equally confident of meeting those that we face today . Let us see for a moment how we have met them . After more than 10 years of military involvement , all of our troops have returned from Southeast Asia , and they have returned with honor . And we can be proud of the fact that our courageous prisoners of war , for whom a dinner was held in Washington tonight , that they came home with their heads high , on their feet and not on their knees . In our relations with the Soviet Union , we have turned away from a policy of confrontation to one of negotiation . For the first time since World War Ithe world s two strongest powers are working together toward peace in the world . With the People s Republic of China after a generation of hostile isolation , we have begun a period of peaceful exchange and expanding trade . Peace has returned to our cities , to our campuses . The 17 year rise in crime has been stopped . We can confidently say today that we are finally beginning to win the war against crime . Right here in this nation s capital which a few years ago was threatening to become the crime capital of the world the rate in crime has been cut in half . A massive campaign against drug abuse has been organized . And the rate of new heroin addiction , the most vicious threat of all , is decreasing rather than increasing . For the first time in a generation , no young Americans are being drafted into the armed services of the United States . And for the first time ever , we have organized a massive national effort to protect the environment . Our air is getting cleaner , our water is getting purer , and our agriculture , which was depressed , is prospering . Farm income is up 70 percent , farm production is setting all time records , and the billions of dollars the taxpayers were paying in subsidies has been cut to nearly zero . Overall , Americans are living more abundantly than ever before , today . More than two and a half million new jobs were created in the past year alone . That is the biggest percentage increase in nearly 20 years . People are earning more . What they earn buys more , more than ever before in history . In the past five years , the average American s real spendable income that is , what you really can buy with your income , even after allowing for taxes and inflation has increased by 16 percent . Despite this record of achievement , as we turn to the year ahead we hear once again the familiar voice of the perennial prophets of gloom telling us now that because of the need to fight inflation , because of the energy shortage , America may be headed for a recession . Let me speak to that issue head on . There will be no recession in the United States of America . Primarily due to our energy crisis , our economy is passing through a difficult period . But I pledge to you tonight that the full powers of this government will be used to keep America s economy producing and to protect the jobs of America s workers . We are engaged in a long and hard fight against inflation . There have been , and there will be in the future , ups and downs in that fight . But if this Congress cooperates in our efforts to hold down the cost of government , we shall win our fight to hold down the cost of living for the American people . As we look back over our history , the years that stand out as the ones of signal achievement are those in which the administration and the Congress , whether one party or the other , working together , had the wisdom and the foresight to select those particular initiatives for which the nation was ready and the moment was right and in which they seized the moment and acted . Looking at the year 1974 which lies before us , there are ten key areas in which landmark accomplishments are possible this year in America . If we make these our national agenda , this is what we will achieve in 1974 We will break the back of the energy crisis we will lay the foundation for our future capacity to meet America s energy needs from America s own resources . And we will take another giant stride toward lasting peace in the world not only by continuing our policy of negotiation rather than confrontation where the great powers are concerned but also by helping toward the achievement of a just and lasting settlement in the Middle East . We will check the rise in prices without administering the harsh medicine of recession , and we will move the economy into a steady period of growth at a sustainable level . We will establish a new system that makes high quality health care available to every American in a dignified manner and at a price he can afford . We will make our states and localities more responsive to the needs of their own citizens . We will make a crucial breakthrough toward better transportation in our towns and in our cities across America . We will reform our system of federal aid to education , to provide it when it is needed , where it is needed , so that it will do the most for those who need it the most . We will make an historic beginning on the task of defining and protecting the right of personal privacy for every American . And we will start on a new road toward reform of a welfare system that bleeds the taxpayer , corrodes the community , and demeans those it is intended to assist . And together with the other nations of the world , we will establish the economic framework within which Americans will share more fully in an expanding worldwide trade and prosperity in the years ahead , with more open access to both markets and supplies . In all of the 186 State of the Union messages delivered from this place , in our history this is the first in which the one priority , the first priority , is energy . Let me begin by reporting a new development which I know will be welcome news to every American . As you know , we have committed ourselves to an active role in helping to achieve a just and durable peace in the Middle East , on the basis of full implementation of Security Council Resolutions 242 and 338 . The first step in the process is the disengagement of Egyptian and Israeli forces which is now taking place . Because of this hopeful development , I can announce tonight that I have been assured , through my personal contacts with friendly leaders in the Middle Eastern area , that an urgent meeting will be called in the immediate future to discuss the lifting of the oil embargo . This is an encouraging sign . However , it should be clearly understood by our friends in the Middle East that the United States will not be coerced on this issue . Regardless of the outcome of this meeting , the cooperation of the American people in our energy conservation program has already gone a long way towards achieving a goal to which I am deeply dedicated . Let us do everything we can to avoid gasoline rationing in the United States of America . Last week , I sent to the Congress a comprehensive special message setting forth our energy situation , recommending the legislative measures which are necessary to a program for meeting our needs . If the embargo is lifted , this will ease the crisis , but it will not mean an end to the energy shortage in America . Voluntary conservation will continue to be necessary . And let me take this occasion to pay tribute once again to the splendid spirit of cooperation the American people have shown which has made possible our success in meeting this emergency up to this time . The new legislation I have requested will also remain necessary . Therefore , I urge again that the energy measures that I have proposed be made the first priority of this session of the Congress . These measures will require the oil companies and other energy producers to provide the public with the necessary information on their supplies . They will prevent the injustice of windfall profits for a few as a result of the sacrifices of the millions of Americans . And they will give us the organization , the incentives , the authorities needed to deal with the short term emergency and to move toward meeting our long term needs . Just as 1970 was the year in which we began a full scale effort to protect the environment , 1974 must be the year in which we organize a full scale effort to provide for our energy needs , not only in this decade but through the 21st century . As we move toward the celebration two years from now of the 200th anniversary of this nation s independence , let us press vigorously on toward the goal I announced last November for Project Independence . Let this be our national goal At the end of this decade , in the year 1980 , the United States will not be dependent on any other country for the energy we need to provide our jobs , to heat our homes , and to keep our transportation moving . To indicate the size of the government commitment , to spur energy research and development , we plan to spend 10 billion in federal funds over the next five years . That is an enormous amount . But during the same five years , private enterprise will be investing as much as 200 billion and in 10 years , 500 billion to develop the new resources , the new technology , the new capacity America will require for its energy needs in the 1980s . That is just a measure of the magnitude of the project we are undertaking . But America performs best when called to its biggest tasks . It can truly be said that only in America could a task so tremendous be achieved so quickly , and achieved not by regimentation , but through the effort and ingenuity of a free people , working in a free system . Turning now to the rest of the agenda for 1974 , the time is at hand this year to bring comprehensive , high quality health care within the reach of every American . I shall propose a sweeping new program that will assure comprehensive health insurance protection to millions of Americans who cannot now obtain it or afford it , with vastly improved protection against catastrophic illnesses . This will be a plan that maintains the high standards of quality in America s health care . And it will not require additional taxes . Now , I recognize that other plans have been put forward that would cost 80 billion or even 100 billion and that would put our whole health care system under the heavy hand of the federal government . This is the wrong approach . This has been tried abroad , and it has failed . It is not the way we do things here in America . This kind of plan would threaten the quality of care provided by our whole health care system . The right way is one that builds on the strengths of the present system and one that does not destroy those strengths , one based on partnership , not paternalism . Most important of all , let us keep this as the guiding principle of our health programs . Government has a great role to play , but we must always make sure that our doctors will be working for their patients and not for the federal government . Many of you will recall that in my State of the Union address three years ago , I commented that Most Americans today are simply fed up with government at all levels , and I recommended a sweeping set of proposals to revitalize state and local governments , to make them more responsive to the people they serve . I can report to you today that as a result of revenue sharing passed by the Congress , and other measures , we have made progress toward that goal . After 40 years of moving power from the states and the communities to Washington , C . , we have begun moving power back from Washington to the states and communities and , most important , to the people of America . In this session of the Congress , I believe we are near the breakthrough point on efforts which I have suggested , proposals to let people themselves make their own decisions for their own communities and , in particular , on those to provide broad new flexibility in federal aid for community development , for economic development , for education . And I look forward to working with the Congress , with members of both parties in resolving whatever remaining differences we have in this legislation so that we can make available nearly 5 . 5 billion to our states and localities to use not for what a federal bureaucrat may want , but for what their own people in those communities want . The decision should be theirs . I think all of us recognize that the energy crisis has given new urgency to the need to improve public transportation , not only in our cities but in rural areas as well . The program I have proposed this year will give communities not only more money but also more freedom to balance their own transportation needs . It will mark the strongest federal commitment ever to the improvement of mass transit as an essential element of the improvement of life in our towns and cities . One goal on which all Americans agree is that our children should have the very best education this great nation can provide . In a special message last week , I recommended a number of important new measures that can make 1974 a year of truly significant advances for our schools and for the children they serve . If the Congress will act on these proposals , more flexible funding will enable each federal dollar to meet better the particular need of each particular school district . Advance funding will give school authorities a chance to make each year s plans , knowing ahead of time what federal funds they are going to receive . Special targeting will give special help to the truly disadvantaged among our people . College students faced with rising costs for their education will be able to draw on an expanded program of loans and grants . These advances are a needed investment in America s most precious resource , our next generation . And I urge the Congress to act on this legislation in 1974 . One measure of a truly free society is the vigor with which it protects the liberties of its individual citizens . As technology has advanced in America , it has increasingly encroached on one of those liberties what I term the right of personal privacy . Modern information systems , data banks , credit records , mailing list abuses , electronic snooping , the collection of personal data for one purpose that may be used for another all these have left millions of Americans deeply concerned by the privacy they cherish . And the time has come , therefore , for a major initiative to define the nature and extent of the basic rights of privacy and to erect new safeguards to ensure that those rights are respected . I shall launch such an effort this year at the highest levels of the administration , and I look forward again to working with this Congress in establishing a new set of standards that respect the legitimate needs of society , but that also recognize personal privacy as a cardinal principle of American liberty . Many of those in this chamber tonight will recall that it was three years ago that I termed the nation s welfare system a monstrous , consuming outrage an outrage against the community , against the taxpayer , and particularly against the children that it is supposed to help . That system is still an outrage . By improving its administration , we have been able to reduce some of the abuses . As a result , last year , for the first time in 18 years , there has been a halt in the growth of the welfare caseload . But as a system , our welfare program still needs reform as urgently today as it did when I first proposed in 1969 that we completely replace it with a different system . In these final three years of my administration , I urge the Congress to join me in mounting a major new effort to replace the discredited present welfare system with one that works , one that is fair to those who need help or cannot help themselves , fair to the community , and fair to the taxpayer . And let us have as our goal that there will be no government program which makes it more profitable to go on welfare than to go to work . I recognize that from the debates that have taken place within the Congress over the past three years on this program that we cannot expect enactment overnight of a new reform . But I do propose that the Congress and the administration together make this the year in which we discuss , debate , and shape such a reform so that it can be enacted as quickly as possible . America s own prosperity in the years ahead depends on our sharing fully and equitably in an expanding world prosperity . Historic negotiations will take place this year that will enable us to ensure fair treatment in international markets for American workers , American farmers , American investors , and American consumers . It is vital that the authorities contained in the trade bill I submitted to the Congress be enacted so that the United States can negotiate flexibly and vigorously on behalf of American interests . These negotiations can usher in a new era of international trade that not only increases the prosperity of all nations but also strengthens the peace among all nations . In the past five years , we have made more progress toward a lasting structure of peace in the world than in any comparable time in the nation s history . We could not have made that progress if we had not maintained the military strength of America . Thomas Jefferson once observed that the price of liberty is eternal vigilance . By the same token , and for the same reason , in today s world the price of peace is a strong defense as far as the United States is concerned . In the past five years , we have steadily reduced the burden of national defense as a share of the budget , bringing it down from 44 percent in 1969 to 29 percent in the current year . We have cut our military manpower over the past five years by more than a third , from 3 . 5 million to 2 . 2 million . In the coming year , however , increased expenditures will be needed . They will be needed to assure the continued readiness of our military forces , to preserve present force levels in the face of rising costs , and to give us the military strength we must have if our security is to be maintained and if our initiatives for peace are to succeed . The question is not whether we can afford to maintain the necessary strength of our defense , the question is whether we can afford not to maintain it , and the answer to that question is no . We must never allow America to become the second strongest nation in the world . I do not say this with any sense of belligerence , because I recognize the fact that is recognized around the world . America s military strength has always been maintained to keep the peace , never to break it . It has always been used to defend freedom , never to destroy it . The world s peace , as well as our own , depends on our remaining as strong as we need to be as long as we need to be . In this year 1974 , we will be negotiating with the Soviet Union to place further limits on strategic nuclear arms . Together with our allies , we will be negotiating with the nations of the Warsaw Pact on mutual and balanced reduction of forces in Europe . And we will continue our efforts to promote peaceful economic development in Latin America , in Africa , in Asia . We will press for full compliance with the peace accords that brought an end to American fighting in Indochina , including particularly a provision that promised the fullest possible accounting for those Americans who are missing in action . And having in mind the energy crisis to which I have referred to earlier , we will be working with the other nations of the world toward agreement on means by which oil supplies can be assured at reasonable prices on a stable basis in a fair way to the consuming and producing nations alike . All of these are steps toward a future in which the world s peace and prosperity , and ours as well as a result , are made more secure . Throughout the five years that I have served as your President , I have had one overriding aim , and that was to establish a new structure of peace in the world that can free future generations of the scourge of war . I can understand that others may have different priorities . This has been and this will remain my first priority and the chief legacy I hope to leave from the eight years of my Presidency . This does not mean that we shall not have other priorities , because as we strengthen the peace , we must also continue each year a steady strengthening of our society here at home . Our conscience requires it , our interests require it , and we must insist upon it . As we create more jobs , as we build a better health care system , as we improve our education , as we develop new sources of energy , as we provide more abundantly for the elderly and the poor , as we strengthen the system of private enterprise that produces our prosperity as we do all of this and even more , we solidify those essential bonds that hold us together as a nation . Even more importantly , we advance what in the final analysis government in America is all about . What it is all about is more freedom , more security , a better life for each one of the 211 million people that live in this land . We cannot afford to neglect progress at home while pursuing peace abroad . But neither can Ave afford to neglect peace abroad while pursuing progress at home . With a stable peace , all is possible , but without peace , nothing is possible . In the written message that I have just delivered to the Speaker and to the President of the Senate , I commented that one of the continuing challenges facing us in the legislative process is that of the timing and pacing of our initiatives , selecting each year among many worthy projects those that are ripe for action at that time . What is true in terms of our domestic initiatives is true also in the world . This period we now are in , in the world and I say this as one who has seen so much of the world , not only in these past five years but going back over many years we are in a period which presents a juncture of historic forces unique in this century . They provide an opportunity we may never have again to create a structure of peace solid enough to last a lifetime and more , not just peace in our time but peace in our children s time as well . It is on the way we respond to this opportunity , more than anything else , that history will judge whether we in America have met our responsibility . And I am confident we will meet that great historic responsibility which is ours today . It was 27 years ago that John Kennedy and I sat in this chamber , as freshmen Congressmen , hearing our first State of the Union address delivered by Harry Truman . I know from my talks with him , as members of the Labor Committee on which we both served , that neither of us then even dreamed that either one or both might eventually be standing in this place that I now stand in now and that he once stood in , before me . It may well be that one of the freshmen members of the 93rd Congress , one of you out there , will deliver his own State of the Union message 27 years from now , in the year 2001 . Well , whichever one it is , I want you to be able to look back with pride and to say that your first years here were great years and recall that you were here in this 93rd Congress when America ended its longest war and began its longest peace . Speaker , and President , and my distinguished colleagues and our guests I would like to add a personal word with regard to an issue that has been of great concern to all Americans over the past year . I refer , of course , to the investigations of the so called Watergate affair . As you know , I have provided to the Special Prosecutor voluntarily a great deal of material . I believe that I have provided all the material that he needs to conclude his investigations and to proceed to prosecute the guilty and to clear the innocent . I believe the time has come to bring that investigation and the other investigations of this matter to an end . One year of Watergate is enough . And the time has come , my colleagues , for not only the executive , the President , but the members of Congress , for all of us to join together in devoting our full energies to these great issues that I have discussed tonight which involve the welfare of all of the American people in so many different ways , as well as the peace of the world . I recognize that the House Judiciary Committee has a special responsibility in this area , and I want to indicate on this occasion that I will cooperate with the Judiciary Committee in its investigation . I will cooperate so that it can conclude its investigation , make its decision , and I will cooperate in any way that I consider consistent with my responsibilities to the Office of the Presidency of the United States . There is only one limitation . I will follow the precedent that has been followed by and defended by every President from George Washington to Lyndon Johnson of never doing anything that weakens the Office of the President of the United States or impairs the ability of the Presidents of the future to make the great decisions that are so essential to this nation and the world . Another point I should like to make very briefly Like every member of the House and Senate assembled here tonight , I was elected to the office that I hold . And like every member of the House and Senate , when I was elected to that office , I knew that I was elected for the purpose of doing a job and doing it as well as I possibly can . And I want you to know that I have no intention whatever of ever walking away from the job that the people elected me to do for the people of the United States . Now , needless to say , it would be understatement if I were not to admit that the year 1973 was not a very easy year for me personally or for my family . And as I have already indicated , the year 1974 presents very great and serious problems , as very great and serious opportunities are also presented . But my colleagues , this I believe With the help of God , who has blessed this land so richly , with the cooperation of the Congress , and with the support of the American people , we can and we will make the year 1974 a year of unprecedented progress toward our goal of building a structure of lasting peace in the world and a new prosperity without war in the United States of America .<speech_sep>Members of the Cabinet , members of the White House Staff , all of our friends here I think the record should show that this is one of those spontaneous things that we always arrange whenever the President comes in to speak , and it will be so reported in the press , and we do not mind , because they have to call it as they see it . But on our part , believe me , it is spontaneous . You are here to say goodby to us , and we do not have a good word for it in English the best is au revoir . We will see you again . I just met with the members of the White House staff , you know , those who serve here in the White House day in and day out , and I asked them to do what I ask all of you to do to the extent that you can and , of course , are requested to do so to serve our next President as you have served me and previous Presidents because many of you have been here for many years with devotion and dedication , because this office , great as it is , can only be as great as the men and women who work for and with the President . This house , for example I was thinking of it as we walked down this hall , and I was comparing it to some of the great houses of the world that I have been in . This is not the biggest house . Many , and most , in even smaller countries , are much bigger . This is not the finest house . Many in Europe , particularly , and in China , Asia , have paintings of great , great value , things that we just do not have here and , probably , will never have until we are 1 , 000 years old or older . But this is the best house . It is the best house , because it has something far more important than numbers of people who serve , far more important than numbers of rooms or how big it is , far more important than numbers of magnificent pieces of art . This house has a great heart , and that heart comes from those who serve . I was rather sorry they did not come down . We said goodby to them upstairs . But they are really great . And I recall after so many times I have made speeches , and some of them pretty tough , yet , I always come back , or after a hard day and my days usually have run rather long I would always get a lift from them , because I might be a little down but they always smiled . And so it is with you . I look around here , and I see so many on this staff that , you know , I should have been by your offices and shaken hands , and I would love to have talked to you and found out how to run the world everybody wants to tell the President what to do , and boy , he needs to be told many times but I just have not had the time . But I want you to know that each and every one of you , I know , is indispensable to this Government . I am proud of this Cabinet . I am proud of all the members who have served in our Cabinet . I am proud of our sub Cabinet . I am proud of our White House Staff . As I pointed out last night , sure , we have done some things wrong in this Administration , and the top man always takes the responsibility , and I have never ducked it . But I want to say one thing We can be proud of it 5 1 2 years . No man or no woman came into this Administration and left it with more of this world s goods than when he came in . No man or no woman ever profited at the public expense or the public till . That tells something about you . Mistakes , yes . But for personal gain , never . You did what you believed in . Sometimes right , sometimes wrong . And I only wish that I were a wealthy man at the present time , I have got to find a way to pay my taxes and if I were , I would like to recompense you for the sacrifices that all of you have made to serve in government . But you are getting something in government and I want you to tell this to your children , and I hope the Nation s children will hear it , too something in government service that is far more important than money . It is a cause bigger than yourself . It is the cause of making this the greatest nation in the world , the leader of the world , because without our leadership , the world will know nothing but war , possibly starvation or worse , in the years ahead . With our leadership it will know peace , it will know plenty . We have been generous , and we will be more generous in the future as we are able to . But most important , we must be strong here , strong in our hearts , strong in our souls , strong in our belief , and strong in our willingness to sacrifice , as you have been willing to sacrifice , in a pecuniary way , to serve in government . There is something else I would like for you to tell your young people . You know , people often come in and say , What will I tell my kids They look at government and say , sort of a rugged life , and they see the mistakes that are made . They get the impression that everybody is here for the purpose of feathering his nest . That is why I made this earlier point not in this Administration , not one single man or woman . And I say to them , there are many fine careers . This country needs good farmers , good businessmen , good plumbers , good carpenters . I remember my old man . I think that they would have called him sort of a little man , common man . He did not consider himself that way . You know what he was He was a streetcar motorman first , and then he was a farmer , and then he had a lemon ranch . It was the poorest lemon ranch in California , I can assure you . He sold it before they found oil on it . And then he was a grocer . But he was a great man , because he did his job , and every job counts up to the hilt , regardless of what happens . Nobody will ever write a book , probably , about my mother . Well , I guess all of you would say this about your mother my mother was a saint . And I think of her , two boys dying of tuberculosis , nursing four others in order that she could take care of my older brother for three years in Arizona , and seeing each of them die , and when they died , it was like one of her own . Yes , she will have no books written about her . But she was a saint . Now , however , we look to the future . I had a little quote in the speech last night from As you know , I kind of like to read books . I am not educated , but I do read books and the quote was a pretty good one . Here is another one I found as I was reading , my last night in the White House , and this quote is about a young man . He was a young lawyer in New York . He had married a beautiful girl , and they had a lovely daughter , and then suddenly she died , and this is what he wrote . This was in his diary . He said , She was beautiful in face and form and lovelier still in spirit . As a flower she grew and as a fair young flower she died . Her life had been always in the sunshine . There had never come to her a single great sorrow . None ever knew her who did not love and revere her for her bright and sunny temper and her saintly unselfishness . Fair , pure and joyous as a maiden , loving , tender and happy as a young wife . When she had just become a mother , when her life seemed to be just begun and when the years seemed so bright before her , then by a strange and terrible fate death came to her . And when my heart s dearest died , the light went from my life forever . That was in his twenties . He thought the light had gone from his life forever but he went on . And he not only became President but , as an ex President , he served his country , always in the arena , tempestuous , strong , sometimes wrong , sometimes right , but he was a man . And as I leave , let me say , that is an example I think all of us should remember . We think sometimes when things happen that do not go the right way we think that when you do not pass the bar exam the first time I happened to , but I was just lucky I mean , my writing was so poor the bar examiner said , We have just got to let the guy through . We think that when someone dear to us dies , we think that when we lose an election , we think that when we suffer a defeat that all is ended . We think , as said , that the light had left his life forever . Not true . It is only a beginning , always . The young must know it the old must know it . It must always sustain us , because the greatness comes not when things go always good for you , but the greatness comes and you are really tested , when you take some knocks , some disappointments , when sadness comes , because only if you have been in the deepest valley can you ever know how magnificent it is to be on the highest mountain . And so I say to you on this occasion , as we leave , we leave proud of the people who have stood by us and worked for us and served this country . We want you to be proud of what you have done . We want you to continue to serve in government , if that is your wish . Always give your best , never get discouraged , never be petty always remember , others may hate you , but those who hate you do not win unless you hate them , and then you destroy yourself . And so , we leave with high hopes , in good spirit , and with deep humility , and with very much gratefulness in our hearts . I can only say to each and every one of you , we come from many faiths , we pray perhaps to different gods but really the same God in a sense but I want to say for each and every one of you , not only will we always remember you , not only will we always be grateful to you but always you will be in our hearts and you will be in our prayers . Thank you very much .<speech_sep>