Members of the Congress In reporting to the Congress the state of the Union , I find it impossible to characterize it other than one of general peace and prosperity . In some quarters our diplomacy is vexed with difficult and as yet unsolved problems , but nowhere are we met with armed conflict . If some occupations and areas are not flourishing , in none does there remain any acute chronic depression . What the country requires is not so much new policies as a steady continuation of those which are already being crowned with such abundant success . It can not be too often repeated that in common with all the world we are engaged in liquidating the war . In the present short session no great amount of new legislation is possible , but in order to comprehend what is most desirable some survey of our general situation is necessary . A large amount of time is consumed in the passage of appropriation bills . If each Congress in its opening session would make appropriations to continue for two years , very much time would be saved which could either be devoted to a consideration of the general needs of the country or would result in decreasing the work of legislation . ECONOMY Our present state of prosperity has been greatly promoted by three important causes , one of which is economy , resulting in reduction and reform in national taxation . Another is the elimination of many kinds of waste . The third is a general raising of the standards of efficiency . This combination has brought the perfectly astonishing result of a reduction in the index price of commodities and an increase in the index rate of wages . We have secured a lowering of the cost to produce and a raising of the ability to consume . Prosperity resulting from these causes rests on the securest of all foundations . It gathers strength from its own progress . In promoting this progress the chief part which the National Government plays lies in the field of economy . Whatever doubts may have been entertained as to the necessity of this policy and the beneficial results which would accrue from it to all the people of the Nation , its wisdom must now be considered thoroughly demonstrated . It may not have appeared to be a novel or perhaps brilliant conception , but it has turned out to be preeminently sound . It hasnot failed to work . It has surely brought results . It does not have to be excused as a temporary expedient adopted as the lesser evil to remedy some abuse , it is not . a palliative seeking to treat symptoms , but a major operation for the , eradication at the source of a large number of social diseases . Nothing is easier than the expenditure of public money . It does not appear to belong to anybody . The temptation is overwhelming to bestow it on somebody . But the results of extravagance are ruinous . The property of the country , like the freedom of the country , belongs to the people of the country . They have not empowered their Government to take a dollar of it except for a necessary public purpose . But if the Constitution conferred such right , sound economics would forbid it . Nothing is more , destructive of the progress of the Nation than government extravagance . It means an increase in the burden of taxation , dissipation of the returns from enterprise , a decrease in the real value of wages , with ultimate stagnation and decay . The whole theory of our institutions is based on the liberty and independence of the individual . He is dependent on himself for support and therefore entitled to the rewards of his own industry . He is not to be deprived of what he earns that others may be benefited by what they do not earn . What lie saves through his private effort is not to be wasted by Government extravagance . Our national activities have become so vast that it is necessary to scrutinize each item of public expenditure if we are to apply the principle of economy . At the last session we made an immediate increase in the annual budget of more than 100 , 000 , 000 in benefits conferred on the veterans of three wars , public buildings , and river and harbor improvement . Many projects are being broached requiring further large outlays . I am convinced that it would be greatly for the welfare of the country if we avoid at the present session all commitments except those of the most pressing nature . From a reduction of the debt and taxes will accrue a wider benefit to all the people of this country than from embarking on any new enterprise . When our war debt is decreased we shall have resources for expansion . Until that is accomplished we should confine ourselves to expenditures of the most urgent necessity . The Department of Commerce has performed a most important function in making plans and securing support of all kinds of national enterprise for the elimination of waste . Efficiency has been greatly promoted through good management and the constantly increasing cooperation of the wage earners throughout the whole realm of private business . It is my opinion that this whole development has been predicated on the foundation of a protective tariff . TAX REDUCTION As a result of economy of administration by the Executive and of appropriation by the Congress , the end of this fiscal year will leave a surplus in the Treasury estimated at 383 , 000 , 000 . Unless otherwise ordered , such surplus is used for the retirement of the war debt . A bond which can be retired today for 100 cents will cost the , people 104 1 4 cents to retire a year from now . While I favor a speedy reduction of the debt as already required by law and in accordance with the promises made to the holders of our Liberty bonds when they were issued , there is no reason why a balanced portion of surplus revenue should not be applied to a reduction of taxation . It can not be repeated too often that the enormous revenues of this Nation could not be collected without becoming a charge on all the people whether or not they directly pay taxes . Everyone who is paying or the bare necessities of fool and shelter and clothing , without considering the better things of life , is indirectly paying a national tax . The nearly 20 , 000 , 000 owners of securities , the additional scores of millions of holders of insurance policies and depositors in savings banks , are all paying a national tax . Millions of individuals and corporations are making a direct contribution to the National Treasury which runs from 11 2 to 25 per cent of their income , besides a number of special requirements , like automobile and admission taxes . Whenever the state of the Treasury will permit , I believe in a reduction of taxation . I think the taxpayers are entitled to it . But I am not advocating tax reduction merely for the benefit of the taxpayer I am advocating it for the benefit of the country . If it appeared feasible , I should welcome permanent tax reduction at this time . The estimated surplus , however , for June 30 , 1928 , is not much larger than is required in a going business of nearly 4 , 000 , 000 , 000 . We have had but a few months experience under the present revenue act and shall need to know what is developed by the returns of income produced under it , which are not required t o be made until about the time this session terminates , and what the economic probabilities of the country are in the latter part of 1927 , before we can reach any justifiable conclusion as to permanent tax reduction . Moreover the present surplus results from many nonrecurrent items . Meantime , it is possible to grant some real relief by a simple measure making reductions in the payments which accrue on the 15th of March and June , 1927 . 1 am very strongly of the conviction that this is so much a purely business matter that it ought not to be dealt with in a partisan spirit . The Congress has already set the notable example of treating tax problems without much reference to party , which might well be continued . What I desire to advocate most earnestly is relief for the country from unnecessary tax burdens . We can not secure that if we stop to engage in a partisan controversy . As I do not think any change in the special taxes , or tiny permanent reduction is practical , I therefore urge both parties of the House Ways and Means Committee to agree on a bill granting the temporary relief which I have indicated . Such a reduction would directly affect millions of taxpayers , release large sums for investment in new enterprise , stimulating industrial production and agricultural consumption , and indirectly benefiting every family in the whole country . These are my convictions stated with full knowledge that it is for the Congress to decide whether they judge it best to make such a reduction or leave the surplus for the present year to be applied to retirement of the war debt . That also is eventually tax reduction . PROTECTIVE TARIFF It is estimated that customs receipts for the present fiscal year will exceed 615 , 000 , 000 , the largest which were ever secured from that source . The value of our imports for the last fiscal year was 4 , 466 , 000 , 000 , an increase of more than 71 per cent since the present tariff law went into effect . Of these imports about 65 per cent , or , roughly , 2 , 900 , 000 , 000 , came in free of duty , which means that the United States affords a duty free market to other countries almost equal in value to the total imports of Germany and greatly exceeding the total imports of France . We have admitted a greater volume of free imports than any other country except England . We are , therefore , levying duties on about 1 , 550 , 000 , 000 of imports . Nearly half of this , or 700 , 000 , 000 , is subject to duties for the protection of agriculture and have their origin in countries other than Europe . They substantially increased the prices received by our farmers for their produce . About 300 , 000 . 000 more is represented by luxuries such as costly rugs , furs , precious stones , etc . This leaves only about 550 , 000 , 000 of our imports under a schedule of duties which is in general under consideration when there is discussion of lowering the tariff . While the duties on this small portion , representing only about 12 per cent of our imports , undoubtedly represent the difference between a fair degree of prosperity or marked depression to many of our industries and the difference between good pay and steady work or wide unemployment to many of our wage earners , it is impossible to conceive how other countries or our own importers could be greatly benefited if these duties are reduced . Those who are starting an agitation for a reduction of tariff duties , partly at least for the benefit of those to whom money has been lent abroad , ought to know that there does not seem to be a very large field within the area of our imports in which probable reductions would be advantageous to foreign goods . Those who wish to benefit foreign producers are much more likely to secure that result by continuing the present enormous purchasing power which comes from our prosperity that hall increased our imports over 71 per cent in four years than from any advantages that are likely to accrue from a general tariff reduction . AGRICULTURE The important place which agriculture holds in the economic and social life of the Nation can not be overestimated . The National Government is justified in putting forth every effort to make the open country a desirable place to live . No condition meets this requirement which fails to supply a fair return on labor expended and capital invested . While some localities and some particular crops furnish exceptions , in general agriculture is continuing to make progress in recovering from the depression of 1921 and 1922 . Animal products and food products are in a more encouraging position , while cotton , due to the high prices of past years supplemented by ideal weather conditions , has been stimulated to a point of temporary over production . Acting on the request of the cotton growing interests , appointed a committee to assist in carrying out their plans . As it result of this cooperation sufficient funds have been pledged to finance the storage and carrying of 4 , 000 , 000 bales of cotton . Whether those who own the cotton are willing to put a part of their stock into this plan depends on themselves . The Federal Government has cooperated in providing ample facilities . No method of meeting the situation would be adequate which does not contemplate a reduction of about one third in the acreage for the coming year . The responsibility for making the plan effective lies with those who own and finance cotton and cotton lands . The Department of Agriculture estimates the net income of agriculture for the year 1920 21 at only 375 , 000 , 000 for 1924 25 , 2 , 656 , 000 , 000 for 1925 26 , 2 , 757 , 000 , 000 . This increase has been brought about in part by the method already referred to , of Federal tax reduction , the elimination of waste , and increased efficiency in industry . The wide gap that existed a few years ago between the index price of agricultural products and the index price of other products has been gradually closing up , though the recent depression in cotton has somewhat enlarged it . Agriculture had on the whole been going higher while industry had been growing lower . Industrial and commercial activities , being carried on for the most part by corporations , are taxed at a much higher rate than farming , which is carried on by individuals . This will inevitably make industrial commodity costs high while war taxation lasts . It is because of this circumstance that national tax reduction has a very large indirect benefit upon the farmer , though it can not relieve him from the very great burden of the local taxes which he pays directly . We have practically relieved the farmer of any Federal income tax . There is agreement on all sides that some portions of our agricultural industry have lagged behind other industries in recovery from the war and that further improvement in methods of marketing of agricultural products is most desirable . There is belief also that the Federal Government can further contribute to these ends beyond the many helpful measures taken during the last five years through the different acts of Congress for advancing the interests of the farmers . The packers and stockyards act , Establishing of the intermediate credit banks for agricultural purposes , The Purnell Act for agricultural research , The Capper Volstead Cooperative Marketing Act , The cooperative marketing act of 1926 , Amendments to the warehousing act , The enlargement of the activities of the Department of Agriculture , Enlargement of the scope of loans by the Farm Loan Board , The tariff on agricultural products , The large Federal expenditure in improvement of waterways and highways , The reduction of Federal taxes , in all comprise a great series of governmental actions in the advancement of the special interest of agriculture . In determination of what further measures may be undertaken it seems to me there are certain pitfalls which must be avoided and our test in avoiding them should be to avoid disaster to the farmer himself . Acting upon my recommendation , the Congress has ordered the interstate Commerce Commission to investigate the freight rate structure , directing that such changes shall be made in freight rates as will promote freedom of movement of agricultural products . Railroad consolidation which I am advocating would also result in a situation where rates could be made more advantageous for farm produce , as has recently been done in the revision of rates on fertilizers in the South . Additional benefit will accrue from the development of our inland waterways . The Mississippi River system carries a commerce of over 50 , 000 , 000 tons at a saving of nearly 18 , 000 , 000 annually . The Inland Waterways Corporation operates boats on 2 , 500 miles of navigable streams and through its relation with 165 railroads carries freight into and out of 45 States of the Union . During the past six months it has handled over 1 , 000 , 000 bushels of grain monthly and by its lower freight rates has raised the price of such grain to the farmer probably 21 2 cents to 3 cents a bushel . The highway system on which the Federal Government expends about 85 , 000 , 000 a year is of vital importance to the rural regions . The advantages to be derived from a more comprehensive and less expensive system . of transportation for agriculture ought to be supplemented by provision for an adequate supply of fertilizer at a lower cost than it is at . present obtainable . This advantage we are attempting to secure by the proposed development at Muscle Shoals , and there are promising experiments being made in synthetic chemistry for the production of nitrates . A survey should be made of the relation of Government grazing lands to the livestock industry . Additional legislation is desirable more definitely to establish the place of grazing in the administration of the national forests , properly subordinated to their functions of producing timber and conserving the water supply . Over 180 , 000 , 000 acres of grazing lands are still pastured as commons in the public domain with little or no regulation . This has made their use so uncertain that it has contributed greatly to the instability of the livestock industry . Very little of this land is suited to settlement or private ownership . Some plan ought to be adopted for its use in grazing , corresponding broadly to that already successfully applied to the national forests . The development of sound and strong cooperative associations is of fundamental importance to our agriculture . It is encouraging to note , therefore , that a vigorous and healthy growth in the cooperative movement is continuing . Cooperative associations reporting to the Department of Agriculture at the end of 1925 had on their membership rolls a total of 2 , 700 , 000 producers . Their total business in 1925 amounted to approximately 2 , 400 , 000 , 000 , compared with 635 , 800 , 000 in 1915 . Legislative action to assist cooperative associations and supplement their efforts was passed at the last session of Congress . Important credit measures were also provided by Congress in 1923 which have been of inestimable value to the cooperative associations . Although the Federal credit agencies have served agriculture well , I think it may be possible to broaden and strengthen the service of these institutions . Attention is again directed to the surplus problem of agriculture by the present cotton situation . Surpluses often affect prices of various farm commodities in a disastrous manner , and the problem urgently demand , a solution . Discussions both in and out of Congress during the past few years have given us a better understanding of the subject , and it is my hope that out of the various proposals made the basis will be found for a sound and effective solution upon which agreement can be reached . In my opinion cooperative marketing associations will be important aids to the ultimate solution of the problem . It may well be , however , that additional measures will be needed to supplement their efforts . I believe all will agree that such measures should not conflict with the best interests of the cooperatives , but rather assist and strengthen them . In working out this problem to any sound conclusion it is necessary to avoid putting the Government into the business of production or marketing or attempting to enact legislation for the purpose of price fixing . The farmer does not favor any attempted remedies that partake of these elements . He has a sincere and candid desire for assistance . If matched by an equally sincere and candid consideration of the different remedies proposed a sound measure of relief ought to result . It is unfortunate that no general agreement has been reached by the various agricultural interests upon any of the proposed remedies . Out of the discussion of various proposals which can be had before the Committees of Agriculture some measure ought to be perfected which would be generally satisfactory . Due to the emergency arising from a heavy tropical storm in southern Florida , I authorized the Secretary of Agriculture to use certain funds in anticipation of legislation to enable the farmers in that region to plant their crops . The department will present a bill ratifying the loans which were made for this purpose . Federal legislation has been adopted authorizing the cooperation of the Government with States and private owners in the protection of forest lands from fire . This preventive measure is of such great importance that I have recommended for it an increased appropriation . Another preventive measure of great economic and sanitary importance is the eradication of tuberculosis in cattle . Active work is now in progress in one fourth of the counties of the United States to secure this result . Over 12 , 000 , 000 cattle have been under treatment , and the average degree of infection has fallen from 4 . 9 per cent to 2 . 8 per cent . he Federal Government is making substantial expenditures for this purpose . Serious damage is threatened to the corn crop by the European corn borer . Since 1917 it has spread from eastern New England westward into Indiana and now covers about 100 , 000 square miles . It is one of the most formidable pests because it spreads rapidly and is exceedingly difficult of control . It has assumed a menace that is of national magnitude and warrants the Federal Government in extending its cooperation to the State and local agencies which are attempting to prevent its further spread and secure its eradication . The whole question of agriculture needs most careful consideration . In the past few years the Government has given this subject more attention than any other and has held more consultations in relation to it than on any other subject . While the Government is not to be blamed for failure to perform the impossible , the agricultural regions are entitled to know that they have its constant solicitude and sympathy . Many of the farmers are burdened with debts and taxes which they are unable to carry . We are expending in this country many millions of dollars each year to increase farm production . We ought now to put more emphasis on the question of farm marketing . If a sound solution of a permanent nature can be found for this problem , the Congress ought not to hesitate to adopt it . DEVELOPMENT OF WATER RESOURCES In previous messages I have referred to the national importance of the proper development of our water resources . The great projects of extension of the Mississippi system , the protection an development of the lower Colorado River , are before Congress , and I have previously commented upon them . I favor the necessary legislation to expedite these projects . Engineering studies are being made for connecting the Great Lakes with the North Atlantic either through an all American canal or by way of the Lawrence River . These reports will undoubtedly be before the Congress during its present session . It is unnecessary to dwell upon the great importance of such a waterway not only to our mid continental basin but to the commerce and development of practically the whole Nation . Our river and harbor improvement should be continued in accordance with the present policy . Expenditure of this character is compatible with economy it is in the nature of capital investment . Work should proceed on the basic trunk lines if this work is to be a success . If the country will be content to be moderate and patient and permit improvements to be made where they will do the greatest general good , rather than insisting on expenditures at this time on secondary projects , our internal Waterways can be made a success . If proposes legislation results in a gross manifestation of local jealousies and selfishness , this program can not be carried out . Ultimately we can take care of extensions , but our first effort should be confined to the main arteries . Our inland commerce has been put to great inconvenience and expense by reason of the lowering of the water level of the Great Lakes . This is an international problem on which competent engineers are making reports . Out of their study it is expected that a feasible method will be developed for raising the level to provide relief for our commerce and supply water for drainage . Whenever a practical plan is presented it ought to be speedily adopted . RECLAMATION It is increasingly evident that the Federal Government must in the future take a leading part in the impounding of water for conservation with incidental power for the development of the irrigable lands of the and region . The unused waters of the West are found mainly in large rivers . Works to store and distribute these have such magnitude and cost that they are not attractive to private enterprise . Water is the irreplaceable natural resource . Its precipitation can not be increased . Its storage on the higher reaches of streams , to meet growing needs , to be used repeatedly as it flows toward the seas , is a practical and prudent business policy . The United States promises to follow the course of older irrigation countries , where recent important irrigation developments have been carried out as national undertakings . It is gratifying , therefore , that conditions on Federal reclamation projects have become satisfactory . The gross value of crop , , grown with water from project works increased from 110 , 000 , 000 in 1924 to 131 , 000 , 000 in 1925 . The adjustments made last year by Congress relieved irrigators from paying construction costs on unprofitable land , and by so doing inspired new hope and confidence in ability to meet the payments required . Construction payments by water users last year were the largest in the history of the bureau . The anticipated reclamation fund will be fully absorbed for a number of years in the completion of old projects and the construction of projects inaugurated in the past three years . We should , however , continue to investigate and study the possibilities of a carefully planned development of promising projects , logically of governmental concern because of their physical magnitude , immense cost , and the interstate and international problems involved . Only in this way may we be fully prepared to meet intelligently the needs of our fast growing population in the years to come . TRANSPORTATION It would be difficult to conceive of any modern activity which contributes more to the necessities and conveniences of life than transportation . Without it our present agricultural production and practically all of our commerce would be completely prostrated . One of the large contributing causes to the present highly satisfactory state of our economic condition is the prompt and dependable service , surpassing all our previous records , rendered by the railroads . This power has been fostered by the spirit of cooperation between Federal and State regulatory commissions . To render this service more efficient and effective and to promote a more scientific regulation , the process of valuing railroad properties should be simplified and the primary valuations should be completed as rapidly as possible . The problem of rate reduction would be much simplified by a process of railroad consolidations . This principle has already been adopted as Federal law . Experience has shown that a more effective method must be provided . Studies have already been made and legislation introduced seeking to promote this end . It would be of great advantage if it could be taken up at once and speedily enacted . The railroad systems of the country and the convenience of all the people are waiting on this important decision . MERCHANT MARINE It is axiomatic that no agricultural and industrial country can get the full benefit of its own advantages without a merchant marine . We have been proceeding under the act of Congress that contemplates the establishment of trade routes to be ultimately transferred to private ownership and operation . Due to temporary conditions abroad and at home we have a large demand just now for certain types of freight vessels . Some suggestion has been made for new construction . I do not feel that we are yet warranted in entering , that field . Such ships as we might build could not be sold after they are launched for anywhere near what they would cost . We have expended over 250 , 000 , 000 out of the public Treasury in recent years to make up the losses of operation , not counting the depreciation or any cost whatever of our capital investment . The great need of our merchant marine is not for more ships but for more freight . Our merchants are altogether too indifferent about using American ships for the transportation of goods which they send abroad or bring home . Some of our vessels necessarily need repairs , which should be made . I do not believe that the operation of our fleet is as economical and efficient as it could be made if placed under a single responsible head , leaving the Shipping Board free to deal with general matters of policy and regulation . RADIO LEGISLATION The Department of Commerce has for some years urgently presented the necessity for further legislation in order to protect radio listeners from interference between broadcasting stations and to carry out other regulatory functions . Both branches of Congress at the last session passed enactments intended to effect such regulation , but the two bills yet remain to be brought into agreement and final passage . Due to decisions of the courts , the authority of the department under the law of 1912 has broken down many more stations have been operating than can be accommodated within the limited number of wave lengths available further stations are in course of construction many stations have departed from the scheme of allocation set down by the department , and the whole service of this most important public function has drifted into such chaos as seems likely , if not remedied , to destroy its great value . I most urgently recommend that this legislation should be speedily enacted . I do not believe it is desirable to set tip further independent agencies in the Government . Rather I believe it advisable to entrust the important functions of deciding who shall exercise the privilege of radio transmission and under what conditions , the assigning of wave lengths and determination of power , to a board to be assembled whenever action on such questions becomes necessary . There should be right of appeal to the courts from the decisions of such board . The administration of the decisions of the board and the other features of regulation and promotion of radio in the public interest , together with scientific research , should remain in the Department of Commerce . Such an arrangement makes for more expert , more efficient , and more economical administration that an independent agency or board , whose duties , after initial stages , require but little attention , in which administrative functions are confused with semijudicial functions and from which of necessity there must be greatly increased personnel and expenditure . THE WAGE EARNER The great body of our people are made up of wage earners . Several hundred thousands of them are on the pay rolls of the United States Government . Their condition very largely is fixed by legislation . We have recently provided increases in compensation under a method of reclassification and given them the advantage of a liberal retirement system as a support for their declining years . Most of them are under the merit system , which is a guaranty oftheir intelligence , and the efficiency of their service is a demonstration of their loyalty . The Federal Government should continue to set a good example for all other employers . In the industries the condition of the wage earner has steadily improved . The 12 hour day is almost entirely unknown . Skilled labor is well compensated . But there are unfortunately a multitude of workers who have not yet come to share in the general prosperity of the Nation . Both the public authorities and private enterprise should be solicitous to advance the welfare of this class . The Federal Government has been seeking to secure this end through a protective tariff , through restrictive immigration , through requiring safety devices for the prevention of accidents , through the granting of workman s compensation , through civilian vocational rehabilitation and education , through employment information bureaus , and through such humanitarian relief as was provided in the maternity and infancy legislation . It is a satisfaction to report that a more general condition of contentment exists among wage earners and the country is more free from labor disputes than it has been for years . While restrictive immigration has been adopted in part for the benefit of the wage earner , and in its entirety for the benefit of the country , it ought not to cause a needless separation of families and dependents from their natural source of support contrary to the dictates of humanity . BITUMINOUS COAL No progress appears to have been made within large areas of the bituminous coal industry toward creation of voluntary machinery by which greater assurance can be given to the public of peaceful adjustment of wage difficulties such as has been accomplished in the anthracite industry . This bituminous industry is one of primary necessity and bears a great responsibility to the Nation for continuity of supplies . As the wage agreements in the unionized section of the industry expire on April 1 next , and as conflicts may result which may imperil public interest , and have for many years often called for action of the Executive in protection of the public , I again recommend the passage of such legislation as will assist the Executive in dealing with such emergencies through a special temporary board of conciliation and mediation and through administrative agencies for the purpose of distribution of coal and protection of the consumers of coal from profiteering . At present the Executive is not only without authority to act but is actually prohibited by law from making any expenditure to meet the emergency of a coal famine . JUDICIARY The Federal courts hold a high position in the administration of justice in the world . While individual judicial officers have sometimes been subjected to just criticism , the courts as a whole have maintained an exceedingly high standard . The Congress may well consider the question of supplying fair salaries and conferring upon the Supreme Court the same rule making power on the law side of the district courts that they have always possessed on the equity side . A bill is also pending providing for retirement after a certain number of years of service , although they have not been consecutive , which should have your favorable consideration . These faithful servants of the Government are about the last that remain to be provided for in the postwar readjustments . BANKING There has been pending in Congress for nearly three years banking legislation to clarify the national bank act and reasonably to increase the powers of the national banks . I believe that within the limitation of sound banking principles Congress should now and for the future place the national banks upon a fair equality with their competitors , the State banks , and I trust that means may be found so that the differences on branch banking legislation between the Senate and the House of Representatives may be settled along sound lines and the legislation promptly enacted . It would be difficult to overestimate the service which the Federal reserve system has already rendered to the country . It is necessary only to recall the chaotic condition of our banking organization at the time the Federal reserve system was put into operation . The old system consisted of a vast number of independent banking units , with scattered bank reserves which never could be mobilized in times of greatest need . In spite of vast banking resources , there was no coordination of reserves or any credit elasticity . As a consequence , a strain was felt even during crop moving periods and when it was necessary to meet other seasonal and regularly recurring needs . The Federal reserve system is not a panacea for all economic or financial ills . It can not prevent depression in certain industries which are experiencing overexpansion of production or contraction of their markets . Its business is to furnish adequate credit and currency facilities . This it has succeeded in doing , both during the war and in the more difficult period of deflation and readjustment which followed . It enables us to look to the future with confidence and to make plans far ahead , based on the belief that the Federal reserve system will exercise a steadying influence on credit conditions and thereby prevent tiny sudden or severe reactions from the period of prosperity which we are now enjoying . In order that these plans may go forward , action should be taken at the present session on the question of renewing the banks charters and thereby insuring a continuation of the policies and present usefulness of the Federal reserve system . FEDERAL REGULATION I am in favor of reducing , rather than expanding , Government bureaus which seek to regulate and control the business activities of the people . Everyone is aware that abuses exist and will exist so long as we are limited by human imperfections . Unfortunately , human nature can not be changed by an act of the legislature . When practically the sole remedy for many evils lies in the necessity of the people looking out for themselves and reforming their own abuses , they will find that they are relying on a false security if the Government assumes to hold out the promise that it is looking out for them and providing reforms for them . This principle is preeminently applicable to the National Government . It is too much assumed that because an abuse exists it is the business of the National Government to provide a remedy . The presumption should be that it is the business of local and State governments . Such national action results in encroaching upon the salutary independence of the States and by undertaking to supersede their natural authority fills the land with bureaus and departments which are undertaking to do what it is impossible for them to accomplish and brings our whole system of government into disrespect and disfavor . We ought to maintain high standards . We ought to punish wrongdoing . Society has not only the privilege but the absolute duty of protecting itself and its individuals . But we can not accomplish this end by adopting a wrong method . Permanent success lies in local , rather than national action . Unless the locality rises to its own requirements , there is an almost irresistible impulse for the National Government to intervene . The States and the Nation should both realize that such action is to be adopted only as a last resort . THE NEGRO The social well being of our country requires our constant effort for the amelioration of race prejudice and the extension to all elements of equal opportunity and equal protection under the laws which are guaranteed by the . Constitution . The Federal Government especially is charged with this obligation in behalf of the colored people of the Nation . Not only their remarkable progress , their devotion and their loyalty , but , our duty to ourselves under our claim that we are an enlightened people requires us to use all our power to protect them from the crime of lynching . Although violence of this kind has very much decreased , while any of it remains we can not justify neglecting to make every effort to eradicate it by law . The education of the colored race under Government encouragement is proceeding successfully and ought to have continuing support . An increasing need exists for properly educated and trained medical skill to be devoted to the service of this race . INSULAR POSSESSIONS This Government holds in sacred trusteeship islands which it has acquired in the East and West Indies . In all of them the people are more prosperous than at any previous time . A system of good roads , education , and general development is in progress . The people are better governed than ever before and generally content . In the Philippine Islands Maj . Gen . Leonard Wood has been Governor General for five years and has administered his office with tact and ability greatly to the success of the Filipino people . These are a proud and sensitive race , who are making such progress with our cooperation that we can view the results of this experiment with great satisfaction . As we are attempting to assist this race toward self government , we should look upon their wishes with great respect , granting their requests immediately when they are right , yet maintaining a frank firmness in refusing when they are wrong . We shall measure their progress in no small part by their acceptance of the terms of the organic law under which the islands are governed and their faithful observance of its provisions . Need exists for clarifying the duties of the auditor and declaring them to be what everyone had supposed they were . We have placed our own expenditures under the supervision of the Comptroller General . It is not likely that the expenditures in the Philippine Islands need less supervision than our own . The Governor General is hampered in his selection of subordinates by the necessity of securing a confirmation , which has oftentimes driven him to the expediency of using Army officers in work for which civilian experts would be much better fitted . Means should be provided for this and such other purposes as he may require out of the revenue which this Government now turns back to the Philippine treasury . In order that these possessions might stiffer no seeming neglect , I have recently sent Col . Carmi A Thompson to the islands to make a survey in cooperation with the Governor General to suggest what might be done to improve conditions . Later , I may make a more extended report including recommendations . The economic development of the islands is very important . They ought not to be turned back to the people until they are both politically fitted for self government and economically independent . Large areas are adaptable to the production of rubber . No one contemplates any time in the future either under the present or a more independent form of government when we should not assume some responsibility for their defense . For their economic advantage , for the employment of their people , and as a contribution to our power of defense which could not be carried on without rubber , I believe this industry should be encouraged . It is especially adapted to the Filipino people themselves , who might cultivate it individually on a small acreage . It could be carried on extensively by American capital in a way to furnish employment at good wages . I am opposed to the promotion of any policy that does not provide for absolute freedom on the part of the wage earners and do not think we should undertake to give power for large holdings of land in the islands against the opposition of the people of the locality . Any development of the islands must be solely with the first object of benefiting the people of the islands . At an early day , these possessions should be taken out from under all military control and administered entirely on the civil side of government . NATIONAL DEFENSE Our policy of national defense is not one of making war , but of insuring peace . The land and sea force of America , both in its domestic and foreign implications , is distinctly a peace force . It is an arm of the police power to guarantee order and the execution of the law at home and security to our citizens abroad . No self respecting nation would neglect to provide an army and navy proportionate to its population , the extent of its territory , and the dignity of the place which it occupies in the world . When it is considered that no navy in the world , with one exception , approaches ours and none surpasses it , that our Regular Army of about 115 , 000 men is the equal of any other like number of troops , that our entire permanent and reserve land and sea force trained and training consists of a personnel of about 610 , 000 , and that our annual appropriations are about 680 , 000 , 000 a year , expended under the direction of an exceedingly competent staff , it can not be said that our country is neglecting its national defense . It is true that a cult of disparagement exists , but that candid examination made by the Congress through its various committees has always reassured the country and demonstrated that it is maintaining the most adequate defensive forces in these present years that it has ever supported in time of peace . This general policy should be kept in effect . Here and there temporary changes may be made in personnel to meet requirements in other directions . Attention should be given to submarines , cruisers , and air forces . Particular points may need strengthening , but as a whole our military power is sufficient . The one weak place in the whole line is our still stupendous war debt . In any modern campaign the dollars are the shock troops . With a depleted treasury in the rear , no army can maintain itself in the field . A country loaded with debt is a country devoid of the first line of defense . Economy is the handmaid of preparedness . If we wish to be able to defend ourselves to the full extent of our power in the future , we shall discharge as soon as possible the financial burden of the last war . Otherwise we would face a crisis with a part of our capital resources already expended . The amount and kind of our military equipment is preeminently a question for the decision of the Congress , after giving due consideration to the advice of military experts and the available public revenue . Nothing is more laudable than the cooperation of the agricultural and industrial resources of the country for the purpose of supplying the needs of national defense . In time of peril the people employed in these interests volunteered in a most self sacrificing way , often at the nominal charge of a dollar a year . But the Army and Navy are not supported for the benefit of supply concerns supply concerns are supported for the benefit of the Army and Navy . The distribution of orders on what is needed from different concerns for the purpose of keeping up equipment and organization is perfectly justified , but any attempt to prevail upon the Government to purchase beyond its needs ought not to be tolerated . It is eminently fair that those who deal with the Government should do so at a reasonable profit . However , public money is expended not that some one may profit by it , but in order to serve a public purpose . While our policy of national defense will proceed in order that we may be independent and self sufficient , I am opposed to engaging in any attempt at competitive armaments . No matter how much or how little some other country may feel constrained to provide , we can well afford to set the example , not of being dictated to by others , but of adopting our own standards . We are strong enough to pursue that method , which will be a most wholesome model for the rest of the world . We are eminently peaceful , but we are by no means weak . While we submit our differences with others , not to the adjudication of force , but of reason , it is not because we are unable to defend our rights . While we are doing our best to eliminate all resort to war for the purpose of settling disputes , we can not but remember that the peace we now enjoy had to be won by the sword and that if the rights of our country are to be defended we can not rely for that purpose upon anyone but ourselves . We can not shirk the responsibility , which is the first requisite of all government , of preserving its own integrity and maintaining the rights of its own citizens . It is only in accordance with these principles that we can establish any lasting foundations for an honorable and permanent peace . It is for these reasons that our country , like any other country , proposes to provide itself with an army and navy supported by a merchant marine . Yet these are not for competition with any other power . For years we have besought nations to disarm . We have recently expressed our willingness at Geneva to enter into treaties for the limitation of all types of warships according to the ratio adopted at the Washington Conference . This offer is still pending . While we are and shall continue to be armed it is not as a menace , but rather a common assurance of tranquility to all the peaceloving people of the world . For us to do any less would be to disregard our obligations , evade our responsibilities , and jeopardize our national honor . VETERANS This country , not only because it is bound by honor but because of the satisfaction derived from it , has always lavished its bounty upon its veterans . For years a service pension has been bestowed upon the Grand Army on reaching a certain age . Like provision has been made for the survivors of the Spanish War . A liberal future compensation has been granted to all the veterans of the World War . But it is in the case of the , disabled and the dependents that the Government exhibits its greatest solicitude . This work is being well administered by the Veterans Bureau . The main unfinished feature is that of hospitalization . This requirement is being rapidly met . Various veteran bodies will present to you recommendations which should have your careful consideration . At the last session we increased our annual expenditure for pensions and relief on account of the veterans of three wars . While I approve of proper relief for all suffering , I do not favor any further extension of our pension system at this time . ALIEN PROPERTY We still have in the possession of the Government the alien property . It has always been the policy of America to hold that private enemy property should not be confiscated in time of war . This principle we have scrupulously observed . As this property is security for the claims of our citizens and our Government , we can not relinquish it without adequate provision for their reimbursement . Legislation for the return of this property , accompanied by suitable provisions for the liquidation of the claims of our citizens and our Treasury , should be adopted . If our Government releases to foreigners the security which it holds for Americans , it must at the same time provide satisfactory safeguards for meeting American claims . PROHIBITION The duly authorized public authorities of this country have made prohibition the law of the land . Acting under the Constitution the Congress and the legislatures of practically all the , States have adopted legislation for its enforcement . Some abuses have arisen which require reform . Under the law the National Government has entrusted to the Treasury Department the especial duty of regulation and enforcement . Such supplementary legislation as it requires to meet existing conditions should be carefully and speedily enacted . Failure to support the Constitution and observe the law ought not to be tolerated by public opinion . Especially those in public places , who have taken their oath to support the Constitution , ought to be most scrupulous in its observance . Officers of the Department of Justice throughout the country should be vigilant in enforcing the law , but local authorities , which had always been mainly responsible for the enforcement of law in relation to intoxicating liquor , ought not to seek evasion by attempting to shift the burden wholly upon the Federal agencies . Under the Constitution the States are jointly charged with the Nation in providing for the enforcement of the prohibition amendment . Some people do not like the amendment , some do not like other parts of the Constitution , some do not like any of it . Those who entertain such sentiments have a perfect right to seek through legal methods for a change . But for any of our inhabitants to observe such parts of the Constitution as they like , while disregarding others , is a doctrine that would break down all protection of life and property and destroy the American system of ordered liberty . FOREIGN RELATIONS The foreign policy of this Government is well known . It is one of peace based on that mutual respect that arises from mutual regard for international rights arid the discharge of international obligations . It is our purpose to promote understanding and good will between ourselves and all other people . The American people are altogether lacking in an appreciation of the tremendous good fortune that surrounds their international position . We have no traditional enemies . We are not embarrassed over any disputed territory . We have no possessions that are coveted by others they have none that are coveted by us . Our borders are unfortified . We fear no one no one fears us . All the world knows that the whole extent of our influence is against war and in favor of peace , against the use of force and in favor of negotiation , arbitration , and adjudication as a method of adjusting international differences . We look with disfavor upon all aggressive warfare . We are strong enough so that no one can charge us with weakness if we are slow to anger . Our place is sufficiently established so that we need not be sensitive over trifles . Our resources , are large enough so that we can afford to be generous . At the same time we are a nation among nations and recognize a responsibility not only to ourselves , but in the interests of a stable and enlightened civilization , to protect and defend the international rights of our Government and our citizens . It is because of our historical detachment and the generations of comparative indifference toward it by other nations that our public is inclined to consider altogether too seriously the reports that we are criticized abroad . We never had a larger foreign trade than at the present time . Our good offices were never more sought and the necessity for our assistance and cooperation was never more universally declared in any time of peace . We know that the sentiments which we entertain toward all other nations are those of the most sincere friendship and good will and of all unbounded desire to help , which we are perfectly willing to have judged by their fruits . In our efforts to adjust our international obligations we have met with a response which , when everything is considered , I believe history will record as a most remarkable and gratifying demonstration of the sanctity with which civilized nations undertake to discharge their mutual obligations . Debt settlements have been negotiated with practically all of those who owed us and all finally adjusted but two , which are , in process of ratification . When we consider the real sacrifice that will be necessary on the part of other nations , considering all their circumstances , to meet their agreed payments , we ought to hold them in increased admiration and respect . It is true that we have extended to them very generous treatment , but it is also true that they have agreed to repay its all that we loaned to them and some interest . A special conference on the Chinese customs tariff provided for by the treaty between the nine powers relating to the Chinese customs tariff signed at Washington on February 6 , 1922 , was called by the Chinese Government to meet at Peking , on October 26 , 1925 . We participated in this conference through fully empowered delegates and , with good will , endeavored to cooperate with the other participating powers with a view to putting into effect promises made to China at the Washington conference , and considering any reasonable proposal that might be made by the Chinese Government for the revision of the treaties on the subject of China s tariff . With these aims in view the American delegation at the outset of the conference proposed to put into effect the surtaxes provided for by the Washington treaty and to proceed immediately to the negotiation of a treaty , which , among other things , was to make provision for the abolition of taxes collected on goods in transit , remove the tariff restrictions in existing treaties , and put into effect the national tariff law of China . Early in April of the present year the central Chinese Government was ousted from power by opposing warring factions . It became impossible under the circumstances to continue the negotiations . Finally , on July 3 , the delegates of the foreign powers , including those of the United States , issued a statement expressing their unanimous and earnest desire to proceed with the work of the conference at the earliest possible moment when the delegates of the Chinese Government are in a position to resume discussions with the foreign delegates of the problems before the conference . We are prepared to resume the negotiations thus interrupted whenever a Government representing the Chinese people and acting on their behalf presents itself . The fact that constant warfare between contending Chinese factions has rendered it impossible to bring these negotiations to a successful conclusion is a matter of deep regret . Throughout these conflicts we have maintained a position of the most careful neutrality . Our naval vessels in Asiatic waters , pursuant to treaty rights , have been used only for the protection of American citizens . Silas Strawn , , was sent to China as American commissioner to cooperate with commissioners of the other powers in the establishment of a commission to inquire into the present practice of extraterritorial jurisdiction in China , with a view to reporting to the Governments of the several powers their findings of fact in regard to these matters . The commission commenced its work in January , 1926 , and agreed upon a joint report which was signed on September 16 , 1926 . The commission s report has been received and is being studied with a view to determining our future policy in regard to the question of extraterritorial privileges under treaties between the United States and China . The Preparatory Commission for the Disarmament Conference met at Geneva on May 18 and its work has been proceeding almost continuously since that date . It would be premature to attempt to form a judgment as to the progress that has been made . The commission has had before it a comprehensive list of questions touching upon all aspects of the question of the limitation of armament . In the commission s discussions many differences of opinion have developed . However , I am hopeful that at least some measure of agreement will be reached as the discussions continue . The American representation on the commission has consistently tried to be helpful , and has kept before it the practical objective to which the commission is working , namely , actual agreements for the limitation of armaments . Our representatives will continue their work in that direction . One of the most encouraging features of the commission s work thus far has been the agreement in principle among the naval experts of a majority of the powers parties to the Washington treaty limiting naval armament upon methods and standards for the comparison and further limitation of naval armament . It is needless to say that at the proper time I shall be prepared to proceed along practical lines to the conclusion of agreements carrying further the work begun at the Washington Conference in 1921 . DEPARTMENT REPORTS Many important subjects which it is impossible even to mention in the short space of an annual message you will find fully discussed in the departmental reports . A failure to include them here is not to be taken as indicating any lack of interest , but only a disinclination to state inadequately what has been much better done in other documents . THE CAPITAL CITY We are embarking on an ambitious building program for the city of Washington . The Memorial Bridge is under way with all that it holds for use and beauty . New buildings are soon contemplated . This program should represent the best that exists in the art and science of architecture . Into these structures which must be considered as of a permanent nature ought to go the aspirations of the Nation , its ideals expressed in forms of beauty . If our country wishes to compete with others , let it not be in the support of armaments but in the making of a beautiful capital city . Let it express the soul of America . Whenever an American is at the seat of his Government , however traveled and cultured he may be , he ought to find a city of stately proportion , symmetrically laid out and adorned with the best that there is in architecture , which would arouse his imagination and stir his patriotic pride . In the coming years Washington should be not only the art center of our own country but the art center of the world . Around it should center all that is best in science , in learning , in letters , and in art . These are the results that justify the creation of those national resources with which we have been favored . AMERICAN IDEALS America is not and must not be a country without ideals . They are useless if they are only visionary they are only valuable if they are practical . A nation can not dwell constantly on the mountain tops . It has to be replenished and sustained through the ceaseless toil of the less inspiring valleys . But its face ought always to be turned upward , its vision ought always to be fixed on high . We need ideals that can be followed in daily life , that can be translated into terms of the home . We can not expect to be relieved from toil , but we do expect to divest it of degrading conditions . Work is honorable it is entitled to an honorable recompense . We must strive mightily , but having striven there is a defect in our political and social system if we are not in general rewarded with success . To relieve the land of the burdens that came from the war , to release to the individual more of the fruits of his own industry , to increase his earning capacity and decrease his hours of labor , to enlarge the circle of his vision through good roads and better transportation , to lace before him the opportunity for education both in science and in art , to leave him free to receive the inspiration of religion , all these are ideals which deliver him from the servitude of the body and exalt him to the service of the soul . Through this emancipation from the things that are material , we broaden our dominion over the things that are spiritual .<speech_sep>We have come here to dedicate a cornerstone that was laid by the hand of the Almighty . On this towering wall of Rushmore , in the heart of the Black Hills , is to be inscribed a memorial which will represent some of the outstanding features of four of our Presidents , laid on by the hand of a great artist in sculpture . This memorial will crown the height of land between the Rocky Mountains and the Atlantic Seaboard , where coming generations may view it for all time . It is but natural that such a design should begin with George Washington , for with him begins that which is truly characteristic of America . He represents our independence , our Constitution , our liberty . He formed the highest aspirations that were entertained by any people into the permanent institutions of our Government . He stands as the foremost disciple of ordered liberty , a statesman with an inspired vision who is not outranked by any mortal greatness . Next to him will come Thomas Jefferson , whose wisdom insured that the Government which Washington had formed should be entrusted to the administration of the people . He emphasized the element of self government which had been enshrined in American institutions in such a way as to demonstrate that it was practical and would be permanent . In him was likewise embodied the spirit of expansion . Recognizing the destiny of this Country , he added to its territory . By removing the possibility of any powerful opposition from a neighboring state , he gave new guaranties to the rule of the people . After our country had been established , enlarged from sea to sea , and was dedicated to popular government , the next great task was to demonstrate the permanency of our Union and to extend the principle of freedom to all inhabitants of our land . The master of this supreme accomplishment was Abraham Lincoln . Above all other national figures , he holds the love of his fellow countrymen . The work which Washington and Jefferson began , he extended to its logical conclusions . That the principles for which these three men stood might be still more firmly established destiny raised up Theodore Roosevelt . To political freedom he strove to add economic freedom . By building the Panama Canal he brought into closer relationship the east and the west and realized the vision that inspired Columbus in his search for a new passage to the Orient . The union of these four Presidents carved on the face of the everlasting hills of South Dakota will constitute a distinctly national monument . It will be decidedly American in conception , in its magnitude , in its meaning and altogether worthy of our Country . No one can look upon it understandingly without realizing that it is a picture of hope fulfilled . Its location will be significant . Here in the heart of the continent , on the side of a mountain which probably no white man had ever beheld in the days of Washington , in territory which was acquired by the action of Jefferson , which remained an unbroken wilderness beyond the days of Lincoln , which was especially beloved by Roosevelt , the people of the future will see history and art combined to portray the spirit of patriotism . They will know that the figure of these Presidents has been placed here because by following the truth they built for eternity . The fundamental principles which they represented have been wrought into the very being of our Country . They are steadfast as these ancient hills . Other people have marveled at the growth and strength of America . They have wondered how a few weak and discordant colonies were able to win their independence from one of the greatest powers of the world . They have been amazed at our genius for self government . They have been unable to comprehend how the shock of a great Civil War did not destroy our Union . They do not understand the economic progress of our people . It is true that we have had the advantage of great natural resources , but those have not been exclusively ours . Others have been equally fortunate in that direction . The progress of America has been due to the spirit of the people . It is in no small degree due to that spirit that we have been able to produce such great leaders . If coming generations are to maintain a like spirit , it will be because they continue to support the principles which these men represented . It is for that purpose that we erect memorials . We can not hold our admiration for the historic figures which we shall see here without growing stronger in our determination to perpetuate the institutions which their lives revealed and established . The fact that this enterprise is being begun in one of our new states not yet great in population , not largely developed in its resources , discloses that the old American spirit still goes where our people go , still dominates their lives , still inspires them to deeds of devotion and sacrifice . It is but another illustration of the determination of our people to use their material resources to minister to their spiritual life . This memorial will be another national shrine to which future generations will repair to declare their continuing allegiance to independence , to self government , to freedom and to economic justice . It is an inspiring phase of American life that men are willing to devote their energies to the erection of a memorial of this nature . Money spent for such a purpose is certain of adequate returns in the nature of increased public welfare . The people of South Dakota are taking the lead in the preparation of this memorial out of their meager resources , because the American spirit is strong among them . Their effort and courage entitles them to the sympathy and support of private beneficence and the national government . They realize fully that they have no means of succeeding in the development of their state except a strong reliance upon American institutions . They do not fail to appreciate their value . There is no power that can stay the progress of such a people . They are predestined to success . Our Country is fortunate in having the advantage of their citizenship . They have been pioneers in the development of their State . They will continue to be pioneers in the defense and development of American institutions .<speech_sep>Fellow Countrymen We meet to celebrate the birthday of America . That coming of a new life always excites our interest . Although we know in the case of the individual that it has been an infinite repetition reaching back beyond our vision , that only makes it more wonderful . But how our interest and wonder increase when we behold the miracle of the birth of a new nation . It is to pay our tribute of reverence and respect to those who participated in such a mighty event that we annually observe the 4th day of July . Whatever may have been the impression created by the news which went out from this city on that summer day in 1776 , there can be no doubt as to the estimate which is now placed upon it . At the end of 150 years the four corners of the earth unite in coming to Philadelphia as to a holy shrine in grateful acknowledgment of a service so great , which a few inspired men here rendered to humanity , that it is still the preeminent support of free government throughout the world . Although a century and a half measured in comparison with the length of human experience is but a short time , yet measured in the life of governments and nations it ranks as a very respectable period . Certainly enough time has elapsed to demonstrate with a great real of thoroughness the value of our institutions and their dependability as rules for the regulation of human conduct and the advancement of civilization . They have been in existence long enough to become very well seasoned . They have met , and met successfully , the test of experience It is not so much , then , for the purpose of undertaking to proclaim new theories and principles that this annual celebration is maintained , but rather to reaffirm and reestablish those old theories and principles which time and the unerring logic of events have demonstrated to be sound . Amid all the clash of conflicting interests , amid all the welter of partisan politics , every American can turn for solace and consolation to the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution of the United States with the assurance and confidence that those two great charters of freedom and justice remain firm and unshaken . Whatever perils appear , whatever dangers threaten , the Nation remains secure in the knowledge that the ultimate application of the law of the land will provide an adequate defense and protection . It is little wonder that people at home and abroad consider Independence Hall as hallowed ground and revere the Liberty Bell as a sacred relic . That pile of bricks and mortar , that mass of metal , might appear to the uninstructed as only the outgrown meeting place and the shattered bell of a former time , useless now because of more modern conveniences , but to those who know they have become consecrated by the use which men have made of them . They have long been identified with a great cause . They are the framework of a spiritual event . The world looks upon them , because of their associations of one hundred and fifty years ago , as it looks upon the Holy Land because of what took place there nineteen hundred years ago . Through use for a righteous purpose they have become sanctified . It is not here necessary to examine in detail the causes which led to the American Revolution . In their immediate occasion they were largely economic . The colonists objected to the navigation laws which interfered with their trade , they denied the power of Parliament to impose taxes which they were obliged to pay , and they therefore resisted the royal governors and the royal forces which were sent to secure obedience to these laws . But the conviction is inescapable that a new civilization had come , a new spirit had arisen on this side of the Atlantic more advanced and more developed in its regard for the rights of the individual than that which characterized the Old World . Life in a new and open country had aspirations which could not be realized in any subordinate position . A separate establishment was ultimately inevitable . It had been decreed by the very laws of human nature . Man everywhere has an unconquerable desire to be the master of his own destiny . We are obliged to conclude that the Declaration of Independence represented the movement of a people . It was not , of course , a movement from the top . Revolutions do not come from that direction . It was not without the support of many of the most respectable people in the Colonies , who were entitled to all the consideration that is given to breeding , education , and possessions . It had the support of another element of great significance and importance to which I shall later refer . But the preponderance of all those who occupied a position which took on the aspect of aristocracy did not approve of the Revolution and held toward it an attitude either of neutrality or open hostility . It was in no sense a rising of the oppressed and downtrodden . It brought no scum to the surface , for the reason that colonial society had developed no scum . The great body of the people were accustomed to privations , but they were free from depravity . If they had poverty , it was not of the hopeless kind that afflicts great cities , but the inspiring kind that marks the spirit of the pioneer . The American Revolution represented the informed and mature convictions of a great mass of independent , liberty loving , God fearing people who knew their rights , and possessed the courage to dare to maintain them . The Continental Congress was not only composed of great men , but it represented a great people . While its Members did not fail to exercise a remarkable leadership , they were equally observant of their representative capacity . They were industrious in encouraging their constituents to instruct them to support independence . But until such instructions were given they were inclined to withhold action . While North Carolina has the honor of first authorizing its delegates to concur with other Colonies in declaring independence , it was quickly followed by South Carolina and Georgia , which also gave general instructions broad enough to include such action . But the first instructions which unconditionally directed its delegates to declare for independence came from the great Commonwealth of Virginia . These were immediately followed by Rhode Island and Massachusetts , while the other Colonies , with the exception of New York , soon adopted a like course . This obedience of the delegates to the wishes of their constituents , which in some cases caused them to modify their previous positions , is a matter of great significance . It reveals an orderly process of government in the first place but more than that , it demonstrates that the Declaration of Independence was the result of the seasoned and deliberate thought of the dominant portion of the people of the Colonies . Adopted after long discussion and as the result of the duly authorized expression of the preponderance of public opinion , it did not partake of dark intrigue or hidden conspiracy . It was well advised . It had about it nothing of the lawless and disordered nature of a riotous insurrection . It was maintained on a plane which rises above the ordinary conception of rebellion . It was in no sense a radical movement but took on the dignity of a resistance to illegal usurpations . It was conservative and represented the action of the colonists to maintain their constitutional rights which from time immemorial had been guaranteed to them under the law of the land . When we come to examine the action of the Continental Congress in adopting the Declaration of Independence in the light of what was set out in that great document and in the light of succeeding events , we can not escape the conclusion that it had a much broader and deeper significance than a mere secession if territory and the establishment of a new nation . Events of that nature have been taking place since the dawn of history . One empire after another has arisen , only to crumble away as its constituent parts separated from each other and set up independent governments of their own . Such actions long ago became commonplace . They have occurred too often to hold the attention of the world and command the administration and reverence of humanity . There is something beyond the establishment of a new nation , great as that event would be , in the Declaration of Independence which has ever since caused it to be regarded as one of the great charters that not only was to liberate America but was everywhere to ennoble humanity . It was not because it was proposed to establish a new nation , but because it was proposed to establish a nation on new principles , that July 4 , 1776 , has come to be regarded as one of the greatest days in history . Great ideas do not burst upon the world unannounced . They are reached by a gradual development over a length of time usually proportionate to their importance . This is especially true of the principles laid down in the Declaration of Independence . Three very definite propositions were set out in its preamble regarding the nature of mankind and therefore of government . These were the doctrine that all men are created equal , that they are endowed with certain inalienable rights , and that therefore the source of the just powers of government must be derived from the consent of the governed . If no one is to be accounted as born into a superior station , if there is to be no ruling class , and if all possess rights which can neither be bartered away nor taken from them by any earthly power , it follows as a matter of course that the practical authority of the Government has to rest on the consent of the governed . While these principles were not altogether new in political action , and were very far from new in political speculation , they had never been assembled before and declared in such a combination . But remarkable as this may be , it is not the chief distinction of the Declaration of Independence . The importance of political speculation is not to be underestimated , as I shall presently disclose . Until the idea is developed and the plan made there can be no action . It was the fact that our Declaration of Independence containing these immortal truths was the political action of a duly authorized and constituted representative public body in its sovereign capacity , supported by the force of general opinion and by the armies of Washington already in the field , which makes it the most important civil document in the world . It was not only the principles declared , but the fact that therewith a new nation was born which was to be founded upon those principles and which from that time forth in its development has actually maintained those principles , that makes this pronouncement an incomparable event in the history of government . It was an assertion that a people had arisen determined to make every necessary sacrifice for the support of these truths and by their practical application bring the War of Independence to a successful conclusion and adopt the Constitution of the United States with all that it has meant to civilization . The idea that the people have a right to choose their own rulers was not new in political history . It was the foundation of every popular attempt to depose an undesirable king . This right was set out with a good deal of detail by the Dutch when as early as July 26 , 1581 , they declared their independence of Philip of Spain . In their long struggle with the Stuarts the British people asserted the same principles , which finally culminated in the Bill of Rights deposing the last of that house and placing William and Mary on the throne . In each of these cases sovereignty through divine right was displaced by sovereignty through the consent of the people . Running through the same documents , though expressed in different terms , is the clear inference of inalienable rights . But we should search these charters in vain for an assertion of the doctrine of equality . This principle had not before appeared as an official political declaration of any nation . It was profoundly revolutionary . It is one of the corner stones of American institutions . But if these truths to which the Declaration refers have not before been adopted in their combined entirely by national authority , it is a fact that they had been long pondered and often expressed in political speculation . It is generally assumed that French thought had some effect upon our public mind during Revolutionary days . This may have been true . But the principles of our Declaration had been under discussion in the Colonies for nearly two generations before the advent of the French political philosophy that characterized the middle of the eighteenth century . In fact , they come from an earlier date . A very positive echo of what the Dutch had done in 1581 , and what the English were preparing to do , appears in the assertion of the Thomas Hooker , of Connecticut , as early as 1638 , when he said in a sermon before the General Court that The foundation of authority is laid in the free consent of the people . The choice of public magistrates belongs to the people by God s own allowance . This doctrine found wide acceptance among the nonconformist clergy who later made up the Congregational Church . The great apostle of this movement was the John Wise , of Massachusetts . He was one of the leaders of the revolt against the royal governor Andross in 1687 , for which he suffered imprisonment . He was a liberal in ecclesiastical controversies . He appears to have been familiar with the writings of the political scientist , Samuel Pufendorf , who was born in Saxony in 1632 . Wise published a treatise entitled The Church s Quarrel Espoused in 1710 , which was amplified in another publication in 1717 . In it he dealt with the principles of civil government . His works were reprinted in 1772 and have been declared to have been nothing less than a textbook of liberty for our Revolutionary fathers . While the written word was the foundation , it is apparent that the spoken word was the vehicle for convincing the people . This came with great force and wide range from the successors of Hooker and Wise . It was carried on with a missionary spirit which did not fail to reach the Scotch Irish of North Carolina , showing its influence by significantly making that Colony the first to give instructions to its delegates looking to independence . This preaching reached the neighborhood of Thomas Jefferson , who acknowledged that his best ideas of democracy had been secured at church meetings . That these ideas were prevalent in Virginia is further revealed by the Declaration of Rights , which was prepared by George Mason and presented to the general assembly on May 27 , 1776 . This document asserted popular sovereignty and inherent natural rights , but confined the doctrine of equality to the assertion that All men are created equally free and independent . It can scarcely be imagined that Jefferson was unacquainted with what had been done in his own Commonwealth of Virginia when he took up the task of drafting the Declaration of Independence . But these thoughts can very largely be traced back to what John Wise was writing in 1710 . He said , Every man must be acknowledged equal to very man . Again , The end of all good government is to cultivate humanity and promote the happiness of all and the good of every man in all his rights , his life , liberty , estate , honor , and so forth . And again , For as they have a power every man in his natural state , so upon combination they can and do bequeath this power to others and settle it according as their united discretion shall determine . And still again , Democracy is Christ s government in church and state . Here was the doctrine of equality , popular sovereignty , and the substance of the theory of inalienable rights clearly asserted by Wise at the opening of the eighteenth century , just as we have the principle of the consent of the governed state by Hooker as early as 1638 . When we take all these circumstances into consideration , it is but natural that the first paragraph of the Declaration of Independence should open with a reference to Nature s God and should close in the final paragraphs with an appeal to the Supreme Judge of the world and an assertion of a firm reliance on Divine Providence . Coming from these sources , having as it did this background , it is no wonder that Samuel Adams could say The people seem to recognize this resolution as though it were a decree promulgated from heaven . No one can examine this record and escape the conclusion that in the great outline of its principles the Declaration was the result of the religious teachings of the preceding period . The profound philosophy which Jonathan Edwards applied to theology , the popular preaching of George Whitefield , had aroused the thought and stirred the people of the Colonies in preparation for this great event . No doubt the speculations which had been going on in England , and especially on the Continent , lent their influence to the general sentiment of the times . Of course , the world is always influenced by all the experience and all the thought of the past . But when we come to a contemplation of the immediate conception of the principles of human relationship which went into the Declaration of Independence we are not required to extend our search beyond our own shores . They are found in the texts , the sermons , and the writings of the early colonial clergy who were earnestly undertaking to instruct their congregations in the great mystery of how to live . They preached equality because they believed in the fatherhood of God and the brotherhood of man . They justified freedom by the text that we are all created in the divine image , all partakers of the divine spirit . Placing every man on a plane where he acknowledged no superiors , where no one possessed any right to rule over him , he must inevitably choose his own rulers through a system of self government . This was their theory of democracy . In those days such doctrines would scarcely have been permitted to flourish and spread in any other country . This was the purpose which the fathers cherished . In order that they might have freedom to express these thoughts and opportunity to put them into action , whole congregations with their pastors had migrated to the Colonies . These great truths were in the air that our people breathed . Whatever else we may say of it , the Declaration of Independence was profoundly American . If this apprehension of the facts be correct , and the documentary evidence would appear to verify it , then certain conclusions are bound to follow . A spring will cease to flow if its source be dried up a tree will wither if it roots be destroyed . In its main features the Declaration of Independence is a great spiritual document . It is a declaration not of material but of spiritual conceptions . Equality , liberty , popular sovereignty , the rights of man these are not elements which we can see and touch . They are ideals . They have their source and their roots in the religious convictions . They belong to the unseen world . Unless the faith of the American people in these religious convictions is to endure , the principles of our Declaration will perish . We can not continue to enjoy the result if we neglect and abandon the cause . We are too prone to overlook another conclusion . Governments do not make ideals , but ideals make governments . This is both historically and logically true . Of course the government can help to sustain ideals and can create institutions through which they can be the better observed , but their source by their very nature is in the people . The people have to bear their own responsibilities . There is no method by which that burden can be shifted to the government . It is not the enactment , but the observance of laws , that creates the character of a nation . About the Declaration there is a finality that is exceedingly restful . It is often asserted that the world has made a great deal of progress since 1776 , that we have had new thoughts and new experiences which have given us a great advance over the people of that day , and that we may therefore very well discard their conclusions for something more modern . But that reasoning can not be applied to this great charter . If all men are created equal , that is final . If they are endowed with inalienable rights , that is final . If governments derive their just powers from the consent of the governed , that is final . No advance , no progress can be made beyond these propositions . If anyone wishes to deny their truth or their soundness , the only direction in which he can proceed historically is not forward , but backward toward the time when there was no equality , no rights of the individual , no rule of the people . Those who wish to proceed in that direction can not lay claim to progress . They are reactionary . Their ideas are not more modern , but more ancient , than those of the Revolutionary fathers . In the development of its institutions America can fairly claim that it has remained true to the principles which were declared 150 years ago . In all the essentials we have achieved an equality which was never possessed by any other people . Even in the less important matter of material possessions we have secured a wider and wider distribution of wealth . The rights of the individual are held sacred and protected by constitutional guaranties which even the Government itself is bound not to violate . If there is any one thing among us that is established beyond question , it is self government the right of the people to rule . If there is any failure in respect to any of these principles , it is because there is a failure on the part of individuals to observe them . We hold that the duly authorized expression of the will of the people has a divine sanction . But even in that we come back to the theory of John Wise that Democracy is Christ s government . The ultimate sanction of law rests on the righteous authority of the Almighty . On an occasion like this great temptation exists to present evidence of the practical success of our form of democratic republic at home and the ever broadening acceptance it is securing abroad . Although these things are well known , their frequent consideration is an encouragement and an inspiration . But it is not results and effects so much as sources and causes that I believe it is even more necessary constantly to contemplate . Ours is a government of the people . It represents their will . Its officers may sometimes go astray , but that is not a reason for criticizing the principles of our institutions . The real heart of the American Government depends upon the heart of the people . It is from that source that we must look for all genuine reform . It is to that cause that we must ascribe all our results . It was in the contemplation of these truths that the fathers made their declaration and adopted their Constitution . It was to establish a free government , which must not be permitted to degenerate into the unrestrained authority of a mere majority or the unbridled weight of a mere influential few . They undertook to balance these interests against each other and provide the three separate independent branches , the executive , the legislative , and the judicial departments of the Government , with checks against each other in order that neither one might encroach upon the other . These are our guarantees of liberty . As a result of these methods enterprise has been duly protected from confiscation , the people have been free from oppression , and there has been an ever broadening and deepening of the humanities of life . Under a system of popular government there will always be those who will seek for political preferment by clamoring for reform . While there is very little of this which is not sincere , there is a large portion that is not well informed . In my opinion very little of just criticism can attach to the theories and principles of our institutions . There is far more danger of harm than there is hope of good in any radical changes . We do need a better understanding and comprehension of them and a better knowledge of the foundations of government in general Our forefathers came to certain conclusions and decided upon certain courses of action which have been a great blessing to the world . Before we can understand their conclusions we must go back and review the course which they followed . We must think the thoughts which they thought . Their intellectual life centered around the meetinghouse . They were intent upon religious worship . While there were always among them men of deep learning , and later those who had comparatively large possessions , the mind of the people was not so much engrossed in how much they knew , or how much they had , as in how they were going to live . While scantily provided with other literature , there was a wide acquaintance with the Scriptures . Over a period as great as that which measures the existence of our independence they were subject to this discipline not only in their religious life and educational training , but also in their political thought . They were a people who came under the influence of a great spiritual development and acquired a great moral power . No other theory is adequate to explain or comprehend the Declaration of Independence . It is the product of the spiritual insight of the people . We live in an age of science and of abounding accumulation of material things . These did not create our Declaration . Our Declaration created them . The things of the spirit come first . Unless we cling to that , all our material prosperity , overwhelming though it may appear , will turn to a barren scepter in our grasp . If we are to maintain the great heritage which has been bequeathed to us , we must be like minded as the fathers who created it . We must not sink into a pagan materialism . We must cultivate the reverence which they had for the things that are holy . We must follow the spiritual and moral leadership which they showed . We must keep replenished , that they may glow with a more compelling flame , the altar fires before which they worshiped .<speech_sep>My Countrymen No one can contemplate current conditions without finding much that is satisfying and still more that is encouraging . Our own country is leading the world in the general readjustment to the results of the great conflict . Many of its burdens will bear heavily upon us for years , and the secondary and indirect effects we must expect to experience for some time . But we are beginning to comprehend more definitely what course should be pursued , what remedies ought to be applied , what actions should be taken for our deliverance , and are clearly manifesting a determined will faithfully and conscientiously to adopt these methods of relief . Already we have sufficiently rearranged our domestic affairs so that confidence has returned , business has revived , and we appear to be entering an era of prosperity which is gradually reaching into every part of the Nation . Realizing that we can not live unto ourselves alone , we have contributed of our resources and our counsel to the relief of the suffering and the settlement of the disputes among the European nations . Because of what America is and what America has done , a firmer courage , a higher hope , inspires the heart of all humanity . These results have not occurred by mere chance . They have been secured by a constant and enlightened effort marked by many sacrifices and extending over many generations . We can not continue these brilliant successes in the future , unless we continue to learn from the past . It is necessary to keep the former experiences of our country both at home and abroad continually before us , if we are to have any science of government . If we wish to erect new structures , we must have a definite knowledge of the old foundations . We must realize that human nature is about the most constant thing in the universe and that the essentials of human relationship do not change . We must frequently take our bearings from these fixed stars of our political firmament if we expect to hold a true course . If we examine carefully what we have done , we can determine the more accurately what we can do . We stand at the opening of the one hundred and fiftieth year since our national consciousness first asserted itself by unmistakable action with an array of force . The old sentiment of detached and dependent colonies disappeared in the new sentiment of a united and independent Nation . Men began to discard the narrow confines of a local charter for the broader opportunities of a national constitution . Under the eternal urge of freedom we became an independent Nation . A little less than 50 years later that freedom and independence were reasserted in the face of all the world , and guarded , supported , and secured by the Monroe doctrine . The narrow fringe of States along the Atlantic seaboard advanced its frontiers across the hills and plains of an intervening continent until it passed down the golden slope to the Pacific . We made freedom a birthright . We extended our domain over distant islands in order to safeguard our own interests and accepted the consequent obligation to bestow justice and liberty upon less favored peoples . In the defense of our own ideals and in the general cause of liberty we entered the Great War . When victory had been fully secured , we withdrew to our own shores unrecompensed save in the consciousness of duty done . Throughout all these experiences we have enlarged our freedom , we have strengthened our independence . We have been , and propose to be , more and more American . We believe that we can best serve our own country and most successfully discharge our obligations to humanity by continuing to be openly and candidly , intensely and scrupulously , American . If we have any heritage , it has been that . If we have any destiny , we have found it in that direction . But if we wish to continue to be distinctively American , we must continue to make that term comprehensive enough to embrace the legitimate desires of a civilized and enlightened people determined in all their relations to pursue a conscientious and religious life . We can not permit ourselves to be narrowed and dwarfed by slogans and phrases . It is not the adjective , but the substantive , which is of real importance . It is not the name of the action , but the result of the action , which is the chief concern . It will be well not to be too much disturbed by the thought of either isolation or entanglement of pacifists and militarists . The physical configuration of the earth has separated us from all of the Old World , but the common brotherhood of man , the highest law of all our being , has united us by inseparable bonds with all humanity . Our country represents nothing but peaceful intentions toward all the earth , but it ought not to fail to maintain such a military force as comports with the dignity and security of a great people . It ought to be a balanced force , intensely modern , capable of defense by sea and land , beneath the surface and in the air . But it should be so conducted that all the world may see in it , not a menace , but an instrument of security and peace . This Nation believes thoroughly in an honorable peace under which the rights of its citizens are to be everywhere protected . It has never found that the necessary enjoyment of such a peace could be maintained only by a great and threatening array of arms . In common with other nations , it is now more determined than ever to promote peace through friendliness and good will , through mutual understandings and mutual forbearance . We have never practiced the policy of competitive armaments . We have recently committed ourselves by covenants with the other great nations to a limitation of our sea power . As one result of this , our Navy ranks larger , in comparison , than it ever did before . Removing the burden of expense and jealousy , which must always accrue from a keen rivalry , is one of the most effective methods of diminishing that unreasonable hysteria and misunderstanding which are the most potent means of fomenting war . This policy represents a new departure in the world . It is a thought , an ideal , which has led to an entirely new line of action . It will not be easy to maintain . Some never moved from their old positions , some are constantly slipping back to the old ways of thought and the old action of seizing a musket and relying on force . America has taken the lead in this new direction , and that lead America must continue to hold . If we expect others to rely on our fairness and justice we must show that we rely on their fairness and justice . If we are to judge by past experience , there is much to be hoped for in international relations from frequent conferences and consultations . We have before us the beneficial results of the Washington conference and the various consultations recently held upon European affairs , some of which were in response to our suggestions and in some of which we were active participants . Even the failures can not but be accounted useful and an immeasurable advance over threatened or actual warfare . I am strongly in favor of continuation of this policy , whenever conditions are such that there is even a promise that practical and favorable results might be secured . In conformity with the principle that a display of reason rather than a threat of force should be the determining factor in the intercourse among nations , we have long advocated the peaceful settlement of disputes by methods of arbitration and have negotiated many treaties to secure that result . The same considerations should lead to our adherence to the Permanent Court of International Justice . Where great principles are involved , where great movements are under way which promise much for the welfare of humanity by reason of the very fact that many other nations have given such movements their actual support , we ought not to withhold our own sanction because of any small and inessential difference , but only upon the ground of the most important and compelling fundamental reasons . We can not barter away our independence or our sovereignty , but we ought to engage in no refinements of logic , no sophistries , and no subterfuges , to argue away the undoubted duty of this country by reason of the might of its numbers , the power of its resources , and its position of leadership in the world , actively and comprehensively to signify its approval and to bear its full share of the responsibility of a candid and disinterested attempt at the establishment of a tribunal for the administration of even handed justice between nation and nation . The weight of our enormous influence must be cast upon the side of a reign not of force but of law and trial , not by battle but by reason . We have never any wish to interfere in the political conditions of any other countries . Especially are we determined not to become implicated in the political controversies of the Old World . With a great deal of hesitation , we have responded to appeals for help to maintain order , protect life and property , and establish responsible government in some of the small countries of the Western Hemisphere . Our private citizens have advanced large sums of money to assist in the necessary financing and relief of the Old World . We have not failed , nor shall we fail to respond , whenever necessary to mitigate human suffering and assist in the rehabilitation of distressed nations . These , too , are requirements which must be met by reason of our vast powers and the place we hold in the world . Some of the best thought of mankind has long been seeking for a formula for permanent peace . Undoubtedly the clarification of the principles of international law would be helpful , and the efforts of scholars to prepare such a work for adoption by the various nations should have our sympathy and support . Much may be hoped for from the earnest studies of those who advocate the outlawing of aggressive war . But all these plans and preparations , these treaties and covenants , will not of themselves be adequate . One of the greatest dangers to peace lies in the economic pressure to which people find themselves subjected . One of the most practical things to be done in the world is to seek arrangements under which such pressure may be removed , so that opportunity may be renewed and hope may be revived . There must be some assurance that effort and endeavor will be followed by success and prosperity . In the making and financing of such adjustments there is not only an opportunity , but a real duty , for America to respond with her counsel and her resources . Conditions must be provided under which people can make a living and work out of their difficulties . But there is another element , more important than all , without which there can not be the slightest hope of a permanent peace . That element lies in the heart of humanity . Unless the desire for peace be cherished there , unless this fundamental and only natural source of brotherly love be cultivated to its highest degree , all artificial efforts will be in vain . Peace will come when there is realization that only under a reign of law , based on righteousness and supported by the religious conviction of the brotherhood of man , can there be any hope of a complete and satisfying life . Parchment will fail , the sword will fail , it is only the spiritual nature of man that can be triumphant . It seems altogether probable that we can contribute most to these important objects by maintaining our position of political detachment and independence . We are not identified with any Old World interests . This position should be made more and more clear in our relations with all foreign countries . We are at peace with all of them . Our program is never to oppress , but always to assist . But while we do justice to others , we must require that justice be done to us . With us a treaty of peace means peace , and a treaty of amity means amity . We have made great contributions to the settlement of contentious differences in both Europe and Asia . But there is a very definite point beyond which we can not go . We can only help those who help themselves . Mindful of these limitations , the one great duty that stands out requires us to use our enormous powers to trim the balance of the world . While we can look with a great deal of pleasure upon what we have done abroad , we must remember that our continued success in that direction depends upon what we do at home . Since its very outset , it has been found necessary to conduct our Government by means of political parties . That system would not have survived from generation to generation if it had not been fundamentally sound and provided the best instrumentalities for the most complete expression of the popular will . It is not necessary to claim that it has always worked perfectly . It is enough to know that nothing better has been devised . No one would deny that there should be full and free expression and an opportunity for independence of action within the party . There is no salvation in a narrow and bigoted partisanship . But if there is to be responsible party government , the party label must be something more than a mere device for securing office . Unless those who are elected under the same party designation are willing to assume sufficient responsibility and exhibit sufficient loyalty and coherence , so that they can cooperate with each other in the support of the broad general principles , of the party platform , the election is merely a mockery , no decision is made at the polls , and there is no representation of the popular will . Common honesty and good faith with the people who support a party at the polls require that party , when it enters office , to assume the control of that portion of the Government to which it has been elected . Any other course is bad faith and a violation of the party pledges . When the country has bestowed its confidence upon a party by making it a majority in the Congress , it has a right to expect such unity of action as will make the party majority an effective instrument of government . This Administration has come into power with a very clear and definite mandate from the people . The expression of the popular will in favor of maintaining our constitutional guarantees was overwhelming and decisive . There was a manifestation of such faith in the integrity of the courts that we can consider that issue rejected for some time to come . Likewise , the policy of public ownership of railroads and certain electric utilities met with unmistakable defeat . The people declared that they wanted their rights to have not a political but a judicial determination , and their independence and freedom continued and supported by having the ownership and control of their property , not in the Government , but in their own hands . As they always do when they have a fair chance , the people demonstrated that they are sound and are determined to have a sound government . When we turn from what was rejected to inquire what was accepted , the policy that stands out with the greatest clearness is that of economy in public expenditure with reduction and reform of taxation . The principle involved in this effort is that of conservation . The resources of this country are almost beyond computation . No mind can comprehend them . But the cost of our combined governments is likewise almost beyond definition . Not only those who are now making their tax returns , but those who meet the enhanced cost of existence in their monthly bills , know by hard experience what this great burden is and what it does . No matter what others may want , these people want a drastic economy . They are opposed to waste . They know that extravagance lengthens the hours and diminishes the rewards of their labor . I favor the policy of economy , not because I wish to save money , but because I wish to save people . The men and women of this country who toil are the ones who bear the cost of the Government . Every dollar that we carelessly waste means that their life will be so much the more meager . Every dollar that we prudently save means that their life will be so much the more abundant . Economy is idealism in its most practical form . If extravagance were not reflected in taxation , and through taxation both directly and indirectly injuriously affecting the people , it would not be of so much consequence . The wisest and soundest method of solving our tax problem is through economy . Fortunately , of all the great nations this country is best in a position to adopt that simple remedy . We do not any longer need wartime revenues . The collection of any taxes which are not absolutely required , which do not beyond reasonable doubt contribute to the public welfare , is only a species of legalized larceny . Under this republic the rewards of industry belong to those who earn them . The only constitutional tax is the tax which ministers to public necessity . The property of the country belongs to the people of the country . Their title is absolute . They do not support any privileged class they do not need to maintain great military forces they ought not to be burdened with a great array of public employees . They are not required to make any contribution to Government expenditures except that which they voluntarily assess upon themselves through the action of their own representatives . Whenever taxes become burdensome a remedy can be applied by the people but if they do not act for themselves , no one can be very successful in acting for them . The time is arriving when we can have further tax reduction , when , unless we wish to hamper the people in their right to earn a living , we must have tax reform . The method of raising revenue ought not to impede the transaction of business it ought to encourage it . I am opposed to extremely high rates , because they produce little or no revenue , because they are bad for the country , and , finally , because they are wrong . We can not finance the country , we can not improve social conditions , through any system of injustice , even if we attempt to inflict it upon the rich . Those who suffer the most harm will be the poor . This country believes in prosperity . It is absurd to suppose that it is envious of those who are already prosperous . The wise and correct course to follow in taxation and all other economic legislation is not to destroy those who have already secured success but to create conditions under which every one will have a better chance to be successful . The verdict of the country has been given on this question . That verdict stands . We shall do well to heed it . These questions involve moral issues . We need not concern ourselves much about the rights of property if we will faithfully observe the rights of persons . Under our institutions their rights are supreme . It is not property but the right to hold property , both great and small , which our Constitution guarantees . All owners of property are charged with a service . These rights and duties have been revealed , through the conscience of society , to have a divine sanction . The very stability of our society rests upon production and conservation . For individuals or for governments to waste and squander their resources is to deny these rights and disregard these obligations . The result of economic dissipation to a nation is always moral decay . These policies of better international understandings , greater economy , and lower taxes have contributed largely to peaceful and prosperous industrial relations . Under the helpful influences of restrictive immigration and a protective tariff , employment is plentiful , the rate of pay is high , and wage earners are in a state of contentment seldom before seen . Our transportation systems have been gradually recovering and have been able to meet all the requirements of the service . Agriculture has been very slow in reviving , but the price of cereals at last indicates that the day of its deliverance is at hand . We are not without our problems , but our most important problem is not to secure new advantages but to maintain those which we already possess . Our system of government made up of three separate and independent departments , our divided sovereignty composed of Nation and State , the matchless wisdom that is enshrined in our Constitution , all these need constant effort and tireless vigilance for their protection and support . In a republic the first rule for the guidance of the citizen is obedience to law . Under a despotism the law may be imposed upon the subject . He has no voice in its making , no influence in its administration , it does not represent him . Under a free government the citizen makes his own laws , chooses his own administrators , which do represent him . Those who want their rights respected under the Constitution and the law ought to set the example themselves of observing the Constitution and the law . While there may be those of high intelligence who violate the law at times , the barbarian and the defective always violate it . Those who disregard the rules of society are not exhibiting a superior intelligence , are not promoting freedom and independence , are not following the path of civilization , but are displaying the traits of ignorance , of servitude , of savagery , and treading the way that leads back to the jungle . The essence of a republic is representative government . Our Congress represents the people and the States . In all legislative affairs it is the natural collaborator with the President . In spite of all the criticism which often falls to its lot , I do not hesitate to say that there is no more independent and effective legislative body in the world . It is , and should be , jealous of its prerogative . I welcome its cooperation , and expect to share with it not only the responsibility , but the credit , for our common effort to secure beneficial legislation . These are some of the principles which America represents . We have not by any means put them fully into practice , but we have strongly signified our belief in them . The encouraging feature of our country is not that it has reached its destination , but that it has overwhelmingly expressed its determination to proceed in the right direction . It is true that we could , with profit , be less sectional and more national in our thought . It would be well if we could replace much that is only a false and ignorant prejudice with a true and enlightened pride of race . But the last election showed that appeals to class and nationality had little effect . We were all found loyal to a common citizenship . The fundamental precept of liberty is toleration . We can not permit any inquisition either within or without the law or apply any religious test to the holding of office . The mind of America must be forever free . It is in such contemplations , my fellow countrymen , which are not exhaustive but only representative , that I find ample warrant for satisfaction and encouragement . We should not let the much that is to do obscure the much which has been done . The past and present show faith and hope and courage fully justified . Here stands our country , an example of tranquillity at home , a patron of tranquillity abroad . Here stands its Government , aware of its might but obedient to its conscience . Here it will continue to stand , seeking peace and prosperity , solicitous for the welfare of the wage earner , promoting enterprise , developing waterways and natural resources , attentive to the intuitive counsel of womanhood , encouraging education , desiring the advancement of religion , supporting the cause of justice and honor among the nations . America seeks no earthly empire built on blood and force . No ambition , no temptation , lures her to thought of foreign dominions . The legions which she sends forth are armed , not with the sword , but with the cross . The higher state to which she seeks the allegiance of all mankind is not of human , but of divine origin . She cherishes no purpose save to merit the favor of Almighty God .<speech_sep>Members of the Congress In meeting the constitutional requirement of informing the Congress upon the state of the Union , it is exceedingly gratifying to report that the general condition is one of progress and prosperity . Here and there are comparatively small and apparently temporary difficulties needing adjustment and improved administrative methods , such as are always to be expected , but i ii the fundamentals of government and business the results demonstrate that we are going in the right direction . The country does not appear to require radical departures from the policies already adopted so much as it needs a further extension of these policies and the improvement of details . The age of perfection is still in the somewhat distant future , but it is more in danger of being retarded by mistaken Government activity than it is from lack of legislation . We are by far the most likely to accomplish permanent good if we proceed with moderation . In our country the people are sovereign and independent , and must accept the resulting responsibilities . It is their duty to support themselves and support the Government . That is the business of the Nation , whatever the charity of the Nation may require . The functions which the Congress are to discharge are not those of local government but of National Government . The greatest solicitude should be exercised to prevent any encroachment upon the rights of the States or their various political subdivisions . Local self government is one of our most precious possessions . It is the greatest contributing factor to the stability strength liberty , and progress of the Nation . It ought not to be in ringed by assault or undermined by purchase . It ought not to abdicate its power through weakness or resign its authority through favor . It does not at all follow that because abuses exist it is the concern of the Federal Government to attempt the r reform . Society is in much more danger from encumbering the National Government beyond its wisdom to comprehend , or its ability to administer , than from leaving the local communities to bear their own burdens and remedy their own evils . Our local habit and custom is so strong , our variety of race and creed is so great the Federal authority is so tenuous , that the area within which it can function successfully is very limited . The wiser policy is to leave the localities , so far as we can , possessed of their own sources of revenue and charged with their own obligations . GOVERNMENT ECONOMY It is a fundamental principle of our country that the people are sovereign . While they recognize the undeniable authority of the state , they have established as its instrument a Government of limited powers . They hold inviolate in their own hands the jurisdiction over their own freedom and the ownership of their own property . Neither of these can be impaired except by due process of law . The wealth of our country is not public wealth , but private wealth . It does not belong to the Government , it belongs to the people . The Government has no justification in taking private Property except for a public purpose . It is always necessary to keep these principles in mind in the laying of taxes and in the making of appropriations . No right exists to levy on a dollar , or to order the expenditure of a dollar , of the money of the people , except for a necessary public purpose duly authorized by the Constitution . The power over the purse is the power over liberty . That is the legal limitation within which the Congress can act , How it will , proceed within this limitation is always a question of policy . When the country is prosperous and free from debt , when the rate of taxation is low , opportunity exists for assuming new burdens and undertaking new enterprises . Such a condition now prevails only to a limited extent . All proposals for assuming new obligations ought to be postponed , unless they are reproductive capital investments or are such as are absolutely necessary at this time . We still have an enormous debt of over 20 , 000 , 000 , 000 , on which the interest and sinking fund requirements are 1 , 320 , 000 , 000 . Our appropriations for the Pension Office and the Veterans Bureau are 600 , 000 , 000 . The War and Navy Departments call for 642 , 000 , 000 . Other requirements , exclusive of the Post Office which is virtually self sustaining , brought the appropriations for the current year up to almost C3 , 100 , 060 , 000 . This shows an expenditure of close to 30 for every inhabitant of our country . For the average family of five it means a tax , directly or indirectly paid , of about 150 for national purposes alone . The local tax adds much more . These enormous expenditures ought not to be increased , but through every possible effort they ought to be reduced . Only one of these great items can be ultimately extinguished . That is the item of our war debt . Already this has been reduced to about 6 , 000 , 000 , 000 , which means an annual saving in interest of close to 250 , 000 , 000 . The present interest charge is about 820 , 000 , 000 yearly . It would seem to be obvious that the sooner this debt can be retired the more the taxpayers will save in interest and the easier it will be to secure funds with which to prosecute needed running expenses , constructions , and improvements . This item of 820 , 000 , 000 for interest is a heavy charge on all the people of the country , and it seems to me that we might well consider whether it is not greatly worth while to dispense with it as early as possible by retiring the principal debt which it is required to serve . It has always been our policy to retire our debts . That of the Revolutionary War period , notwithstanding the additions made in 1812 , was paid by 1835 . and the Civil War debt within 23 years . Of the amount already paid , over 1 , 000 , 000 , 000 is a reduction in cash balances . That source is exhausted . Over one and two thirds billions of dollars was derived from excess receipts . Tax reduction eliminates that . The sale of surplus war materials has been another element of our income . That is practically finished . With these eliminated , the reduction of the debt has been only about 500 , 000 , 000 each year , not an excessive sum on so large a debt . Proposals have been made to extend the payment over a period of 62 years . If 1 , 000 , 000 , 000 is paid at the end of 20 years , the cost to the taxpayers is the principal and , I f the interest is 4 per cent , a total of 1 , 850 , 000 , 000 . If the same sum is paid at the end of 62 years , the cost is 3 , 635 , 000 , 000 , or almost double . Here is another consideration Compared with its purchasing power in 1913 , the dollar we borrowed represented but 52 cents . As the value of our dollar increases , due to the falling prices of commodities , the burden of our debt increases . It has now risen to 631 2 cents . The taxpayer will be required to produce nearly twice the amount of commodities to pay his debt if the dollar returns to the 1913 value . The more we pay while prices are high , the easier it will be . Deflation of government after a war period is slower than deflation of business , where curtailment is either prompt and effective or disaster follows . There is room for further economy in the cost of the Federal Government , but a co n of current expenditures with pre war expenditures is not able to the efficiency with which Government business is now being done . The expenditures of 19161 the last pre war year , were 742 , 000 , 000 , and in 1925 over 3 , 500 , 000 , 000 , or nearly five times as great . If we subtract expenditures for debt retirements and interest , veterans relief , increase of pensions , and other special outlays , consisting of refunds , trust investments , and like charges , we find that the general expenditures of the Government in 1925 were slightly more than twice as large as in 1916 . As prices in 1925 were approximately 40 per cent higher than in 1916 , the cost of the same Government must also have increased . But the Government is not the same . It is more expensive to collect the much greater revenue necessary and to administer our great debt . We have given enlarged and improved services to agriculture and commerce . Above all , America has grown in population and wealth . Government expenditures must always share inthis growth . Taking into account the factors I have mentioned , I believe that present Federal expenses are not far out of line with pre war expenses . We have nearly accomplished the deflation . This does not mean that further economies will not come . As we reduce our debt our interest charges decline . There are many details yet to correct . The real improvement , however , must come not from additional curtailment of expenses , but by a more intelligent , more ordered spending . Our economy must be constructive . While we should avoid as far as possible increases in permanent current expenditures , oftentimes a capital outlay like internal improvements will result in actual constructive saving . That is economy in its best sense . It is an avoidance of waste that there may be the means for an outlay to day which will bring larger returns to morrow . We should constantly engage in scientific studies of our future requirements and adopt an orderly program for their service . Economy is the method by which we prepare to day to afford the improvements of to morrow . A mere policy of economy without any instrumentalities for putting it into operation would be very ineffective . The Congress has wisely set up the Bureau of the Budget to investigate and inform the President what recommendations he ought to make for current appropriations . This gives a centralized authority where a general and comprehensive understanding can be reached of the sources of income and the most equitable distribution of expenditures . How well it has worked is indicated by the fact that the departmental estimates for 1922 , before the budget law , were 4 , 068 , 000 , 000 while the Budget estimates for 1927 are 3 , 156 , 000 , 000 . This latter figure shows the reductions in departmental estimates for the coming year made possible by the operation of the Budget system that the Congress has provided . But it is evidently not enough to have care in making appropriations without any restraint upon expenditure . The Congress has provided that check by establishing the office of Comptroller General . The purpose of maintaining the Budget Director and the Comptroller General is to secure economy and efficiency in Government expenditure . No better method has been devised for the accomplishment of that end . These offices can not be administered in all the various details without making some errors both of fact and of judgment . But the important consideration remains that these are the instrumentalities of the Congress and that no other plan has ever been adopted which was so successful in promoting economy and efficiency . The Congress has absolute authority over the appropriations and is free to exercise its judgment , as the evidence may warrant , in increasing or decreasing budget recommendations . But it ought to resist every effort to weaken or break down this most beneficial system of supervising appropriations and expenditures . Without it all the claim of economy would be a mere pretense . TAXATION The purpose of reducing expenditures is to secure a reduction in taxes . That purpose is about to be realized . With commendable promptness the Ways and Means Committee of the House has undertaken in advance of the meeting of the Congress to frame a revenue act . As the bill has proceeded through the committee it has taken on a nonpartisan character , and both Republicans and Democrats have joined in a measure which embodies many sound principles of tax reform . The bill will correct substantially the economic defects injected into the revenue act of 1924 , as well as many which have remained as war time legacies . In its present form it should provide sufficient revenue for the Government . The excessive surtaxes have been reduced , estate tax rates arv restored to more reasonable figures , with every prospect of withdrawing from the field when the States have had the opportunity to correct the abuses in their own inheritance tax laws , the gift tax and publicity section are to be repealed many miscellaneous taxes are lowered or abandoned , and the Board of Tax Appeals and the administrative features of the law are improved and strengthened . I approve of the bill in principle . In so far as income tax exemptions are concerned , it seems , to me the committee has gone as far as it is Safe to go and somewhat further than I should have gone . Any further extension along these lines would , in my opinion , impair tile integrity of our income tax system . I am advised that the bill will . be through the House by Christmas . For this prompt action the country call thank the good sense of the Ways and Means Committee in framing an economic measure upon economic considerations . If this attitude continues to be reflected through the Congress , the taxpayer will have his relief by the time his March 15th installment of income taxes is due . Nonpartisan effort means certain , quick action . Determination of a revenue law definitely , promptly and solely as a revenue law , is one of the greatest gifts a legislature can bestow upon its constituents . I commend the example of file Ways and Means Committee . If followed , it will place sound legislation upon the books in time to give the taxpayers the full benefit of tax reduction next year . This means that the bill should reach me prior to March 15 . All these economic results are being sought not to benefit the rich , but to benefit the people . They are for the purpose of encouraging industry in order that employment may be plentiful . They seek to make business good in order that wages may be good . They encourage prosperity in order that poverty may be banished from the home . They , seek to lay the foundation which , through increased production , may , give the people a more bountiful supply of the necessaries of life , afford more leisure for the improvement of the mind , the appreciation of the arts of music and literature , sculpture and painting , and the beneficial enjoyment of outdoor sports and recreation , enlarge the resources which minister to charity and by aU these means attempting to strengthen the spiritual life of the Nation . FOREIGN RELATIONS The policy of our foreign relations , casting aside any suggestion of force , rests solely on the foundation of peace , good will , and good works . We have sought , in our intercourse with other nations , better understandings through conference and exchange of views its befits beings endowed with reason . The results have been the gradual elimination of disputes , the settlement of controversies , and the establishment of a firmer friendship between America and the rest of the world that has ever existed tit any previous time . The example of this attitude has not been without its influence upon other countries . Acting upon it , an adjustment was made of the difficult problem of reparations . This was the second step toward peace in Europe . It paved the way for the agreements which were drawn tip at the Locarno Conference . When ratified , these will represent the third step toward peace . While they do not of themselves provide an economic rehabilitation , which is necessary for the progress of Europe , by strengthening the guarantees of peace they diminish the need for great armaments . If the energy which now goes into military effort is transferred to productive endeavor it will greatly assist economic progress . The Locarno agreements were made by the , European countries directly interested without any formal intervention of America , although on July 3 1 publicly advocated such agreements in an address made in Massachusetts . We have consistently refrained from intervening except when our help has been sought and we have felt it could be effectively given , as in the settlement of reparations and the London Conference . These recent Locarno agreements represent the success of this policy which we have been insisting ought to be adopted , of having European countries settle their own political problems without involving this country . This beginning seems to demonstrate that this policy is sound . It is exceedingly gratifying to observe this progress , both in its method and in its result promises so much that is beneficial to the world . When these agreements are finally adopted , they will provide guarantees of peace that make the present prime reliance upon force in some parts of Europe very much less necessary . The natural corollary to these treaties should be further international contracts for the limitation of armaments . This work was successfully begun at the Washington Conference . Nothing was done at that time concerning land forces because of European objection . Our standing army has been reduced to around 118 , 000 , about the necessary police force for 115 , 000 , 000 people . We are not proposing to increase it , nor is it supposable that any foreign country looks with the slightest misapprehension upon our land forces . They do not menace anybody . They are rather a protection to everybody . The question of disarming upon land is so peculiarly European in its practical aspects that our country would look with particular gratitude upon any action which those countries might take to reduce their own military forces . This is in accordance with our policy of not intervening unless the European powers are unable to agree and make request for our assistance . Whenever they are able to agree of their own accord it is especially gratifying to its , and such agreements may be sure of our sympathetic support . It seems clear that it is the reduction of armies rather than of navies that is of the first importance to the world at the present time . We shall look with great satisfaction upon that effort and give it our approbation and encouragement . If that can be settled , we may more easily consider further reduction and limitation of naval armaments . For that purpose our country has constantly through its Executive , and through repeated acts of Congress , indicated its willingness to call such a conference . Under congressional sanction it would seem to be wise to participate in any conference of the great powers for naval limitation of armament proposed upon such conditions that it would hold a fair promise of being effective . The general policy of our country is for disarmament , and it ought not to hesitate to adopt any practical plan that might reasonably be expected to succeed . But it would not care to attend a conference which from its location or constituency would in all probability prove futile . In the further pursuit , of strengthening the bonds of peace and good will we have joined with other nations in an international conference held at Geneva and signed an agreement which will be laid before the Senate for ratification providing suitable measures for control and for publicity in international trade in arms , ammunition . and implements of war , and also executed a protocol providing for a prohibition of the use of poison gas in war , in accordance with the principles of Article 5 of the treaty relating thereto signed at tile Washington Conference . We are supporting the Pan American efforts that are being made toward the codification of international . law , and looking with sympathy oil the investigations conducted under philanthropic auspices of the proposal to agreements outlawing war . In accordance with promises made at the Washington Conference , we have urged the calling of and are now represented at the Chinese Customs Conference and on the Commission on Extraterritoriality , where it will be our policy so far as possible to meet the , aspirations of China in all ways consistent with the interests of the countries involved . COURT OF INTERNATIONAL JUSTICE Pending before the Senate for nearly three years is the proposal to adhere to the protocol establishing the Permanent Court of International Justice . A well established line of precedents mark America s effort to effect the establishment of it court of this nature . . We took a leading part in laying the foundation on which it rests in the establishment of The Hague Court of Arbitration . It is that tribunal which nominates the judges who are elected by tile Council and Assembly of the League of Nations . The proposal submitted to the Senate was made dependent upon four conditions , the first of which is that by supporting the court we do not assume any obligations under the league second , that we may participate upon an equality with other States in the election of judges third , that the Congress shall determine what part of the expenses we shall bear fourth , that the statute creating tile court shall not be amended without out consent and to these I have proposed an additional condition to the effect that we are not to be bound by advisory opinions rendered without our consent . The court appears to be independent of the league . It is true tile judges are elected by tile Assembly and Council , but they are nominated by the Court of Arbitration , which we assisted to create and of which we are a part . The court was created by it statute , so called , which is really a treaty made among some forty eight different countries , that might properly be called a constitution of the court . This statute provides a method by which the judges are chosen so that when the Court of Arbitration nominates them and the Assembly and Council of the League elect them , they are not acting as instruments of the Court of Arbitration or instruments of the league , but as instruments of the statute . This will be even more apparent if our representatives sit with the members of the council and assembly in electing the judges . It is true they are paid through the league though not by the league , but by the countries which are members of the league and by our country if we accept the protocol . The judges are paid by the league only in the same sense that it could be said United States judges are paid by the Congress . The court derives all its authority from the statute and is so completely independent of the league that it could go on functioning if the league were disbanded , at least until the terms of the judges expired . The most careful provisions are made in the statute as to the qualifications of judges . Those who make the nominations are recommended to consult with their highest court of justice , their law schools and academies . The judges must be persons of high moral character , qualified to hold the highest judicial offices in that country , or be jurisconsults of recognized competence in international law . It must be assumed that these requirements will continue to be carefully met , and with America joining the countries already concerned it is difficult to comprehend how human ingenuity could better provide for the establishment of a court which would maintain its independence . It has to be recognized that independence is to a considerable extent a matter of ability , character , and personality . Some effort was made in the early beginnings to interfere with the independence of our Supreme Court . It did not succeed because of the quality of the men who made up that tribunal . It does not seem that the authority to give advisory opinions interferes with the independence of the court . Advisory opinions in and of themselves are not harmful , but may be used in such a way as to be very beneficial because they undertake to prevent injury rather than merely afford a remedy after the injury has been done . As a principle that only implies that the court shall function when proper application is made to it . Deciding the question involved upon issues submitted for an advisory opinion does not differ materially from deciding the question involved upon issues submitted by contending parties . Up to the present time the court has given an advisory opinion when it judged it had jurisdiction , and refused to give one when it judged it did not have jurisdiction . Nothing in the work of the court has yet been an indication that this is an impairment of its independence or that its practice differs materially from the giving of like opinions under the authority of the constitutions of several of our States . No provision of the statute seems to me to give this court any authority to be a political rather than a judicial court . We have brought cases in this country before our courts which , when they have been adjudged to be political , have been thereby dismissed . It is not improbable that political questions will be submitted to this court , but again up to the present time the court has refused to pass on political questions and our support would undoubtedly have a tendency to strengthen it in that refusal . We are not proposing to subject ourselves to any compulsory jurisdiction . If we support the court , we can never be obliged to submit any case which involves our interests for its decision . Our appearance before it would always be voluntary , for the purpose of presenting a case which we had agreed might be presented . There isno more danger that others might bring cases before the court involving our interests which we did not wish to have brought , after we have adhered , and probably not so much , than there would be of bringing such cases if we do not adhere . I think that we would have the same legal or moral right to disregard such a finding in the one case that we would in the other . If we are going to support any court , it will not be one that we have set tip alone or which reflects only our ideals . Other nations have their customs and their institutions , their thoughts and their methods of life . If a court is going to be international , its composition will have to yield to what is good in all these various elements . Neither will it be possible to support a court which is exactly perfect , or under which we assume absolutely no obligations . If we are seeking that opportunity , we might as well declare that we are opposed to supporting any court . If any agreement is made , it will be because it undertakes to set up a tribunal which can do some of the things that other nations wish to have done . We shall not find ourselves bearing a disproportionate share of the world s burdens by our adherence , and we may as well remember that there is absolutely no escape for our country from bearing its share of the world s burdens in any case . We shall do far better service to ourselves and to others if we admit this and discharge our duties voluntarily , than if we deny it and are forced to meet the same obligations unwillinglyIt is difficult to imagine anything that would be more helpful to the world than stability , tranquility and international justice . We may say that we are contributing to these factors independently , but others less fortunately located do not and can not make a like contribution except through mutual cooperation . The old balance of power , mutual alliances , and great military forces were not brought bout by any mutual dislike for independence , but resulted from the domination of circumstances . Ultimately they were forced on us . Like all others engaged in the war whatever we said as a matter of fact we joined an alliance , we became a military power , we impaired our independence . We have more at stake than any one else in avoiding a repetition of that calamity . Wars do not , spring into existence . They arise from small incidents and trifling irritations which can be adjusted by an international court . We can contribute greatly to the advancement of our ideals by joining with other nations in maintaining such a tribunal . FOREIGN DEBTS Gradually , settlements have been made which provide for the liquidation of debts due to our Government from foreign governments . Those made with Great Britain , Finland , Hungary Lithuania , and Poland have already been approved by the Congress . Since the adjournment , further agreements have been entered into with Belgium , Czechoslovakia , Latvia , Estonia , Italy , and Rumania . These 11 nation , , , which have already made settlements , represent 6 , 419 , 528 , 641 of the original principal of the loans . The principal sums without interest , still pending , are the debt of France , of 3 , 340 , 000 , 000 Greece , 15 , 000 , 000 Yugoslavia , . 51 , 000 , 000 Liberia , 26 , 000 Russia , 192 , 000 , 000 , which those at present in control have undertaken , openly to repudiate Nicaragua , 84 , 000 , which is being paid currently and Austria , 24 , 000 , 000 , on which by act of Congress a moratorium of 20 years has been granted . The only remaining sum is 12 , 000 , 000 , due from Armenia , which has now ceased to exist as an independent nation . In accordance with the settlements made , the amount of principal and interest which is to be paid to the United States under these agreements aggregate 15 , 200 , 688 , 253 . 93 . It is obvious that the remaining settlements , which will undoubtedly be made , will bring this sum up to an amount which will more than equal the principal due on our present national debt . While these settlements are very large in the aggregate , it has been felt that the terms granted were in all cases very generous . They impose no undue burden and are mutually beneficial in the observance of international faith and the improvement of international credit . Every reasonable effort will be made to secure agreements for liquidation with the remaining countries , whenever they are in such condition that they can be made . Those which have already been negotiated under the bipartisan commission established by the Congress have been made only after the most thoroughgoing and painstaking investigation , continued for a long time before meeting with the representatives of the countries concerned . It is believed that they represent in each instance the best that can be done and the wisest settlement that can be secured . One very important result is the stabilization of foreign currency , making exchange assist rather than embarrass our trade . Wherever sacrifices have been made of money , it will be more than amply returned in better understanding and friendship , while in so far as these adjustments will contribute to the financial stability of the debtor countries , to their good order , prosperity , and progress , they represent hope of improved trade relations and mutual contributions to the civilization of the world . ALIEN PROBLEM Negotiations are progressing among the interested parties in relation to the final distribution of the assets in the hands of the Alien Property Custodian . Our Government and people are interested as creditors the German Government and people are interested as debtors and owners of the seized property . Pending the outcome of these negotiations , I do not recommend any affirmative legislation . For the present we should continue in possession of this property which we hold as security for the settlement of claims due to our people and our Government . IMMIGRATION While not enough time has elapsed to afford a conclusive demonstration , such results as have been secured indicate that our immigration law is on the whole beneficial . It is undoubtedly a protection to the wage earners of this country . The situation should however , be carefully surveyed , in order to ascertain whether it is working a needless hardship upon our own inhabitants . If it deprives them of the comfort and society of those bound to them by close family ties , such modifications should be adopted as will afford relief , always in accordance with the principle that our Government owes its first duty to our own people and that no alien , inhabitant of another country , has any legal rights whatever under our Constitution and laws . It is only through treaty , or through residence here that such rights accrue . But we should not , however , be forgetful of the obligations of a common humanity . While our country numbers among its best citizens many of those of foreign birth , yet those who now enter in violation of our laws bi that very act thereby place themselves in a class of undesirables . T investigation reveals that any considerable number are coming here in defiance of our immigration restrictions , it will undoubtedly create the necessity for the registration of all aliens . We ought to have no prejudice against an alien because lie is an alien . The standard which we apply to our inhabitants is that of manhood , not place of birth . Restrictive immigration is to a large degree for economic purposes . It is applied in order that we may not have a larger annual increment of good people within our borders than we can weave into our economic fabric in such a way as to supply their needs without undue injury to ourselves . NATIONAL DEFENSE Never before in time of peace has our country maintained so large and effective a military force . as it now has . The Army , Navy , Marine Corps , National Guard , and Organized Reserves represent a strength of about 558 , 400 men . These forces are well trained , well equipped , and high in morale . A sound selective service act giving broad authority for the mobilization in time of peril of all the resources of the country , both persons and materials , is needed to perfect our defense policy in accordance with our ideals of equality . The provision for more suitable housing to be paid for out of funds derived from the sale of excess lands , pending before the last Congress , ought to be brought forward and passed . Reasonable replacements ought to be made to maintain a sufficient ammunition reserve . The Navy has the full treaty tonnage of capital ships . Work is going forward in modernizing the older ones , building aircraft carriers , additional fleet submarines , and fast scout cruisers , but we are carefully avoiding anything that might be construed as a competition in armaments with other nations . The joint Army and Navy maneuvers at Hawaii , followed by the cruise of a full Battle Fleet to Australia and New Zealand , were successfully carried out . These demonstrations revealed a most satisfactory condition of the ships and the men engaged . Last year at my suggestion the General Board of the Navy made an investigation and report on the relation of aircraft to warships . As a result authorizations and appropriations were made for more scout cruisers and fleet submarines and for completing aircraft carriers and equipping them with necessary planes . Additional training in aviation was begun at the Military and Naval Academies . A method of coordination and cooperation of the Army and Navy and the principal aircraft builders is being perfected . At the suggestion of the Secretaries of War and Navy I appointed a special board to make a further study of the problem of aircraft . The report of the Air Board ought to be reassuring to the country , gratifying to the service and satisfactory to the Congress . It is thoroughly complete and represents the mature thought of the best talent in the country . No radical change in organization of the service seems necessary . The Departments of War , Navy , and Commerce should each be provided with an additional assistant secretary , not necessarily with statutory duties but who would be available under the direction of the Secretary to give especial attention to air navigation . We must have an air strength worthy of America . Provision should be made for two additional brigadier generals for the Army Air Service . Temporary rank corresponding to their duties should be awarded to active flying officers in both Army and Navy . Aviation is of great importance both for national defense and commercial development . We ought to proceed in its improvement by the necessary experiment and investigation . Our country is not behind in this art . It has made records for speed and for the excellence of its planes . It ought to go on maintaining its manufacturing plants capable of rapid production , giving national assistance to tile la in out of airways , equipping itself with a moderate number of planes and keeping an air force trained to the highest efficiency . While I am a thorough believer in national defense and entirely committed to the policy of adequate preparation , I am just as thoroughly opposed to instigating or participating in a policy of competitive armaments . Nor does preparation mean a policy of militarizing . Our people and industries are solicitous for the cause of 0111 , country , and have great respect for the Army and Navy and foil the uniform worn by the men who stand ready at all times for our protection to encounter the dangers and perils necessary to military service , but all of these activities are to be taken not in behalf of aggression but in behalf of peace . They are the instruments by which we undertake to do our part to promote good will and support stability among all peoples . VETERANS If any one desires to estimate the esteem in which the veterans of America are held by their fellow citizens , it is but necessary to remember that the current budget calls for an expenditure of about 650 , 000 . 000 in their behalf . This is nearly the amount of the total cost of the National Government , exclusive of the post office , before we entered the last war . At the two previous sessions of Congress legislation affecting veterans relief was enacted and the law liberalized . This legislation brought into being a number of new provisions tending more nearly to meet the needs of our veterans , as well as afford the necessary authority to perfect the administration of these laws . Experience with the new legislation so far has clearly demonstrated its constructive nature . It has increased the benefits received by many and bas made eligible for benefits many others . Direct disbursements to the veteran or his dependents exceeding 21 , 000 , 000 have resulted , which otherwise would not have been made . The degree of utilization of our hospitals has increased through making facilities available to the incapacitated veteran regardless of service origin of the disability . This new legislation also has brought about a marked improvement of service to the veteran . The organizations of ex service men have proposed additional legislative changes which you will consider , but until the new law and the modifications made at the last session of Congress are given a more thorough test further changes in the basic law should be few and made only after careful though sympathetic consideration . The principal work now before the Veterans Bureau is the perfection of its organization and further improvements in service . Some minor legislative changes are deemed necessary to enable the bureau to retain that high grade of professional talent essential in handling the problems of the bureau . Such changes as tend toward the improvement of service and the carrying forward to completion of the hospital construction program are recommended for the consideration of the proper committees of Congress . With the enormous outlay that is now being made in behalf of the veterans and their dependents , with a tremendous war debt still requiring great annual expenditure , with the still high rate of taxation , while . every provision should be made for the relief of the disabled and the necessary care of dependents , the Congress may well consider whether the financial condition of the Government is not such that further bounty through the enlargement of general pensions and other emoluments ought not to be postponed . AGRICULTURE No doubt the position of agriculture as a whole has very much improved since the depression of three and four years ago . But there are many localities and many groups of individuals , apparently through no fault of their own , sometimes due to climatic conditions and sometimes to the prevailing price of a certain crop , still in a distressing condition . This is probably temporary , but it is none the less acute . National Government agencies , the Departments of Agriculture and Commerce , the Farm Loan Board , the intermediate credit banks , and the Federal Reserve Board are all cooperating to be of assistance and relief . On the other hand , there are localities and individuals who have had one of their most prosperous years . The general price level is fair , but here again there are exceptions both ways , some items being poor while others are excellent . In spite of a lessened production the farm income for this year will be about the same as last year and much above the three preceding years . Agriculture is a very complex industry . It does not consist of one problem , but of several . They can not be solved at one stroke . They have to be met in different ways , and small gains are not to be despised . It has appeared from all the investigations that I have been able to make that the farmers as a whole are determined to maintain the independence of their business . , They do not wish to have meddling on the part of the Government or to be placed under the inevitable restrictions involved in any system of direct or indirect price fixing , which would result from permitting the Government to operate in the agricultural markets . They are showing a very commendable skill in organizing themselves to transact their own business through cooperative . marketing , which will this year turn over about 2 , 500 , 000 , 000 , or nearly one fifth of the total agricultural business . In this they are receiving help from the Government . The Department of Agriculture should be strengthened in this facility , in order to be able to respond when these marketing associations want help . While it ought not to undertake undue regulation , it should be equipped to give prompt information on crop prospects , supply , demand , current receipts , imports , exports , and prices . A bill embodying these principles , which has been drafted under the advice and with the approval of substantially all the leaders and managers in the cooperative movement , will be presented to the Congress for its enactment . Legislation should also be considered to provide for leasing the unappropriated public domain for grazing purposes and adopting a uniform policy relative to grazing on the public lands and in the national forests . A more intimate relation should be established between agriculture and the other business activities of the Nation . They are mutually dependent and can each advance their own prosperity most by advancing the prosperity of the other . Meantime the Government will continue those activities which have resulted in an unprecedented amount of legislation and the pouring out of great sums of money during the last five years . The work for good roads , better land and water transportation , increased support for agricultural education , extension of credit facilities through the Farm Loan Boards and the intermediate credit banks , the encouragement of orderly marketing and a repression of wasteful speculation , will all be continued . Following every other depression , after a short period the price of farm produce has taken and maintained the lead in the advance . This advance had reached a climax before the war . Everyone will recall the discussion that went on for four or five years prior to 1914 concerning the high cost of living . This history is apparently beginning to repeat itself . While wholesale prices of other commodities have been declining , farm prices have been increasing . There is every reason to suppose that a new era in agricultural prosperity lies just before us , which will probably be unprecedented . MUSCLE SHOALS The problem of Muscle Shoals seems to me to have assumed a place all out of proportion with its real importance . It probably does not represent in market value much more than a first class battleship , yet it has been discussed in the Congress over a period of years and for months at a time . It ought to be developed for the production of nitrates primarily , and incidentally for power purposes . This would serve defensive , agricultural , and industrial purposes . I am in favor of disposing of this property to meet these purposes . The findings of the special commission will be transmitted to the Congress for their information . I am convinced that the best possible disposition can be made by direct authorization of the Congress . As a means of negotiation I recommend the immediate appointment of a small joint special committee chosen from the appropriate general standing committees of the House and Senate to receive bids , which when made should be reported with recommendations as to acceptance , upon which a law should be enacted , effecting a sale to the highest bidder who will agree to carry out these purposes . If anything were needed to demonstrate the almost utter incapacity of the National Government to deal directly with an industrial and commercial problem , it has been provided by our experience with this property . We have expended vast fortunes , we have taxed everybody , but we are unable to secure results , which benefit anybody . This property ought , to be transferred to private management under conditions which will dedicate it to the public purpose for which it was conceived . RECLAMATION The National Government is committed to a policy of reclamation and irrigation which it desires to establish on a sound basis and continue in the interest of the localities concerned . Exhaustive studies have recently been made of Federal reclamation , which have resulted in improving the projects and adjusting many difficulties . About one third of the projects is in good financial condition , another third can probably be made profitable , while the other third is under unfavorable conditions . The Congress has already provided for a survey which will soon be embodied in a report . That ought to suggest a method of relief which will make unnecessary further appeals to the Congress . Unless this can be done , Federal reclamation will be considerably retarded . With the greatly increased cost of construction and operation , it has become necessary to plan in advance , by community organization and selective agriculture , methods sufficient to repay these increasing outlays . The human and economic interests of the farmer citizens suggest that the States should be required to exert some effort and assume some responsibility , especially in the intimate , detailed , and difficult work of securing settlers and developing farms which directly profit them , but only indirectly and remotely can reimburse the Nation . It is believed that the Federal Government should continue to be the agency for planning and constructing the great undertakings needed to regulate and bring into use the rivers the West , many of which are interstate in character , but the detailed work of creating agricultural communities and a rural civilization on the land made ready for reclamation ought to be either transferred to the State in its entirety or made a cooperative effort of the State and Federal Government . SHIPPING The maintenance of a merchant marine is of the utmost importance for national defense and the service of our commerce . We have a large number of ships engaged in that service . We also have a surplus supply , costly to care for , which ought to be sold . All the investigations that have been made under my direction , and those which have been prosecuted independently , have reached the conclusion that the fleet should be under the direct control of a single executive head , while the Shipping Board should exercise its judicial and regulatory functions in Accordance with its original conception . The report of Henry Dalton , a business man of broad experience , with a knowledge of shipping , made to me after careful investigation , will be transmitted for the information of the Congress , the studies pursued under the direction of the United States Chamber of Commerce will also be accessible , and added to these will be the report of the special committee of the House . I do not advocate the elimination of regional considerations , but it has become apparent that without centralized executive action the management of this great business , like the management of any other great business , will flounder in incapacity and languish under a division of council . A plain and unmistakable reassertion of this principle of unified control , which I have always been advised was the intention of the Congress to apply , is necessary to increase the efficiency of our merchant fleet . COAL The perennial conflict in the coal industry is still going on to the great detriment of the wage earners , the owners , and especially to the public . With deposits of coal in this country capable of supplying its needs for hundreds of years , inability to manage and control this great resource for the benefit of all concerned is very close to a national economic failure . It has been the subject of repeated investigation and reiterated recommendation . Yet the industry seems never to have accepted modern methods of adjusting differences between employers and employees . The industry could serve the public much better and become subject to a much more effective method of control if regional consolidations and more freedom in the formation of marketing associations , under the supervision of the Department of Commerce , were permitted . At the present time the National Government has little or no authority to deal with this vital necessity of the life of the country . It has permitted itself to remain so powerless that its only attitude must be humble supplication . Authority should be lodged with the President and the Departments of Commerce and Labor , giving them power to deal with an emergency . They should be able to appoint temporary boards with authority to call for witnesses and documents , conciliate differences , encourage arbitration , and in case of threatened scarcity exercise control over distribution . Making the facts public under these circumstances through a statement from an authoritative source would be of great public benefit . The report of the last coal commission should be brought forward , reconsidered , and acted upon . PROHIBITION Under the orderly processes of our fundamental institutions the Constitution was lately amended providing for national prohibition . The Congress passed an act for its enforcement , and similar acts have been provided by most of the States . It is the law of the land . It is the duty of all who come under its , jurisdiction to observe the spirit of that law , and it is the duty of the Department of Justice and the Treasury Department to enforce it . Action to prevent smuggling , illegal transportation in interstate commerce , abuse in the use of permits , and existence of sources of supply for illegal traffic is almost entirely imposed upon the Federal Government . Through treaties with foreign governments and increased activities of the Coast Guard , revenue agents , district attorneys and enforcement agents effort is being made to prevent these violations . But the Constitution also puts a concurrent duty on the States . We need their active and energetic cooperation , the vigilant action of their police , and the jurisdiction of their courts to assist in enforcement . I request of the people observance , of the public officers continuing . efforts for enforcement , and of the Congress favorable action on the budget recommendation for the prosecution of this work . WATERWAY DEVELOPMENT For many years our country has been employed in plans and M for the development of our intracoastal and inland waterways . This work along our coast is an important adjunct to our commerce . It will be carried on , together with the further opening up of our harbors , as our resources permit . The Government made an agreement during the war to take over the Cape Cod Canal , under which the owners made valuable concessions . This pledged faith of the Government ought to be redeemed . Two other main fields are under consideration . One is the Great Lakes and Lawrence , including the Erie Canal . This includes stabilizing the lake level , and is both a waterway and power project . A joint commission of the United States and Canada is working on plans and surveys which will not be completed until next April . No final determination can be made , apparently , except under treaty as to the participation of both countries . The other is the Mississippi River stem . This is almost entirely devoted to navigation . Work on the Ohio River will be completed in about three years . A modern channel connecting Chicago , New Orleans , Kansas City , and Pittsburgh should be laid out and work on the tributaries prosecuted . Some work is being done of a preparatory nature along the Missouri , and large expenditures are being made yearly in the lower reaches of the Mississippi and its tributaries which contribute both to flood control and navigation . Preliminary measures are being taken on tile Colorado River project , which is exceedingly important for flood control , irrigation , power development , and water supply to the area concerned . It would seem to be very doubtful , however , whether it is practical to secure affirmative action of the Congress , except under a Joint agreement of the several States . The Government has already expended large sums upon scientific research and engineering investigation in promotion of this Colorado River project . The actual progress has been retarded for many years by differences among the seven States in the basin over their relative water rights and among different groups as to methods . In an attempt to settle the primary difficulty of the water rights , Congress authorized the Colorado River Commission which agreed on November 24 , 1922 , upon an interstate compact to settle these rights , subject to the ratification of the State legislatures and Congress . All seven States except Arizona at one time ratified , the Arizona Legislature making certain reservations which failed to meet the approval of the governor . Subsequently an attempt was made to establish the compact upon a six State basis , but in this case California imposed reservations . There appears to be no division of opinion upon the major principles of the compact , but difficulty in separating contentions to methods of development from the discussion of it . It is imperative that flood control be undertaken for California and Arizona . preparation made for irrigation , for power , and for domestic water . Some or all of these questions are combined in every proposed development . The Federal Government is interested in some of these phases , State governments and municipalities and irrigation districts in others , and private corporations in still others . Because of all this difference of view it is most desirable that Congress should consider the creation of some agency that will be able to determine methods of improvement solely upon economic and engineering facts , that would be authorized to negotiate and settle , subject to the approval of Congress , the participation , rights , and obligations of each group in any particular works . Only by some such method can early construction be secured . WATER POWER Along with the development of navigation should go every possible encouragement for the development of our water power . While steam . still plays a dominant part , this is more and more becoming an era of electricity . Once installed , the cost is moderate , has not tended greatly to increase , and is entirely free from the unavoidable dirt and disagreeable features attendant upon the burning of coal . Every facility should be extended for the connection of the various units into a superpower plant , capable at all times of a current increasing uniformity over the entire system . RAILROADS The railroads throughout the country are in a fair state of prosperity . Their service is good and their supply of cars is abundant . Their condition would be improved and the public better served by a system of consolidations . I recommend that the Congress authorize such consolidations tinder the supervision of the Interstate Commerce Commission , with power to approve or disapprove when proposed parts are excluded or new parts added . I am informed that the railroad managers and their employees have reached a substantial agreement as to what legislation is necessary to regulate and improve their relationship . Whenever they bring forward such proposals , which seem sufficient also to protect the interests of the public , they should be enacted into law . It is gratifying to report that both the railroad managers and railroad employees are providing boards for the mutual adjustment of differences in harmony with the principles of conference , conciliation , and arbitration . The solution of their problems ought to be an example to all other industries . Those who ask the protections of civilization should be ready to use the methods of civilization . A strike in modern industry has many of the aspects of war in the modern world . It injures labor and it injures capital . If the industry involved is a basic one , it reduces the necessary economic surplus and , increasing the cost of living , it injures the economic welfare and general comfort of the whole people . It also involves a deeper cost . It tends to embitter and divide the community into warring classes and thus weakens the unity and power of our national life . Labor can make no permanent gains at the cost of the general welfare . All the victories won by organized labor in the past generation have been won through the support of public opinion . The manifest inclination of the managers and employees of the railroads to adopt a policy of action in harmony with these principles marks a new epoch in our industrial life . OUTLYING POSSESSIONS The time has come for careful investigation of the expenditures and success of the laws by which we have undertaken to administer our outlying possessions . A very large amount of money is being expended for administration in Alaska . It appears so far out of proportion to the number of inhabitants and the amount of production as to indicate cause for thorough investigation . Likewise consideration should be given to the experience under the law which governs the Philippines . From such reports as reach me there are indications that more authority should be given to the Governor General , so that he will not be so dependent upon the local legislative body to render effective our efforts to set an example of the , , sound administration and good government , which is so necessary for the preparation of the Philippine people for self government under ultimate independence . If they are to be trained in these arts , it is our duty to provide for them the best that there is . RETIREMENT OF JUDGES The act of March 3 , 1911 , ought to be amended so that the term of years of service of judges of any court of the United States requisite for retirement with pay shall 6e computed to include not only continuous but aggregate service . MOTHERAID The Government ought always to be alert on the side of the humanities . It Ought to encourage provisions for economic justice for the defenseless . It ought to extend its relief through its national and local agencies , as may be appropriate in each case , to the suffering and the needy . It ought to be charitable . Although more than 40 of our States have enacted measures in aid of motherhood , the District of Columbia is still without such a law . A carefully considered bill will be presented , which ought to have most thoughtful consideration in order that the Congress may adopt a measure which will be hereafter a model for all parts of the Union . CIVIL SERVICE In 1883 the Congress passed the civil service act , which from a modest beginning of 14 , 000 employees has grown until there are now 425 , 000 in the classified service . This has removed the clerical force of the Nation from the wasteful effects of the spoils system and made it more stable and efficient . The time has come to consider classifying all postmasters , collectors of customs , collectors of internal revenue , and prohibition agents , by an act covering in those at present in office , except when otherwise provided by Executive order . The necessary statistics are now being gathered to form the basis of a valuation of the civil service retirement fund based on current conditions of the service . It is confidently expected that this valuation will be completed in time to be made available to the Congress during the present session . It will afford definite knowledge of existing , and future liabilities under the present law and determination OF liabilities under any proposed change in the present law . We should have this information before creating further obligations for retirement annuities which will become liabilities to be met in the future from the money of the taxpayer . The classification act of 1923 , with the subsequent legislative action providing for adjustment of the compensation of field service positions , has operated materially to improve employment conditions in the Federal service . The administration of the act is in the hands of an impartial board , functioning without the necessity of a direct appropriation . It would be inadvisable at this time to place in other hands the administration of this act . FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION The proper function of the Federal Trade Commission is to supervise and correct those practices in commerce which are detrimental to fair competition . In this it performs a useful function and should be continued and supported . It was designed also to be a help to honest business . In my message to the Sixty eighth Congress I recommended that changes in the procedure then existing be made . Since then the commission by its own action has reformed its rules , giving greater speed and economy in the disposal of its cases and full opportunity for those accused to be heard . These changes are improvements and , if necessary , provision should be made for their permanency . REORGANIZATION No final action has yet been taken on the measure providing for the reorganization of the various departments . I therefore suggest that this measure , which will be of great benefit to the efficient and economical administration of the business of the Government , be brought forward and passed . THE NEGRO Nearly one tenth of our population consists of the Negro race . The progress which they have made in all the arts of civilization in the last 60 years is almost beyond belief . Our country has no more loyal citizens . But they do still need sympathy , kindness , and helpfulness . They need reassurance that the requirements of the Government and society to deal out to them even handed justice will be met . They should be protected from all violence and supported in the peaceable enjoyment of the fruits of their labor . Those who do violence to them should be punished for their crimes . No other course of action is worthy of the American people . Our country has many elements in its population , many different modes of thinking and living , all of which are striving in their own way to be loyal to the high ideals worthy of the crown of American citizenship . It is fundamental of our institutions that they seek to guarantee to all our inhabitants the right to live their own lives under the protection of the public law . This does not include any license to injure others materially , physically , morally , to Incite revolution , or to violate the established customs which have long bad the sanction of enlightened society . But it does mean the full right to liberty and equality before the law without distinction of race or creed . This condition can not be granted to others , or enjoyed by ourselves , except by the application of the principle of broadest tolerance . Bigotry is only another name for slavery . It reduces to serfdom not only those against whom it is directed , but also those who seek to apply it . An enlarged freedom can only be secured by the application of the golden rule . No other utterance ever presented such a practical rule of life . CONCLUSION It is apparent that we are reaching into an era of great general prosperity . It will continue only so long as we shall use it properly . After all , there is but a fixed quantity of wealth in this country at any fixed time . The only way that we can all secure more of it is to create more . The element of time enters into production , If the people have sufficient moderation and contentment to be willing to improve their condition by the process of enlarging production , eliminating waste , and distributing equitably , a prosperity almost without limit lies before its . If the people are to be dominated by selfishness , seeking immediate riches by nonproductive speculation and by wasteful quarreling over the returns from industry , they will be confronted by the inevitable results of depression and privation . If they will continue industrious and thrifty , contented with fair wages and moderate profits , and the returns which accrue from tile development of oar natural resources , our prosperity will extend itself indefinitely . In all your deliberations you should remember that the purpose of legislation is to translate principles into action . It is an effort to have our country be better by doing better . Because the thoughts and ways of people are firmly fixed and not easily changed , the field within which immediate improvement can be secured is very narrow . Legislation can provide opportunity . Whether it is taken advantage of or not depends upon the people themselves . The Government of the United States has been created by the people . It is solely responsible to them . It will be most successful if it is conducted solely for their benefit . All its efforts would be of little avail unless they brought more justice , more enlightenment , more happiness and prosperity into the home . This means an opportunity to observe religion , secure education , and earn a living under a reign of law and order . It is the growth and improvement of the material and spiritual life of the Nation . We shall not be able to gain these ends merely by our own action . If they come at all , it will be because we have been willing to work in harmony with the abiding purpose of a Divine Providence .<speech_sep>