I have received the bill entitled An act making appropriations for the repair , preservation , and completion of certain public works heretofore commenced under the authority of law . It reaches me in the expiring hours of the session , and time does not allow full opportunity for examining and considering its provisions or of stating at length the reasons which forbid me to give it my signature . It belongs to that class of measures which are commonly known as internal improvements by the General Government , and which from a very early period have been deemed of doubtful constitutionality and expediency , and have thus failed to obtain the approbation of successive Chief Magistrates . On such an examination of this bill as it has been in my power to make , I recognize in it certain provisions national in their character , and which , if they stood alone , it would be compatible with my convictions of public duty to assent to but at the same time , it embraces others which are merely local , and not , in my judgment , warranted by any safe or true construction of the Constitution . To make proper and sound discriminations between these different pro visions would require a deliberate discussion of general principles , as well as a careful scrutiny of details for the purpose of rightfully applying those principles to each separate item of appropriation . Public opinion with regard to the value and importance of internal improvements in the country is undivided . There is a disposition on all hands to have them prosecuted with energy and to see the benefits sought to be attained by them fully realized . The prominent point of difference between those who have been regarded as the friends of a system of internal improvements by the General Government and those adverse to such a system has been one of constitutional power , though more or less connected with considerations of expediency . My own judgment , it is well known , has on both grounds been opposed to a general system of internal improvements by the Federal Government . I have entertained the most serious doubts from the inherent difficulties of its application , as well as from past unsatisfactory experience , whether the power could be so exercised by the General Government as to render its use advantageous either to the country at large or effectual for the accomplishment of the object contemplated . I shall consider it incumbent on me to present to Congress at its next session a matured view of the whole subject , and to endeavor to define , approximately at least , and according to my own convictions , what appropriations of this nature by the General Government the great interests of the United States require and the Constitution will admit and sanction , in case no substitute should be devised capable of reconciling differences both of constitutionality and expediency . In the absence of the requisite means and time for duly considering the whole subject at present and discussing such possible substitute , it becomes necessary to return this bill to the House of Representatives , in which it originated , and for the reasons thus briefly submitted to the consideration of Congress to withhold from it my approval .<speech_sep>To the Senate of the United States I transmit to the Senate , for its consideration with a view to ratification , a treaty between the United States and the Mexican Republic , signed by the plenipotentiaries of the parties in the City of Mexico on the 30th of December last . Certain amendments are proposed to the instrument , as hereinafter specified , viz In order to make the duties and obligations stipulated in the second article reciprocal , it is proposed to add to that article the following And the Government of Mexico agrees that the stipulations contained in this article to be performed by the United States shall be reciprocal , and Mexico shall be under like obligations to the United States and the citizens thereof as those hereinabove imposed on the latter in favor of the Republic of Mexico and Mexican citizens . It is also recommended that for the third article of the original treaty the following shall be adopted as a substitute In consideration of the grants received by the United States and the obligations relinquished by the Mexican Republic pursuant to this treaty , the former agree to pay to the latter the sum of 15 , 000 , 000 in gold or silver coin at the Treasury at Washington , one fifth of the amount on the exchange of ratifications of the present treaty at Washington and the remaining four fifths in monthly installments of three millions each with interest at the rate of 6 per cent per annum until the whole be paid , the Government of the United States reserving the right to pay up the whole sum of fifteen millions at an earlier date , as may be to it convenient . The United States also agree to assume all the claims of their citizens against the Mexican Republic which may have arisen under treaty or the law of nations since the date of the signature of the treaty of Guadalupe , and the Mexican Republic agrees to exonerate the United States of America from all claims of Mexico or Mexican citizens which may have arisen under treaty or the law of nations since the date of the treaty of Guadalupe , so that each Government , in the most formal and effective manner , shall be exempted and exonerated of all such obligations to each other respectively . I also recommend that the eighth article be modified by striking out all after the word attempts in the twenty third line of that article . The part to be omitted is as follows They mutually and especially obligate themselves , in all cases of such lawless enterprises which may not have been prevented through the civil authorities before formation , to aid with the naval and military forces , on due notice being given by the aggrieved party of the aggressions of the citizens and subjects of the other , so that the lawless adventurers may be pursued and overtaken on the high seas , their elements of war destroyed , and the deluded captives held responsible in their persons and meet with the merited retribution inflicted by the laws of nations against all such disturbers of the peace and happiness of contiguous and friendly powers . It being understood that in all cases of successful pursuit and capture the delinquents so captured shall be judged and punished by the government of that nation to which the vessel capturing them may belong , conformably to the laws of each nation . At the close of the instrument it will also be advisable to substitute seventy eighth for seventy seventh year of the Independence of the United States .<speech_sep>Fellow Citizens of the Senate and of the House of Representatives The Constitution requires that the President shall from time to time not only recommend to the consideration of Congress such measures as he may judge necessary and expedient , but also that he shall give information to them of the state of the Union . To do this fully involves exposition of all matters in the actual condition of the country , domestic or foreign , which essentially concern the general welfare . While performing his constitutional duty in this respect , the President does not speak merely to express personal convictions , but as the executive minister of the Government , enabled by his position and called upon by his official obligations to scan with an impartial eye the interests of the whole and of every part of the United States . Of the condition of the domestic interests of the Union its agriculture , mines , manufactures , navigation , and commerce it is necessary only to say that the internal prosperity of the country , its continuous and steady advancement in wealth and population and in private as well as public well being , attest the wisdom of our institutions and the predominant spirit of intelligence and patriotism which , notwithstanding occasional irregularities of opinion or action resulting from popular freedom , has distinguished and characterized the people of America . In the brief interval between the termination of the last and the commencement of the present session of Congress the public mind has been occupied with the care of selecting for another constitutional term the President and Vice President of the United States . The determination of the persons who are of right , or contingently , to preside over the administration of the Government is under our system committed to the States and the people . We appeal to them , by their voice pronounced in the forms of law , to call whomsoever they will to the high post of Chief Magistrate . And thus it is that as the Senators represent the respective States of the Union and the members of the House of Representatives the several constituencies of each State , so the President represents the aggregate population of the United States . Their election of him is the explicit and solemn act of the sole sovereign authority of the Union . It is impossible to misapprehend the great principles which by their recent political action the people of the United States have sanctioned and announced . They have asserted the constitutional equality of each and all of the States of the Union as States they have affirmed the constitutional equality of each and all of the citizens of the United States as citizens , whatever their religion , wherever their birth or their residence they have maintained the inviolability of the constitutional rights of the different sections of the Union , and they have proclaimed their devoted and unalterable attachment to the Union and to the Constitution , as objects of interest superior to all subjects of local or sectional controversy , as the safeguard of the rights of all , as the spirit and the essence of the liberty , peace , and greatness of the Republic . In doing this they have at the same time emphatically condemned the idea of organizing in these United States mere geographical parties , of marshaling in hostile array toward each other the different parts of the country , North or South , East or West . Schemes of this nature , fraught with incalculable mischief , and which the considerate sense of the people has rejected , could have had countenance in no part of the country had they not been disguised by suggestions plausible in appearance , acting upon an excited state of the public mind , induced by causes temporary in their character and , it is to be hoped , transient in their influence . Perfect liberty of association for political objects and the widest scope of discussion are the received and ordinary conditions of government in our country . Our institutions , framed in the spirit of confidence in the intelligence and integrity of the people , do not forbid citizens , either individually or associated together , to attack by writing , speech , or any other methods short of physical force the Constitution and the very existence of the Union . Under the shelter of this great liberty , and protected by the laws and usages of the Government they assail , associations have been formed in some of the States of individuals who , pretending to seek only to prevent the spread of the institution of slavery into the present or future inchoate States of the Union , are really inflamed with desire to change the domestic institutions of existing States . To accomplish their objects they dedicate themselves to the odious task of depreciating the government organization which stands in their way and of calumniating with indiscriminate invective not only the citizens of particular States with whose laws they find fault , but all others of their fellow citizens throughout the country who do not participate with them in their assaults upon the Constitution , framed and adopted by our fathers , and claiming for the privileges it has secured and the blessings it has conferred the steady support and grateful reverence of their children . They seek an object which they well know to be a revolutionary one . They are perfectly aware that the change in the relative condition of the white and black races in the slaveholding States which they would promote is beyond their lawful authority that to them it is a foreign object that it can not be effected by any peaceful instrumentality of theirs that for them and the States of which they are citizens the only path to its accomplishment is through burning cities , and ravaged fields , and slaughtered populations , and all there is most terrible in foreign complicated with civil and servile war and that the first step in the attempt is the forcible disruption of a country embracing in its broad bosom a degree of liberty and an amount of individual and public prosperity to which there is no parallel in history , and substituting in its place hostile governments , driven at once and inevitably into mutual devastation and fratricidal carnage , transforming the now peaceful and felicitous brotherhood into a vast permanent camp of armed men like the rival monarchies of Europe and Asia . Well knowing that such , and such only , are the means and the consequences of their plans and purposes , they endeavor to prepare the people of the United States for civil war by doing everything in their power to deprive the Constitution and the laws of moral authority and to undermine the fabric of the Union by appeals to passion and sectional prejudice , by indoctrinating its people with reciprocal hatred , and by educating them to stand face to face as enemies , rather than shoulder to shoulder as friends . It is by the agency of such unwarrantable interference , foreign and domestic , that the minds of many otherwise good citizens have been so inflamed into the passionate condemnation of the domestic institutions of the Southern States as at length to pass insensibly to almost equally passion late hostility toward their fellow citizens of those States , and thus finally to fall into temporary fellowship with the avowed and active enemies of the Constitution . Ardently attached to liberty in the abstract , they do not stop to consider practically how the objects they would attain can be accomplished , nor to reflect that , even if the evil were as great as they deem it , they have no remedy to apply , and that it can be only aggravated by their violence and unconstitutional action . A question which is one of the most difficult of all the problems of social institution , political economy , and statesmanship they treat with unreasoning intemperance of thought and language . Extremes beget extremes . Violent attack from the North finds its inevitable consequence in the growth of a spirit of angry defiance at the South . Thus in the progress of events we had reached that consummation , which the voice of the people has now so pointedly rebuked , of the attempt of a portion of the States , by a sectional organization and movement , to usurp the control of the Government of the United States . I confidently believe that the great body of those who inconsiderately took this fatal step are sincerely attached to the Constitution and the Union . They would upon deliberation shrink with unaffected horror from any conscious act of disunion or civil war . But they have entered into a path which leads nowhere unless it be to civil war and disunion , and which has no other possible outlet . They have proceeded thus far in that direction in consequence of the successive stages of their progress having consisted of a series of secondary issues , each of which professed to be confined within constitutional and peaceful limits , but which attempted indirectly what few men were willing to do directly that is , to act aggressively against the constitutional rights of nearly one half of the thirty one States . In the long series of acts of indirect aggression , the first was the strenuous agitation by citizens of the Northern States , in Congress and out of it , of the question of Negro emancipation in the Southern States . The second step in this path of evil consisted of acts of the people of the Northern States , and in several instances of their governments , aimed to facilitate the escape of persons held to service in the Southern States and to prevent their extradition when reclaimed according to law and in virtue of express provisions of the Constitution . To promote this object , legislative enactments and other means were adopted to take away or defeat rights which the Constitution solemnly guaranteed . In order to nullify the then existing act of Congress concerning the extradition of fugitives from service , laws were enacted in many States forbidding their officers , under the severest penalties , to participate in the execution of any act of Congress whatever . In this way that system of harmonious cooperation between the authorities of the United States and of the several States , for the maintenance of their common institutions , which existed in the early years of the Republic was destroyed conflicts of jurisdiction came to be frequent , and Congress found itself compelled , for the support of the Constitution and the vindication of its power , to authorize the appointment of new officers charged with the execution of its acts , as if they and the officers of the States were the ministers , respectively , of foreign governments in a state of mutual hostility rather than fellow magistrates of a common country peacefully subsisting under the protection of one well constituted Union . Thus here also aggression was followed by reaction , and the attacks upon the Constitution at this point did but serve to raise up new barriers for its defense and security . The third stage of this unhappy sectional controversy was in connection with the organization of Territorial governments and the admission of new States into the Union . When it was proposed to admit the State of Maine , by separation of territory from that of Massachusetts , and the State of Missouri , formed of a portion of the territory ceded by France to the United States , representatives in Congress objected to the admission of the latter unless with conditions suited to particular views of public policy . The imposition of such a condition was successfully resisted but at the same period the question was presented of imposing restrictions upon the residue of the territory ceded by France . That question was for the time disposed of by the adoption of a geographical line of limitation . In this connection it should not be forgotten that when France , of her own accord , resolved , for considerations of the most farsighted sagacity , to cede Louisiana to the United States , and that accession was accepted by the United States , the latter expressly engaged that the inhabitants of the ceded territory shall be incorporated in the Union of the United States and admitted as soon as possible , according to the principles of the Federal Constitution , to the enjoyment of all the rights , advantages , and immunities of citizens of the United States and in the meantime they shall be maintained and protected in the free enjoyment of their liberty , property , and the religion which they profess that is to say , while it remains in a Territorial condition its inhabitants are maintained and protected in the free enjoyment of their liberty and property , with a right then to pass into the condition of States on a footing of perfect equality with the original States . The enactment which established the restrictive geographical line was acquiesced in rather than approved by the States of the Union . It stood on the statute book , however , for a number of years and the people of the respective States acquiesced in the reenactment of the principle as applied to the State of Texas , and it was proposed to acquiesce in its further application to the territory acquired by the United States from Mexico . But this proposition was successfully resisted by the representatives from the Northern States , who , regardless of the statute line , insisted upon applying restriction to the new territory generally , whether lying north or south of it , thereby repealing it as a legislative compromise , and , on the part of the North , persistently violating the compact , if compact there was . Thereupon this enactment ceased to have binding virtue in any sense , whether as respects the North or the South , and so in effect it was treated on the occasion of the admission of the State of California and the organization of the Territories of New Mexico , Utah , and Washington . Such was the state of this question when the time arrived for the organization of the Territories of Kansas and Nebraska . In the progress of constitutional inquiry and reflection it had now at length come to be seen clearly that Congress does not possess constitutional power to impose restrictions of this character upon any present or future State of the Union . In a long series of decisions , on the fullest argument and after the most deliberate consideration , the Supreme Court of the United States had finally determined this point in every form under which the question could arise , whether as affecting public or private rights in questions of the public domain , of religion , of navigation , and . of servitude . The several States of the Union are by force of the Constitution coequal in domestic legislative power . Congress can not change a law of domestic relation in the State of Maine no more can it in the State of Missouri . Any statute which proposes to do this is a mere nullity it takes away no right , it confers none . If it remains on the statute book unrepealed , it remains there only as a monument of error and a beacon of warning to the legislator and the statesman . To repeal it will be only to remove imperfection from the statutes , without affecting , either in the sense of permission , or of prohibition , the action of the States or of their citizens . Still , when the nominal restriction of this nature , already a dead letter in law , was in terms repealed by the last Congress , in a clause of the act organizing the Territories of Kansas and Nebraska , that repeal was made the occasion of a widespread and dangerous agitation . It was alleged that the original enactment being a compact of perpetual moral obligation , its repeal constituted an odious breach of faith . An act of Congress , while it remains unrepealed , more especially if it be constitutionally valid in the judgment of those public functionaries whose duty it is to pronounce on that point , is undoubtedly binding on the conscience of each good citizen of the Republic . But in what sense can it be asserted that the enactment in question was invested with perpetuity and entitled to the respect of a solemn Compact Between whom was the compact No distinct contending powers of the Government , no separate sections of the Union treating as such , entered into treaty stipulations on the subject . It was a mere clause of an act of Congress , and , like any other controverted matter of legislation , received its final shape and was passed by compromise of the conflicting opinions or sentiments of the members of Congress . But if it had moral authority over men s consciences , to whom did this authority attach Not to those of the North , who had repeatedly refused to confirm it by extension and who had zealously striven to establish other and incompatible regulations upon the subject . And if , as it thus appears , the supposed compact had no obligatory force as to the North , of course it could not have had any as to the South , for all such compacts must be mutual and of reciprocal obligation . It has not unfrequently happened that lawgivers , with undue estimation of the value of the law they give or in the view of imparting to it peculiar strength , make it perpetual in terms but they can not thus bind the conscience , the judgment , and the will of those who may succeed them , invested with similar responsibilities and clothed with equal authority . More careful investigation may prove the law to be unsound in principle . Experience may show it to be imperfect in detail and impracticable in execution . And then both reason and right combine not merely to justify but to require its repeal . The Constitution , supreme , as it is , over all the departments of the Government legislative , executive , and judicial is open to amendment by its very terms and Congress or the States may , in their discretion , propose amendment to it , solemn compact though it in truth is between the sovereign States of the Union . In the present instance a political enactment which had ceased to have legal power or authority of any kind was repealed . The position assumed that Congress had no moral right to enact such repeal was strange enough , and singularly so in view of the fact that the argument came from those who openly refused obedience to existing laws of the land , having the same popular designation and quality as . compromise acts nay , more , who unequivocally disregarded and condemned the most positive and obligatory injunctions of the Constitution itself , and sought by every means within their reach to deprive a portion of their fellow citizens of the equal enjoyment of those rights and privileges guaranteed alike to all by the fundamental compact of our Union . This argument against the repeal of the statute line in question was accompanied by another of congenial character and equally with the former destitute of foundation in reason and truth . It was imputed that the measure originated in the conception of extending the limits of slave labor beyond those previously assigned to it , and that such was its natural as well as intended effect and these baseless assumptions were made , in the Northern States , the ground of unceasing assault upon constitutional right . The repeal in terms of a statute , which was already obsolete and also null for unconstitutionality , could have no influence to obstruct or to promote the propagation of conflicting views of political or social institution . When the act organizing the Territories of Kansas and Nebraska was passed , the inherent effect upon that portion of the public domain thus opened to legal settlement was to admit settlers from all the States of the Union alike , each with his convictions of public policy and private interest , there to found , in their discretion , subject to such limitations as the Constitution and acts of Congress might prescribe , new States , hereafter to be admitted into the Union . It was a free field , open alike to all , whether the statute line of assumed restriction were repealed or not . That repeal did not open to free competition of the diverse opinions and domestic institutions a field which without such repeal would have been closed against them it found that field of competition already opened , in fact and in law . All the repeal did was to relieve the statute book of an objectionable enactment , unconstitutional in effect and injurious in terms to a large portion of the States . Is it the fact that in all the unsettled regions of the United States , if emigration be left free to act in this respect for itself , without legal prohibitions on either side , slave labor will spontaneously go everywhere in preference to free labor Is it the fact that the peculiar domestic institutions of the Southern States possess relatively so much of vigor that wheresoever an avenue is freely opened to all the world they will penetrate to the exclusion of those of the Northern States Is it the fact that the former enjoy , compared with the latter , such irresistibly superior vitality , independent of climate , soil , and all other accidental circumstances , as to be able to produce the supposed result in spite of the assumed moral and natural obstacles to its accomplishment and of the more numerous population of the Northern States The argument of those who advocate the enactment of new laws of restriction and condemn the repeal of old ones in effect avers that their particular views of government have no self extending or self sustaining power of their own , and will go nowhere unless forced by act of Congress . And if Congress do but pause for a moment in the policy of stern coercion if it venture to try the experiment of leaving men to judge for themselves what institutions will best suit them if it be not strained up to perpetual legislative exertion on this point if Congress proceed thus to act in the very spirit of liberty , it is at once charged with aiming to extend slave labor into all the new Territories of the United States . Of course these imputations on the intentions of Congress in this respect , conceived , as they were , in prejudice and disseminated in passion , are utterly destitute of any justification in the nature of things and contrary to all the fundamental doctrines and principles of civil liberty and self government . While , therefore , in general , the people of the Northern States have never at any time arrogated for the Federal Government the power to interfere directly with the domestic condition of persons in the Southern States , but , on the contrary , have disavowed all such intentions and have shrunk from conspicuous affiliation with those few who pursue their fanatical objects avowedly through the contemplated means of revolutionary change of the Government and with acceptance of the necessary consequences a civil and servile war yet many citizens have suffered themselves to be drawn into one evanescent political issue of agitation after another , appertaining to the same set of opinions , and which subsided as rapidly as they arose when it came to be seen , as it uniformly did , that they were incompatible with the compacts of the Constitution and the existence of the Union . Thus when the acts of some of the States to nullify the existing extradition law imposed upon Congress the duty of passing a new one , the country was invited by agitators to enter into party organization for its repeal but that agitation speedily ceased by reason of the impracticability of its object . So when the statute restriction upon the institutions of new States by a geographical line had been repealed , the country was urged to demand its restoration , and that project also died almost with its birth . Then followed the cry of alarm from the North against imputed Southern encroachmeats , which cry sprang in reality from the spirit of revolutionary attack on the domestic institutions of the South , and , after a troubled existence of a few months , has been rebuked by the voice of a patriotic people . Of this last agitation , one lamentable feature was that it was carried on at the immediate expense of the peace and happiness of the people of the Territory of Kansas . That was made the battlefield , not so much of opposing factions or interests within itself as of the conflicting passions of the whole people of the United States . Revolutionary disorder in Kansas had its origin in projects of intervention deliberately arranged by certain members of that Congress which enacted the law for the organization of the Territory and when propagandist colonization of Kansas had thus been undertaken in one section of the Union for the systematic promotion of its peculiar views of policy there ensued as a matter of course a counteraction with opposite views in other sections of the Union . In consequence of these and other incidents , many acts of disorder , it is undeniable , have been perpetrated in Kansas , to the occasional interruption rather than the permanent suspension of regular government . Aggressive and most reprehensible incursions into the Territory were undertaken both in the North and the South , and entered it on its northern border by the way of Iowa , as well as on the eastern by way of Missouri and there has existed within it a state of insurrection against the constituted authorities , not without countenance from inconsiderate persons in each of the great sections of the Union . But the difficulties in that Territory have been extravagantly exaggerated for purposes of political agitation elsewhere . The number and gravity of the acts of violence have been magnified partly by statements entirely untrue and partly by reiterated accounts of the same rumors or facts . Thus the Territory has been seemingly filled with extreme violence , when the whole amount of such acts has not been greater than what occasionally passes before us in single cities to the regret of all good citizens , but without being regarded as of general or permanent political consequence . Imputed irregularities in the elections had in Kansas , like occasional irregularities of the same description in the States , were beyond the sphere of action of the Executive . But incidents of actual violence or of organized obstruction of law , pertinaciously renewed from time to time , have been met as they occurred by such means as were available and as the circumstances required , and nothing of this character now remains to affect the general peace of the Union . The attempt of a part of the inhabitants of the Territory to erect a revolutionary government , though sedulously encouraged and supplied with pecuniary aid from active agents of disorder in some of the States , has completely failed . Bodies of armed men , foreign to the Territory , have been prevented from entering or compelled to leave it predatory bands , engaged in acts of rapine under cover of the existing political disturbances , have been arrested or dispersed , and every well disposed person is now enabled once more to devote himself in peace to the pursuits of prosperous industry , for the prosecution of which he undertook to participate in the settlement of the Territory . It affords me unmingled satisfaction thus to announce the peaceful condition of things in Kansas , especially considering the means to which it was necessary to have recourse for the attainment of the end , namely , the employment of a part of the military force of the United States . The withdrawal of that force from its proper duty of defending the country against foreign foes or the savages of the frontier to employ it for the suppression of domestic insurrection is , when the exigency occurs , a matter of the most earnest solicitude . On this occasion of imperative necessity it has been done with the best results , and my satisfaction in the attainment of such results by such means is greatly enhanced by the consideration that , through the wisdom and energy of the present executive of Kansas and the prudence , firmness , and vigilance of the military officers on duty there tranquillity has been restored without one drop of blood having been shed in its accomplishment by the forces of the United States . The restoration of comparative tranquillity in that Territory furnishes the means of observing calmly and appreciating at their just value the events which have occurred there and the discussions of which the government of the Territory has been the subject . We perceive that controversy concerning its future domestic institutions was inevitable that no human prudence , no form of legislation , no wisdom on the part of Congress , could have prevented it . It is idle to suppose that the particular provisions of their organic law were the cause of agitation . Those provisions were but the occasion , or the pretext , of an agitation which was inherent in the nature of things . Congress legislated upon the subject in such terms as were most consonant with the principle of popular sovereignty which underlies our Government . It could not have legislated otherwise without doing violence to another great principle of our institutions the imprescriptible right of equality of the several States . We perceive also that sectional interests and party passions have been the great impediment to the salutary operation of the organic principles adopted and the chief cause of the successive disturbances in Kansas . The assumption that because in the organization of the Territories of Nebraska and Kansas Congress abstained from imposing restraints upon them to which certain other Territories had been subject , therefore disorders occurred in the latter Territory , is emphatically contradicted by the fact that none have occurred in the former . Those disorders were not the consequence , in Kansas , of the freedom of self government conceded to that Territory by Congress , but of unjust interference on the part of persons not inhabitants of the Territory . Such interference , wherever it has exhibited itself by acts of insurrectionary character or of obstruction to process of law , has been repelled or suppressed by all the means which the Constitution and the laws place in the hands of the Executive . In those parts of the United States where , by reason of the inflamed state of the public mind , false rumors and misrepresentations have the greatest currency it has been assumed that it was the duty of the Executive not only to suppress insurrectionary movements in Kansas , but also to see to the regularity of local elections . It needs little argument to show that the President has no such power . All government in the United States rests substantially upon popular election . The freedom of elections is liable to be impaired by the intrusion of unlawful votes or the exclusion of lawful ones , by improper influences , by violence , or by fraud . But the people of the United States are themselves the all sufficient guardians of their own rights , and to suppose that they will not remedy in due season any such incidents of civil freedom is to suppose them to have ceased to be capable of self government . The President of the United States has not power to interpose in elections , to see to their freedom , to canvass their votes , or to pass upon their legality in the Territories any more than in the States . If he had such power the Government might be republican in form , but it would be a monarchy in fact and if he had undertaken to exercise it in the case of Kansas he would have been justly subject to the charge of usurpation and of violation of the dearest rights of the people of the United States . Unwise laws , equally with irregularities at elections , are in periods of great excitement the occasional incidents of even the freest and best political institutions but all experience demonstrates that in a country like ours , where the right of self constitution exists in the completest form , the attempt to remedy unwise legislation by resort to revolution is totally out of place , inasmuch as existing legal institutions afford more prompt and efficacious means for the redress of wrong . I confidently trust that now , when the peaceful condition of Kansas affords opportunity for calm reflection and wise legislation , either the legislative assembly of the Territory or Congress will see that no act shall remain on its statute book violative of the provisions of the Constitution or subversive of the great objects for which that was ordained and established , and will take all other necessary steps to assure to its inhabitants the enjoyment , without obstruction or abridgment , of all the constitutional rights , privileges , and immunities of citizens of the United States , as contemplated by the organic law of the Territory . Full information in relation to recent events in this Territory will be found in the documents communicated herewith from the Departments of State and War . I refer you to the report of the Secretary of the Treasury for particular information concerning the financial condition of the Government and the various branches of the public service connected with the Treasury Department . During the last fiscal year the receipts from customs were for the first time more than 64 , 000 , 000 , and from all sources 73 , 918 , 141 , which , with the balance on hand up to the 1st of July , 1855 , made the total resources of the year amount to 92 , 850 , 117 . The expenditures , including 3 , 000 , 000 in execution of the treaty with Mexico and excluding sums paid on account of the public debt , amounted to 60 , 172 , 401 , and including the latter to 72 , 948 , 792 , the payment on this account having amounted to 12 , 776 , 390 . On the 4th of March , 1853 , the amount of the public debt was 69 , 129 , 937 . There was a subsequent increase of 2 , 750 , 000 for the debt of Texas , making a total of 71 , 879 , 937 . Of this the sum of 45 , 525 , 319 , including premium , has been discharged , reducing the debt to 30 , 963 , 909 , all which might be paid within a year without embarrassing the public service , but being not yet due and only redeemable at the option of the holder , can not be pressed to payment by the Government . On examining the expenditures of the last five years it will be seen that the average , deducting payments on account of the public debt and 10 , 000 , 000 paid by treaty to Mexico , has been but about 48 , 000 , 000 . It is believed that under an economical administration of the Government the average expenditure for the ensuing five years will not exceed that sum , unless extraordinary occasion for its increase should occur . The acts granting bounty lands will soon have been executed , while the extension of our frontier settlements will cause a continued demand for lands and augmented receipts , probably , from that source . These considerations will justify a reduction of the revenue from customs so as not to exceed forty eight or fifty million dollars . I think the exigency for such reduction is imperative , and again urge it upon the consideration of Congress . The amount of reduction , as well as the manner of effecting it , are questions of great and general interest , it being essential to industrial enterprise and the public prosperity , as well as the dictate of obvious justice , that the burden of taxation be made to rest as equally as possible upon all classes and all sections and interests of the country . I have heretofore recommended to your consideration the revision of the revenue laws , prepared under the direction of the Secretary of the Treasury , and also legislation upon some special questions affecting the business of that Department , more especially the enactment of a law to punish the abstraction of official books or papers from the files of the Government and requiring all such books and papers and all other public property to be turned over by the outgoing officer to his successor of a law requiring disbursing officers to deposit all public money in the vaults of the Treasury or in other legal depositories , where the same are conveniently accessible , and a law to extend existing penal provisions to all persons who may become possessed of public money by deposit or otherwise and who shall refuse or neglect on due demand to pay the same into the Treasury . I invite your attention anew to each of these objects . The Army during the past year has been so constantly employed against hostile Indians in various quarters that it can scarcely be said , with propriety of language , to have been a peace establishment . Its duties have been satisfactorily performed , and we have reason to expect as a result of the year s operations greater security to the frontier inhabitants than has been hitherto enjoyed . Extensive combinations among the hostile Indians of the Territories of Washington and Oregon at one time threatened the devastation of the newly formed settlements of that remote portion of the country . From recent information we are permitted to hope that the energetic and successful operations conducted there will prevent such combinations in future and secure to those Territories an opportunity to make steady progress in the development of their agricultural and mineral resources . Legislation has been recommended by me on previous occasions to cure defects in the existing organization and to increase the efficiency of the Army , and further observation has but served to confirm me in the views then expressed and to enforce on my mind the conviction that such measures are not only proper , but necessary . I have , in addition , to invite the attention of Congress to a change of policy in the distribution of troops and to the necessity of providing a more rapid increase of the military armament . For details of these and other subjects relating to the Army I refer to the report of the Secretary of War . The condition of the Navy is not merely satisfactory , but exhibits the most gratifying evidences of increased vigor . As it is comparatively small , it is more important that it should be as complete as possible in all the elements of strength that it should be efficient in the character of its officers , in the zeal and discipline of its men , in the reliability of its ordnance , and in the capacity of its ships . In all these various qualities the Navy has made great progress within the last few years . The execution of the law of Congress of February 28 , 1855 , to promote the efficiency of the Navy , has been attended by the most advantageous results . The law for promoting discipline among the men is found convenient and salutary . The system of granting an honorable discharge to faithful seamen on the expiration of the period of their enlistment and permitting them to reenlist after a leave of absence of a few months without cessation of pay is highly beneficial in its influence . The apprentice system recently adopted is evidently destined to incorporate into the service a large number of our countrymen , hitherto so difficult to procure . Several hundred American boys are now on a three years cruise in our national vessels and will return well trained seamen . In the Ordnance Department there is a decided and gratifying indication of progress , creditable to it and to the country . The suggestions of the Secretary of the Navy in regard to further improvement in that branch of the service I commend to your favorable action . The new frigates ordered by Congress are now afloat and two of them in active service . They are superior models of naval architecture , and with their formidable battery add largely to public strength and security . I concur in the views expressed by the Secretary of the Department in favor of a still further increase of our naval force . The report of the Secretary of the Interior presents facts and views in relation to internal affairs over which the supervision of his Department extends of much interest and importance . The aggregate sales of the public lands during the last fiscal year amount to 9 , 227 , 878 acres , for which has been received the sum of 8 , 821 , 414 . During the same period there have been located with military scrip and land warrants and for other purposes 30 , 100 , 230 acres , thus making a total aggregate of 39 , 328 , 108 acres . On the 30th of September last surveys had been made of 16 , 873 , 699 acres , a large proportion of which is ready for market . The suggestions in this report in regard to the complication and progressive expansion of the business of the different bureaus of the Department , to the pension system , to the colonization of Indian tribes , and the recommendations in relation to various improvements in the District of Columbia are especially commended to your consideration . The report of the Postmaster General presents fully the condition of that Department of the Government . Its expenditures for the last fiscal year were 10 , 407 , 868 and its gross receipts 7 , 620 , 801 , making an excess of expenditure over receipts of 2 , 787 , 046 . The deficiency of this Department is thus 744 , 000 greater than for the year ending June 30 , 1853 . Of this deficiency 330 , 000 is to be attributed to the additional compensation allowed to postmasters by the act of Congress of June 22 , 1854 . The mail facilities in every part of the country have been very much increased in that period , and the large addition of railroad service , amounting to 7 , 908 miles , has added largely to the cost of transportation . The inconsiderable augmentation of the income of the Post Office Department under the reduced rates of postage and its increasing expenditures must for the present make it dependent to some extent upon the Treasury for support . The recommendations of the Postmaster General in relation to the abolition of the franking privilege and his views on the establishment of mail steamship lines deserve the consideration of Congress . I also call the special attention of Congress to the statement of the Postmaster General respecting the sums now paid for the transportation of mails to the Panama Railroad Company , and commend to their early and favorable consideration the suggestions of that officer in relation to new contracts for mail transportation upon that route , and also upon the Tehuantepec and Nicaragua routes . The United States continue in the enjoyment of amicable relations with all foreign powers . When my last annual message was transmitted to Congress two subjects of controversy , one relating to the enlistment of soldiers in this country for foreign service and the other to Central America , threatened to disturb the good understanding between the United States and Great Britain . Of the progress and termination of the former question you were informed at the time , and the other is now in the way of satisfactory adjustment . The object of the convention between the United States and Great Britain of the 19th of April , 1850 , was to secure for the benefit of all nations the neutrality and the common use of any transit way or interoceanic communication across the Isthmus of Panama which might be opened within the limits of Central America . The pretensions subsequently asserted by Great Britain to dominion or control over territories in or near two of the routes , those of Nicaragua and Honduras , were deemed by the United States not merely incompatible with the main object of the treaty , but opposed even to its express stipulations . Occasion of controversy on this point has been removed by an additional treaty , which our minister at London has concluded , and which will be immediately submitted to the Senate for its consideration . Should the proposed supplemental arrangement be concurred in by all the parties to be affected by it , the objects contemplated by the original convention will have been fully attained . The treaty between the United States and Great Britain of the 5th of June , 1854 , which went into effective operation in 1855 , put an end to causes of irritation between the two countries , by securing to the United States the right of fishery on the coast of the British North American Provinces , with advantages equal to those enjoyed by British subjects . Besides the signal benefits of this treaty to a large class of our citizens engaged in a pursuit connected to no inconsiderable degree with our national prosperity and strength , it has had a favorable effect upon other interests in the provision it made for reciprocal freedom of trade between the United States and the British Provinces in America . The exports of domestic articles to those Provinces during the last year amounted to more than 22 , 000 , 000 , exceeding those of the preceding year by nearly 7 , 000 , 000 and the imports therefrom during the same period amounted to more than twenty one million , an increase of six million upon those of the previous year . The improved condition of this branch of our commerce is mainly attributable to the above mentioned treaty . Provision was made in the first article of that treaty for a commission to designate the mouths of rivers to which the common right of fishery on the coast of the United States and the British Provinces was not to extend . This commission has been employed a part of two seasons , but without much progress in accomplishing the object for which it was instituted , in consequence of a serious difference of opinion between the commissioners , not only as to the precise point where the rivers terminate , but in many instances as to what constitutes a river . These difficulties , however , may be overcome by resort to the umpirage provided for by the treaty . The efforts perseveringly prosecuted since the commencement of my Administration to relieve our trade to the Baltic from the exaction of Sound dues by Denmark have not yet been attended with success . Other governments have also sought to obtain a like relief to their commerce , and Denmark was thus induced to propose an arrangement to all the European powers interested in the subject , and the manner in which her proposition was received warranting her to believe that a satisfactory arrangement with them could soon be concluded , she made a strong appeal to this Government for temporary suspension of definite action on its part , in consideration of the embarrassment which might result to her European negotiations by an immediate adjustment of the question with the United States . This request has been acceded to upon the condition that the sums collected after the 16th of June last and until the 16th of June next from vessels and cargoes belonging to our merchants are to be considered as paid under protest and subject to future adjustment . There is reason to believe that an arrangement between Denmark and the maritime powers of Europe on the subject will be soon concluded , and that the pending negotiation with the United States may then be resumed and terminated in a satisfactory manner . With Spain no new difficulties have arisen , nor has much progress been made in the adjustment of pending ones . Negotiations entered into for the purpose of relieving our commercial intercourse with the island of Cuba of some of its burdens and providing for the more speedy settlement of local disputes growing out of that intercourse have not yet been attended with any results . Soon after the commencement of the late war in Europe this Government submitted to the consideration of all maritime nations two principles for the security of neutral commerce one that the neutral flag should cover enemies goods , except articles contraband of war , and the other that neutral property on board merchant vessels of belligerents should be exempt from condemnation , with the exception of contraband articles . These were not presented as new rules of international law , having been generally claimed by neutrals , though not always admitted by belligerents . One of the parties to the war Russia , as well as several neutral powers , promptly acceded to these propositions , and the two other principal belligerents Great Britain and France having consented to observe them for the present occasion , a favorable opportunity seemed to be presented for obtaining a general recognition of them , both in Europe and America . But Great Britain and France , in common with most of the States of Europe , while forbearing to reject , did not affirmatively act upon the overtures of the United States . While the question was in this position the representatives of Russia , France , Great Britain , Austria , Prussia , Sardinia , and Turkey , assembled at Paris , took into consideration the subject of maritime rights , and put forth a declaration containing the two principles which this Government had submitted nearly two years before to the consideration of maritime powers , and adding thereto the following propositions Privateering is and remains abolished , and Blockades in order to be binding must be effective that is to say , maintained by a force sufficient really to prevent access to the coast of the enemy and to the declaration thus composed of four points , two of which had already been proposed by the United States , this Government has been invited to accede by all the powers represented at Paris except Great Britain and Turkey . To the last of the two additional propositions that in relation to blockades there can certainly be no objection . It is merely the definition of what shall constitute the effectual investment of a blockaded place , a definition for which this Government has always contended , claiming indemnity for losses where a practical violation of the rule thus defined has been injurious to our commerce . As to the remaining article of the declaration of the conference of Paris , that privateering is and remains abolished , I certainly can not ascribe to the powers represented in the conference of Paris any but liberal and philanthropic views in the attempt to change the unquestionable rule of maritime law in regard to privateering . Their proposition was doubtless intended to imply approval of the principle that private property upon the ocean , although it might belong to the citizens of a belligerent state , should be exempted from capture and had that proposition been so framed as to give full effect to the principle , it would have received my ready assent on behalf of the United States . But the measure proposed is inadequate to that purpose . It is true that if adopted private property upon the ocean would be withdrawn from one mode of plunder , but left exposed meanwhile to another mode , which could be used with increased effectiveness . The aggressive capacity of great naval powers would be thereby augmented , while the defensive ability of others would be reduced . Though the surrender of the means of prosecuting hostilities by employing privateers , as proposed by the conference of Paris , is mutual in terms , yet in practical effect it would be the relinquishment of a right of little value to one class of states , but of essential importance to another and a far larger class . It ought not to have been anticipated that a measure so inadequate to the accomplishment of the proposed object and so unequal in its operation would receive the assent of all maritime powers . Private property would be still left to the depredations of the public armed cruisers . I have expressed a readiness on the part of this Government to accede to all the principles contained in the declaration of the conference of Paris provided that the one relating to the abandonment of privateering can be so amended as to effect the object for which , as is presumed , it was intended the immunity of private property on the ocean from hostile capture . To effect this object , it is proposed to add to the declaration that privateering is and remains abolished the following amendment And that the private property of subjects and citizens of a belligerent on the high seas shall be exempt from seizure by the public armed vessels of the other belligerent , except it be contraband . This amendment has been presented not only to the powers which have asked our assent to the declaration to abolish privateering , but to all other maritime states . Thus far it has not been rejected by any , and is favorably entertained by all which have made any communication in reply . Several of the governments regarding with favor the proposition of the United States have delayed definitive action upon it only for the purpose of consulting with others , parties to the conference of Paris . I have the satisfaction of stating , however , that the Emperor of Russia has entirely and explicitly approved of that modification and will cooperate in endeavoring to obtain the assent of other powers , and that assurances of a similar purport have been received in relation to the disposition of the Emperor of the French . The present aspect of this important subject allows us to cherish the hope that a principle so humane in its character , so just and equal in its operation , so essential to the prosperity of commercial nations , and so consonant to the sentiments of this enlightened period of the world will command the approbation of all maritime powers , and thus be incorporated into the code of international law . My views on the subject are more fully set forth in the reply of the Secretary of State , a copy of which is herewith transmitted , to the communications on the subject made to this Government , especially to the communication of France . The Government of the United States has at all times regarded with friendly interest the other States of America , formerly , like this country , European colonies , and now independent members of the great family of nations . But the unsettled condition of some of them , distracted by frequent revolutions , and thus incapable of regular and firm internal administration , has tended to embarrass occasionally our public intercourse by reason of wrongs which our citizens suffer at their hands , and which they are slow to redress . Unfortunately , it is against the Republic of Mexico , with which it is our special desire to maintain a good understanding , that such complaints are most numerous and although earnestly urged upon its attention , they have not as yet received the consideration which this Government had a right to expect . While reparation for past injuries has been withheld , others have been added . The political condition of that country , however , has been such as to demand forbearance on the part of the United States . I shall continue my efforts to procure for the wrongs of our citizens that redress which is indispensable to the continued friendly association of the two Republics . The peculiar condition of affairs in Nicaragua in the early part of the present year rendered it important that this Government should have diplomatic relations with that State . Through its territory had been opened one of the principal thoroughfares across the isthmus connecting North and South America , on which a vast amount of property was transported and to which our citizens resorted in great numbers in passing between the Atlantic and Pacific coasts of the United States . The protection of both required that the existing power in that State should be regarded as a responsible Government , and its minister was accordingly received . But he remained here only a short time . Soon thereafter the political affairs of Nicaragua underwent unfavorable change and became involved in much uncertainty and confusion . Diplomatic representatives from two contending parties have been recently sent to this Government , but with the imperfect information possessed it was not possible to decide which was the Government de facto , and , awaiting further developments , I have refused to receive either . Questions of the most serious nature are pending between the United States and the Republic of New Granada . The Government of that Republic undertook a year since to impose tonnage duties on foreign vessels in her ports , but the purpose was resisted by this Government as being contrary to existing treaty stipulations with the United States and to rights conferred by charter upon the Panama Railroad Company , and was accordingly refurbished at that time , it being admitted that our vessels were entitled to be exempt from tonnage duty in the free ports of Panama and Aspinwall . But the purpose has been recently revived on the part of New Granada by the enactment of a law to subject vessels visiting her ports to the tonnage duty of 40 cents per ton , and although the law has not been put in force , yet the right to enforce it is still asserted and may at any time be acted on by the Government of that Republic . The Congress of New Granada has also enacted a law during the last year which levies a tax of more than 3 on every pound of mail matter transported across the Isthmus . The sum thus required to be paid on the mails of the United States would be nearly 2 , 000 , 000 annually in addition to the large sum payable by contract to the Panama Railroad Company . If the only objection to this exaction were the exorbitancy of its amount , it could not be submitted to by the United States . The imposition of it , however , would obviously contravene our treaty with New Granada and infringe the contract of that Republic with the Panama Railroad Company . The law providing for this tax was by its terms to take effect on the 1st of September last , but the local authorities on the Isthmus have been induced to suspend its execution and to await further instructions on the subject from the Government of the Republic . I am not yet advised of the determination of that Government . If a measure so extraordinary in its character and so clearly contrary to treaty stipulations and the contract rights of the Panama Railroad Company , composed mostly of American citizens , should be persisted in , it will be the duty of the United States to resist its execution . I regret exceedingly that occasion exists to invite your attention to a subject of still graver import in our relations with the Republic of New Granada . On the 15th day of April last a riotous assemblage of the inhabitants of Panama committed a violent and outrageous attack on the premises of the railroad company and the passengers and other persons in or near the same , involving the death of several citizens of the United States , the pillage of many others , and the destruction of a large amount of property belonging to the railroad company . I caused full investigation of that event to be made , and the result shows satisfactorily that complete responsibility for what occurred attaches to the Government of New Granada . I have therefore demanded of that Government that the perpetrators of the wrongs in question should be punished that provision should be made for the families of citizens of the United States who were killed , with full indemnity for the property pillaged or destroyed . The present condition of the Isthmus of Panama , in so far as regards the security of persons and property passing over it , requires serious consideration . Recent incidents tend to show that the local authorities can not be relied on to maintain the public peace of Panama , and there is just ground for apprehension that a portion of the inhabitants are meditating further outrages , without adequate measures for the security and protection of persons or property having been taken , either by the State of Panama or by the General Government of New Granada . Under the guaranties of treaty , citizens of the United States have , by the outlay of several million dollars , constructed a railroad across the Isthmus , and it has become the main route between our Atlantic and Pacific possessions , over which multitudes of our citizens and a vast amount of property are constantly passing to the security and protection of all which and the continuance of the public advantages involved it is impossible for the Government of the United States to be indifferent . I have deemed the danger of the recurrence of scenes of lawless violence in this quarter so imminent as to make it my duty to station a part of our naval force in the harbors of Panama and Aspinwall , in order to protect the persons and property of the citizens of the United States in those ports and to insure to them safe passage across the Isthmus . And it would , in my judgment , be unwise to withdraw the naval force now in those ports until , by the spontaneous action of the Republic of New Granada or otherwise , some adequate arrangement shall have been made for the protection and security of a line of interoceanic communication , so important at this time not to the United States only , but to all other maritime states , both of Europe and America . Meanwhile negotiations have been instituted , by means of a special commission , to obtain from New Granada full indemnity for injuries sustained by our citizens on the Isthmus and satisfactory security for the general interests of the United States . In addressing to you my last annual message the occasion seems to me an appropriate one to express my congratulations , in view of the peace , greatness , and felicity which the United States now possess and enjoy . To point you to the state of the various Departments of the Government and of all the great branches of the public service , civil and military , in order to speak of the intelligence and the integrity which pervades the whole , would be to indicate but imperfectly the administrative condition of the country and the beneficial effects of that on the general welfare . Nor would it suffice to say that the nation is actually at peace at home and abroad that its industrial interests are prosperous that the canvas of its mariners whitens every sea , and the plow of its husbandmen is marching steadily onward to the bloodless conquest of the continent that cities and populous States are springing up , as if by enchantment , from the bosom of oar Western wilds , and that the courageous energy of our people is making of these United States the great Republic of the world . These results have not been attained without passing through trials and perils , by experience of which , and thus only , nations can harden into manhood . Our forefathers were trained to the wisdom which conceived and the courage which achieved independence by the circumstances which surrounded them , and they were thus made capable of the creation of the Republic . It devolved on the next generation to consolidate the work of the Revolution , to deliver the country entirely from the influences of conflicting transatlantic partialities or antipathies which attached to our colonial and Revolutionary history , and to organize the practical operation of the constitutional and legal institutions of the Union . To us of this generation remains the not less noble task of maintaining and extending the national power . We have at length reached that stage of our country s career in which the dangers to be encountered and the exertions to be made are the incidents , not of weakness , but of strength . In foreign relations we have to attemper our power to the less happy condition of other Republics in America and to place ourselves in the calmness and conscious dignity of right by the side of the greatest and wealthiest of the Empires of Europe . In domestic relations we have to guard against the shock of the discontents , the ambitions , the interests , and the exuberant , and therefore sometimes irregular , impulses of opinion or of action which are the natural product of the present political elevation , the self reliance , and the restless spirit of enterprise of the people of the United States . I shall prepare to surrender the Executive trust to my successor and retire to private life with sentiments of profound gratitude to the good Providence which during the period of my Administration has vouchsafed to carry the country through many difficulties , domestic and foreign , and which enables me to contemplate the spectacle of amicable and respectful relations between ours and all other governments and the establishment of constitutional order and tranquillity throughout the Union .<speech_sep>Fellow Citizens of the Senate and of the House of Representatives The past has been an eventful year , and will be hereafter referred to as a marked epoch in the history of the world . While we have been happily preserved from the calamities of war , our domestic prosperity has not been entirely uninterrupted . The crops in portions of the country have been nearly cut off . Disease has prevailed to a greater extent than usual , and the sacrifice of human life through casualties by sea and land is without parallel . But the pestilence has swept by , and restored salubrity invites the absent to their homes and the return of business to its ordinary channels . If the earth has rewarded the labor of the husbandman less bountifully than in preceding seasons , it has left him with abundance for domestic wants and a large surplus for exportation . In the present , therefore , as in the past , we find ample grounds for reverent thankfulness to the God of grace and providence for His protecting care and merciful dealings with us as a people . Although our attention has been arrested by painful interest in passing events , yet our country feels no more than the slight vibrations of the convulsions which have shaken Europe . As individuals we can not repress sympathy with human suffering nor regret for the causes which produce it as a nation we are reminded that whatever interrupts the peace or checks the prosperity of any part of Christendom tends more or less to involve our own . The condition of States is not unlike that of individuals they are mutually dependent upon each other . Amicable relations between them and reciprocal good will are essential for the promotion of whatever is desirable in their moral , social , and political condition . Hence it has been my earnest endeavor to maintain peace and friendly intercourse with all nations . The wise theory of this Government , so early adopted and steadily pursued , of avoiding all entangling alliances has hitherto exempted it from many complications in which it would otherwise have become involved . Notwithstanding this our clearly defined and well sustained course of action and our geographical position , so remote from Europe , increasing disposition has been manifested by some of its Governments to supervise and in certain respects to direct our foreign policy . In plans for adjusting the balance of power among themselves they have assumed to take us into account , and would constrain us to conform our conduct to their views . One or another of the powers of Europe has from time to time undertaken to enforce arbitrary regulations contrary in many respects to established principles of international law . That law the United States have in their foreign intercourse uniformly respected and observed , and they can not recognize any such interpolations therein as the temporary interests of others may suggest . They do not admit that the sovereigns of one continent or of a particular community of states can legislate for all others . Leaving the transatlantic nations to adjust their political system in the way they may think best for their common welfare , the independent powers of this continent may well assert the right to be exempt from all annoying interference on their part . Systematic abstinence from intimate political connection with distant foreign nations does not conflict with giving the widest range to our foreign commerce . This distinction , so clearly marked in history , seems to have been overlooked or disregarded by some leading foreign states . Our refusal to be brought within and subjected to their peculiar system has , I fear , created a jealous distrust of our conduct and induced on their part occasional acts of disturbing effect upon our foreign relations . Our present attitude and past course give assurances , which should not be questioned , that our purposes are not aggressive nor threatening to the safety and welfare of other nations . Our military establishment in time of peace is adapted to maintain exterior defenses and to preserve order among the aboriginal tribes within the limits of the Union . Our naval force is intended only for the protection of our citizens abroad and of our commerce , diffused , as it is , over all the seas of the globe . The Government of the United States , being essentially pacific in policy , stands prepared to repel invasion by the voluntary service of a patriotic people , and provides no permanent means of foreign aggression . These considerations should allay all apprehension that we are disposed to encroach on the rights or endanger the security of other states . Some European powers have regarded with disquieting concern the territorial expansion of the United States . This rapid growth has resulted from the legitimate exercise of sovereign rights belonging alike to all nations , and by many liberally exercised . Under such circumstances it could hardly have been expected that those among them which have within a comparatively recent period subdued and absorbed ancient kingdoms , planted their standards on every continent , and now possess or claim the control of the islands of every ocean as their appropriate domain would look with unfriendly sentiments upon the acquisitions of this country , in every instance honorably obtained , or would feel themselves justified in imputing our advancement to a spirit of aggression or to a passion for political predominance . Our foreign commerce has reached a magnitude and extent nearly equal to that of the first maritime power of the earth , and exceeding that of any other . Over this great interest , in which not only our merchants , but all classes of citizens , at least indirectly , are concerned , it is the duty of the executive and legislative branches of the Government to exercise a careful supervision and adopt proper measures for its protection . The policy which I had in view in regard to this interest embraces its future as well as its present security . Long experience has shown that , in general , when the principal powers of Europe are engaged in war the rights of neutral nations are endangered . This consideration led , in the progress of the War of our Independence , to the formation of the celebrated confederacy of armed neutrality , a primary object of which was to assert the doctrine that free ships make free goods , except in the case of articles contraband of war a doctrine which from the very commencement of our national being has been a cherished idea of the statesmen of this country . At one period or another every maritime power has by some solemn treaty stipulation recognized that principle , and it might have been hoped that it would come to be universally received and respected as a rule of international law . But the refusal of one power prevented this , and in the next great war which ensued that of the French Revolution it failed to be respected among the belligerent States of Europe . Notwithstanding this , the principle is generally admitted to be a sound and salutary one , so much so that at the commencement of the existing war in Europe Great Britain and France announced their purpose to observe it for the present not , however , as a recognized international fight , but as a mere concession for the time being . The cooperation , however , of these two powerful maritime nations in the interest of neutral rights appeared to me to afford an occasion inviting and justifying on the part of the United States a renewed effort to make the doctrine in question a principle of international law , by means of special conventions between the several powers of Europe and America . Accordingly , a proposition embracing not only the rule that free ships make free goods , except contraband articles , but also the less contested one that neutral property other than contraband , though on board enemy s ships , shall be exempt from confiscation , has been submitted by this Government to those of Europe and America . Russia acted promptly in this matter , and a convention was concluded between that country and the United States providing for the observance of the principles announced , not only as between themselves , but also as between them and all other nations which shall enter into like stipulations . None of the other powers have as yet taken final action on the subject . I am not aware , however , that any objection to the proposed stipulations has been made , but , on the contrary , they are acknowledged to be essential to the security of neutral commerce , and the only apparent obstacle to their general adoption is in the possibility that it may be encumbered by inadmissible conditions . The King of the Two Sicilies has expressed to our minister at Naples his readiness to concur in our proposition relative to neutral rights and to enter into a convention on that subject . The King of Prussia entirely approves of the project of a treaty to the same effect submitted to him , but proposes an additional article providing for the renunciation of privateering . Such an article , for most obvious reasons , is much desired by nations having naval establishments large in proportion to their foreign commerce . If it were adopted as an international rule , the commerce of a nation having comparatively a small naval force would be very much at the mercy of its enemy in case of war with a power of decided naval superiority . The bare statement of the condition in which the United States would be placed , after having surrendered the right to resort to privateers , in the event of war with a belligerent of naval supremacy will show that this Government could never listen to such a proposition . The navy of the first maritime power in Europe is at least ten times as large as that of the United States . The foreign commerce of the two countries is nearly equal , and about equally exposed to hostile depredations . In war between that power and the United States , without resort on our part to our mercantile marine the means of our enemy to inflict injury upon our commerce would be tenfold greater than ours to retaliate . We could not extricate our country from this unequal condition , with such an enemy , unless we at once departed from our present peaceful policy and became a great naval power . Nor would this country be better situated in war with one of the secondary naval powers . Though the naval disparity would be less , the greater extent and more exposed condition of our widespread commerce would give any of them a like advantage over us . The proposition to enter into engagements to forego a resort to privateers in case this country should be forced into war with a great naval power is not entitled to more favorable consideration than would be a proposition to agree not to accept the services of volunteers for operations on land . When the honor or the rights of our country require it to assume a hostile attitude , it confidently relies upon the patriotism of its citizens , not ordinarily devoted to the military profession , to augment the Army and the Navy so as to make them fully adequate to the emergency which calls them into action . The proposal to surrender the right to employ privateers is professedly founded upon the principle that private property of unoffending noncombatants , though enemies , should be exempt from the ravages of war but the proposed surrender goes but little way in carrying out that principle , which equally requires that such private property should not be seized or molested by national ships of war . Should the leading powers of Europe concur in proposing as a rule of international law to exempt private property upon the ocean from seizure by public armed cruisers as well as by privateers , the United States will readily meet them upon that broad ground . Since the adjournment of Congress the ratifications of the treaty between the United States and Great Britain relative to coast fisheries and to reciprocal trade with the British North American Provinces have been exchanged , and some of its anticipated advantages are already enjoyed by us , although its full execution was to abide certain acts of legislation not yet fully performed . So soon as it was ratified Great Britain opened to our commerce the free navigation of the river Lawrence and to our fishermen unmolested access to the shores and bays , from which they had been previously excluded , on the coasts of her North American Provinces in return for which she asked for the introduction free of duty into the ports of the United States of the fish caught on the same coast by British fishermen . This being the compensation stipulated in the treaty for privileges of the highest importance and value to the United States , which were thus voluntarily yielded before it became effective , the request seemed to me to be a reasonable one but it could not be acceded to from want of authority to suspend our laws imposing duties upon all foreign fish . In the meantime the Treasury Department issued a regulation for ascertaining the duties paid or secured by bonds on fish caught on the coasts of the British Provinces and brought to our markets by British subjects after the fishing grounds had been made fully accessible to the citizens of the United States . I recommend to your favorable consideration a proposition , which will be submitted to you , for authority to refund the duties and cancel the bonds thus received . The Provinces of Canada and New Brunswick have also anticipated the full operation of the treaty by legislative arrangements , respectively , to admit free of duty the products of the United States mentioned in the free list of the treaty and an arrangement similar to that regarding British fish has been made for duties now chargeable on the products of those Provinces enumerated in the same free list and introduced therefrom into the United States , a proposition for refunding which will , in my judgment , be in like manner entitled to your favorable consideration . There is difference of opinion between the United States and Great Britain as to the boundary line of the Territory of Washington adjoining the British possessions on the Pacific , which has already led to difficulties on the part of the citizens and local authorities of the two Governments I recommend that provision he made for a commission , to be joined by one on the part of Her Britannic Majesty , for the purpose of running and establishing the line in controversy . Certain stipulations of the third and fourth articles of the treaty concluded by the United States and Great Britain in 1846 , regarding possessory rights of the Hudsons Bay Company and property of the Pugets Sound Agricultural Company , have given rise to serious disputes , and it is important to all concerned that summary means of settling them amicably should be devised . I have reason to believe that an arrangement can be made on just terms for the extinguishment of the rights in question , embracing also the right of the Hudsons Bay Company to the navigation of the river Columbia and I therefore suggest to your consideration the expediency of making a contingent appropriation for that purpose . France was the early and efficient ally of the United States in their struggle for independence . From that time to the present , with occasional slight interruptions , cordial relations of friendship have existed between the Governments and people of the two countries . The kindly sentiments cherished alike by both nations have led to extensive social and commercial intercourse , which I trust will not be interrupted or checked by any casual event of an apparently unsatisfactory character . The French consul at San Francisco was not long since brought into the United States district court at that place by compulsory process as a witness in favor of another foreign consul , in violation , as the French Government conceives , of his privileges under our consular convention with France . There being nothing in the transaction which could imply any disrespect to France or its consul , such explanation has been made as , I hope , will be satisfactory . Subsequently misunderstanding arose on the subject of the French Government having , as it appeared , abruptly excluded the American minister to Spain from passing through France on his way from London to Madrid . But that Government has unequivocally disavowed any design to deny the right of transit to the minister of the United States , and after explanations to this effect he has resumed his journey and actually returned through France to Spain . I herewith lay before Congress the correspondence on this subject between our envoy at Paris and the minister of foreign relations of the French Government . The position of our affairs with Spain remains as at the close of the last session . Internal agitation , assuming very nearly the character of political revolution , has recently convulsed that country . The late ministers were violently expelled from power , and men of very different views in relation to its internal affairs have succeeded . Since this change there has been no propitious opportunity to resume and press on negotiations for the adjustment of serious questions of difficulty between the Spanish Government and the United States . There is reason to believe that our minister will find the present Government more favorably inclined than the preceding to comply with our just demands and to make suitable arrangements for restoring harmony and preserving peace between the two countries . Negotiations are pending with Denmark to discontinue the practice of levying tolls on our vessels and their cargoes passing through the Sound . I do not doubt that we can claim exemption therefrom as a matter of right . It is admitted on all hands that this exaction is sanctioned , not by the general principles of the law of nations , but only by special conventions which most of the commercial nations have entered into with Denmark . The fifth article of our treaty of 1826 with Denmark provides that there shall not be paid on the vessels of the United States and their cargoes when passing through the Sound higher duties than those of the most favored nations . This may be regarded as an implied agreement to submit to the tolls during the continuance of the treaty , and consequently may embarrass the assertion of our right to be released therefrom . There are also other provisions in the treaty which ought to be modified . It was to remain in force for ten years and until one year after either party should give notice to the other of intention to terminate it . I deem it expedient that the contemplated notice should be given to the Government of Denmark . The naval expedition dispatched about two years since for the purpose of establishing relations with the Empire of Japan has been ably and skillfully conducted to a successful termination by the officer to whom it was intrusted . A treaty opening certain of the ports of that populous country has been negotiated , and in order to give full effect thereto it only remains to exchange ratifications and adopt requisite commercial regulations . The treaty lately concluded between the United States and Mexico settled some of our most embarrassing difficulties with that country , but numerous claims upon it for wrongs and injuries to our citizens remained unadjusted , and many new eases have been recently added to the former list of grievances . Our legation has been earnest in its endeavors to obtain from the Mexican Government a favorable consideration of these claims , but hitherto without success . This failure is probably in some measure to be ascribed to the disturbed condition of that country . It has been my anxious desire to maintain friendly relations with the Mexican Republic and to cause its rights and territories to be respected , not only by our citizens , but by foreigners who have resorted to the United States for the purpose of organizing hostile expeditions against some of the States of that Republic . The defenseless condition in which its frontiers have been left has stimulated lawless adventurers to embark in these enterprises and greatly increased the difficulty of enforcing our obligations of neutrality . Regarding it as my solemn duty to fulfill efficiently these obligations not only toward Mexico , but other foreign nations , I have exerted all the powers with which I am invested to defeat such proceedings and bring to punishment those who by taking a part therein violated our laws . The energy and activity of our civil and military authorities have frustrated the designs of those who meditated expeditions of this character except in two instances . One of these , composed of foreigners , was at first countenanced and aided by the Mexican Government itself , it having been deceived as to their real object . The other , small in number , eluded the vigilance of the magistrates at San Francisco and succeeded in reaching the Mexican territories but the effective measures taken by this Government compelled the abandonment of the undertaking . The commission to establish the new line between the United States and Mexico , according to the provisions of the treaty of the 30th of December last , has been organized , and the work is already commenced . Our treaties with the Argentine Confederation and with the Republics of Uruguay and Paraguay secure to us the free navigation of the river La Plata and some of its larger tributaries , but the same success has not attended our endeavors to open the Amazon . The reasons in favor of the free use of that river I had occasion to present fully in a former message , and , considering the cordial relations which have long existed between this Government and Brazil , it may be expected that pending negotiations will eventually reach a favorable result . Convenient means of transit between the several parts of a country are not only desirable for the objects of commercial and personal communication , but essential to its existence under one government . Separated , as are the Atlantic and Pacific coasts of the United States , by the whole breadth of the continent , still the inhabitants of each are closely bound together by community of origin and institutions and by strong attachment to the Union . Hence the constant and increasing intercourse and vast interchange of commercial productions between these remote divisions of the Republic . At the present time the most practicable and only , commodious routes for communication between them are by the way of the isthmus of Central America . It is the duty of the Government to secure these avenues against all danger of interruption . In relation to Central America , perplexing questions existed between the United States and Great Britain at the time of the cession of California . These , as well as questions which subsequently arose concerning interoceanic communication across the Isthmus , were , as it was supposed , adjusted by the treaty of April 19 , 1850 , but , unfortunately , they have been reopened by serious misunderstanding as to the import of some or its provisions , a readjustment of which is now under consideration . Our minister at London has made strenuous efforts to accomplish this desirable object , but has not yet found it possible to bring the negotiations to a termination . As incidental to these questions , I deem it proper to notice an occurrence which happened in Central America near the close of the last session of Congress . So soon as the necessity was perceived of establishing interoceanic communications across the Isthmus a company was organized , under the authority of the State of Nicaragua , but composed for the most part of citizens of the United States , for the purpose of opening such a transit way by the river San Juan and Lake Nicaragua , which soon became an eligible and much used route in the transportation of our citizens and their property between the Atlantic and Pacific . Meanwhile , and in anticipation of the completion and importance of this transit way , a number of adventurers had taken possession of the old Spanish port at the mouth of the river San Juan in open defiance of the State or States of Central America , which upon their becoming independent had rightfully succeeded to the local sovereignty and jurisdiction of Spain . These adventurers undertook to change the name of the place from San Juan del Norte to Greytown , and though at first pretending to act as the subjects of the fictitious sovereign of the Mosquito Indians , they subsequently repudiated the control of any power whatever , assumed to adopt a distinct political organization , and declared themselves an independent sovereign state . If at some time a faint hope was entertained that they might become a stable and respectable community , that hope soon vanished . They proceeded to assert unfounded claims to civil jurisdiction over Punta Arenas , a position on the opposite side of the river San Juan , which was in possession , under a title wholly independent of them , of citizens of the United States interested in the Nicaragua Transit Company , and which was indispensably necessary to the prosperous operation of that route across the Isthmus . The company resisted their groundless claims , whereupon they proceeded to destroy some of its buildings and attempted violently to dispossess it . At a later period they organized a strong force for the purpose of demolishing the establishment at Punta Arenas , but this mischievous design was defeated by the interposition of one of our ships of war at that time in the harbor of San Juan . Subsequently to this , in May last , a body of men from Greytown crossed over to Punta Arenas , arrogating authority to arrest on the charge of murder a captain of one of the steamboats of the Transit Company . Being well aware that the claim to exercise jurisdiction there would be resisted then , as it had been on previous occasions , they went prepared to assert it by force of arms . Our minister to Central America happened to be present on that occasion . Believing that the captain of the steamboat was innocent for he witnessed the transaction on which the charge was founder , and believing also that the intruding party , having no jurisdiction over the place where they proposed to make the arrest , would encounter desperate resistance if they persisted in their purpose , he interposed , effectually , to prevent violence and bloodshed . The American minister afterwards visited Greytown , and whilst he was there a mob , including certain of the so called public functionaries of the place , surrounded the house in which he was , avowing that they had come to arrest him by order of some person exercising the chief authority . While parleying with them he was wounded by a missile from the crowd . A boat dispatched from the American steamer Northern Light to release him from the perilous situation in which he was understood to be was fired into by the town guard and compelled to return . These incidents , together with the known character of the population of Greytown and their excited state , induced just apprehensions that the lives and property of our citizens at Punta Arenas would be in imminent danger after the departure of the steamer , with her passengers , for New York , unless a guard was left for their protection . For this purpose , and in order to insure the safety of passengers and property passing over the route , a temporary force was organized , at considerable expense to the United States , for which provision was made at the last session of Congress . This pretended community , a heterogeneous assemblage gathered from various countries , and composed for the most part of blacks and persons of mixed blood , had previously given other indications of mischievous and dangerous propensities . Early in the same month property was clandestinely abstracted from the depot of the Transit Company and taken to Greytown . The plunderers obtained shelter there and their pursuers were driven back by its people , who not only protected the wrongdoers and shared the plunder , but treated with rudeness and violence those who sought to recover their property . Such , in substance , are the facts submitted to my consideration , and proved by trustworthy evidence . I could not doubt that the case demanded the interposition of this Government . Justice required that reparation should be made for so many and such gross wrongs , and that a course of insolence and plunder , tending directly to the insecurity of the lives of numerous travelers and of the rich treasure belonging to our citizens passing over this transit way , should be peremptorily arrested . Whatever it might be in other respects , the community in question , in power to do mischief , was not despicable . It was well provided with ordnance , small arms , and ammunition , and might easily seize on the unarmed boats , freighted with millions of property , which passed almost daily within its reach . It did not profess to belong to any regular government , and had , in fact , no recognized dependence on or connection with anyone to which the United States or their injured citizens might apply for redress or which could be held responsible in any way for the outrages committed . Not standing before the world in the attitude of an organized political society , being neither competent to exercise the rights nor to discharge the obligations of a government , it was , in fact , a marauding establishment too dangerous to be disregarded and too guilty to pass unpunished , and yet incapable of being treated in any other way than as a piratical resort of outlaws or a camp of savages depredating on emigrant trains or caravans and the frontier settlements of civilized states . Seasonable notice was given to the people of Greytown that this Government required them to repair the injuries they had done to our citizens and to make suitable apology for their insult of our minister , and that a ship of war would be dispatched thither to enforce compliance with these demands . But the notice passed unheeded . Thereupon a commander of the Navy , in charge of the sloop of war Cyane , was ordered to repeat the demands and to insist upon a compliance therewith . Finding that neither the populace nor those assuming to have authority over them manifested any disposition to make the required reparation , or even to offer excuse for their conduct , he warned them by a public proclamation that if they did not give satisfaction within a time specified he would bombard the town . By this procedure he afforded them opportunity to provide for their personal safety . To those also who desired to avoid loss of property in the punishment about to be inflicted on the offending town he furnished the means of removing their effects by the boats of his own ship and of a steamer which he procured and tendered to them for that purpose . At length , perceiving no disposition on the part of the town to comply with his requisitions , he appealed to the commander of Her Britannic Majesty s schooner Bermuda , who was seen to have intercourse and apparently much influence with the leaders among them , to interpose and persuade them to take some course calculated to save the necessity of resorting to the extreme measure indicated in his proclamation but that officer , instead of acceding to the request , did nothing more than to protest against the contemplated bombardment . No steps of any sort were taken by the people to give the satisfaction required . No individuals , if any there were , who regarded themselves as not responsible for the misconduct of the community adopted any means to separate themselves from the fate of the guilty . The several charges on which the demands for redress were founded had been publicly known to all for some time , and were again announced to them . They did not deny any of these charges they offered no explanation , nothing in extenuation of their conduct , but contumaciously refused to hold any intercourse with the commander of the Cyane . By their obstinate silence they seemed rather desirous to provoke chastisement than to escape it . There is ample reason to believe that this conduct of wanton defiance on their part is imputable chiefly to the delusive idea that the American Government would be deterred from punishing them through fear of displeasing a formidable foreign power , which they presumed to think looked with complacency upon their aggressive and insulting deportment toward the United States . The Cyane at length fired upon the town . Before much injury had been done the fire was twice suspended in order to afford opportunity for an arrangement , but this was declined . Most of the buildings of the place , of little value generally , were in the sequel destroyed , but , owing to the considerate precautions taken by our naval commander , there was no destruction of life . When the Cyane was ordered to Central America , it was confidently hoped and expected that no occasion would arise for a resort to violence and destruction of property and loss of life . Instructions to that effect were given to her commander and no extreme act would have been requisite had not the people themselves , by their extraordinary conduct in the affair , frustrated all the possible mild measures for obtaining satisfaction . A withdrawal from the place , the object of his visit entirely defeated , would under the circumstances in which the commander of the Cyane found himself have been absolute abandonment of all claim of our citizens for indemnification and submissive acquiescence in national indignity . It would have encouraged in these lawless men a spirit of insolence and rapine most dangerous to the lives and property of our citizens at Punta Arenas , and probably emboldened them to grasp at the treasures and valuable merchandise continually passing over the Nicaragua route . It certainly would have been most satisfactory to me if the objects of the Cyane s mission could have been consummated without any act of public force , but the arrogant contumacy of the offenders rendered it impossible to avoid the alternative either to break up their establishment or to leave them impressed with the idea that they might persevere with impunity in a career of insolence and plunder . This transaction has been the subject of complaint on the part of some foreign powers , and has been characterized with more of harshness than of justice . If comparisons were to be instituted , it would not be difficult to present repeated instances in the history of states standing in the very front of modern civilization where communities far less offending and more defenseless than Greytown have been chastised with much greater severity , and where not cities only have been laid in ruins , but human life has been recklessly sacrificed and the blood of the innocent made profusely to mingle with that of the guilty . Passing from foreign to domestic affairs , your attention is naturally directed to the financial condition of the country , always a subject of general interest . For complete and exact information regarding the finances and the various branches of the public service connected therewith I refer you to the report of the Secretary of the Treasury , from which it will appear that the amount of revenue during the last fiscal year from all sources was 73 , 549 , 705 , and that the public expenditures for the same period , exclusive of payments on account of the public debt , amounted to 51 , 018 , 249 . During the same period the payments made in redemption of the public debt , including interest and premium , amounted to 24 , 336 , 380 . To the sum total of the receipts of that year is to be added a balance remaining in the Treasury at the commencement thereof , amounting to 21 , 942 , 892 and at the close of the same year a corresponding balance , amounting to 20 , 137 , 967 , of receipts above expenditures also remained in the Treasury . Although , in the opinion of the Secretary of the Treasury , the receipts of the current fiscal year are not likely to equal in amount those of the last , yet they will undoubtedly exceed the amount of expenditures by at least 15 , 000 , 000 . I shall therefore continue to direct that the surplus revenue be applied , so far as it can be judiciously and economically done , to the reduction of the public debt , the amount of which at the commencement of the last fiscal year was 67 , 340 , 628 of which there had been paid on the 20th day of November , 1854 , the sum of 22 , 365 , 172 , leaving a balance of outstanding public debt of only 44 , 975 , 456 , redeemable at different periods within fourteen years . There are also remnants of other Government stocks , most of which are already due , and on which the interest has ceased , but which have not yet been presented for payment , amounting to 233 , 179 . This statement exhibits the fact that the annual income of the Government greatly exceeds the amount of its public debt , which latter remains unpaid only because the time of payment has not yet matured , and it can not be discharged at once except at the option of public creditors , who prefer to retain the securities of the United States and the other fact , not less striking , that the annual revenue from all sources exceeds by many millions of dollars the amount needed for a prudent and economical administration of the Government . The estimates presented to Congress from the different Executive Departments at the last session amounted to 38 , 406 , 581 and the appropriations made to the sum of 58 , 116 , 958 . Of this excess of appropriations over estimates , however , more than twenty millions was applicable to extraordinary objects , having no reference to the usual annual expenditures . Among these objects was embraced ten millions to meet the third article of the treaty between the United States and Mexico so that , in fact , for objects of ordinary expenditure the appropriations were limited to considerably less than 40 , 000 , 000 . I therefore renew my recommendation for a reduction of the duties on imports . The report of the Secretary of the Treasury presents a series of tables showing the operation of the revenue system for several successive years and as the general principle of reduction of duties with a view to revenue , and not protection , may now be regarded as the settled policy of the country , I trust that little difficulty will be encountered in settling the details of a measure to that effect . In connection with this subject I recommend a change in the laws , which recent experience has shown to be essential to the protection of the Government . There is no express provision of law requiring the records and papers of a public character of the several officers of the Government to be left in their offices for the use of their successors , nor any provision declaring it felony on their part to make false entries in the books or return false accounts . In the absence of such express provision by law , the outgoing officers in many instances have claimed and exercised the right to take into their own possession important books and papers , on the ground that these were their private property , and have placed them beyond the reach of the Government . Conduct of this character , brought in several instances to the notice of the present Secretary of the Treasury , naturally awakened his suspicion , and resulted in the disclosure that at four ports namely , Oswego , Toledo , Sandusky , and Milwaukee the Treasury had , by false entries , been defrauded within the four years next preceding March , 1853 , of the sum of 198 , 000 . The great difficulty with which the detection of these frauds has been attended , in consequence of the abstraction of books and papers by the retiring officers , and the facility with which similar frauds in the public service may be perpetrated render the necessity of new legal enactments in the respects above referred to quite obvious . For other material modifications of the revenue laws which seem to me desirable , I refer you to the report of the Secretary of the Treasury . That report and the tables which accompany it furnish ample proofs of the solid foundation on which the financial security of the country rests and of the salutary influence of the independent treasury system upon commerce and all monetary operations . The experience of the last year furnishes additional reasons , I regret to say , of a painful character , for the recommendation heretofore made to provide for increasing the military force employed in the Territory inhabited by the Indians . The settlers on the frontier have suffered much from the incursions of predatory bands , and large parties of emigrants to our Pacific possessions have been massacred with impunity . The recurrence of such scenes can only be prevented by teaching these wild tribes the power of and their responsibility to the United States . From the garrisons of our frontier posts it is only possible to detach troops in small bodies and though these have on all occasions displayed a gallantry and a stern devotion to duty which on a larger field would have commanded universal admiration , they have usually suffered severely in these conflicts with superior numbers , and have sometimes been entirely sacrificed . All the disposable force of the Army is already employed on this service , and is known to be wholly inadequate to the protection which should be afforded . The public mind of the country has been recently shocked by savage atrocities committed upon defenseless emigrants and border settlements , and hardly less by the unnecessary destruction of valuable lives where inadequate detachments of troops have undertaken to furnish the needed aid . Without increase of the military force these scenes will be repeated , it is to be feared , on a larger scale and with more disastrous consequences . Congress , I am sure , will perceive that the plainest duties and responsibilities of Government are involved in this question , and I doubt not that prompt action may be confidently anticipated when delay must be attended by such fearful hazards . The bill of the last session providing for an increase of the pay of the rank and file of the Army has had beneficial results , not only in facilitating enlistments , but in obvious improvement in the class of men who enter the service . I regret that corresponding consideration was not bestowed on the officers , who , in view of their character and services and the expenses to which they are necessarily subject , receive at present what is , in my judgment , inadequate compensation . The valuable services constantly rendered by the Army and its inestimable importance as the nucleus around which the volunteer forces of the nation can promptly gather in the hour of danger , sufficiently attest the wisdom of maintaining a military peace establishment but the theory of our system and the wise practice under it require that any proposed augmentation in time of peace be only commensurate with our extended limits and frontier relations . While scrupulously adhering to this principle , I find in existing circumstances a necessity for increase of our military force , and it is believed that four new regiments , two of infantry and two of mounted men , will be sufficient to meet the present exigency . If it were necessary carefully to weigh the cost in a case of such urgency , it would be shown that the additional expense would be comparatively light . With the increase of the numerical force of the Army should , I think , be combined certain measures of reform in its organic arrangement and administration . The present organization is the result of partial legislation often directed to special objects and interests and the laws regulating rank and command , having been adopted many years ago from the British code , are not always applicable to our service . It is not surprising , therefore , that the system should be deficient in the symmetry and simplicity essential to the harmonious working of its several parts , and require a careful revision . The present organization , by maintaining large staff corps or departments , separates many officers from that close connection with troops and those active duties in the field which are deemed requisite to qualify them for the varied responsibilities of high command . Were the duties of the Army staff mainly discharged by officers detached from their regiments , it is believed that the special service would be equally well performed and the discipline and instruction of the Army be improved . While due regard to the security of the rights of officers and to the nice sense of honor which should be cultivated among them would seem to exact compliance with the established rule of promotion in ordinary cases , still it can hardly be doubted that the range of promotion by selection , which is now practically confined to the grade of general officers , might be somewhat extended with benefit to the public service . Observance of the rule of seniority sometimes leads , especially in time of peace , to the promotion of officers who , after meritorious and even distinguished service , may have been rendered by age or infirmity incapable of performing active duty , and whose advancement , therefore , would tend to impair the efficiency of the Army . Suitable provision for this class of officers , by the creation of a retired list , would remedy the evil without wounding the just pride of men who by past services have established a claim to high consideration . In again commending this measure to the favorable consideration of Congress I would suggest that the power of placing officers on the retired list be limited to one year . The practical operation of the measure would thus be tested , and if after the lapse of years there should be occasion to renew the provision it can be reproduced with any improvements which experience may indicate . The present organization of the artillery into regiments is liable to obvious objections . The service of artillery is that of batteries , and an organization of batteries into a corps of artillery would be more consistent with the nature of their duties . A large part of the troops now called artillery are , and have been , on duty as infantry , the distinction between the two arms being merely nominal . This nominal artillery in our service is disproportionate to the whole force and greater than the wants of the country demand . I therefore commend the discontinuance of a distinction which has no foundation in either the arms used or the character of the service expected to be performed . In connection with the proposition for the increase of the Army , I have presented these suggestions with regard to certain measures of reform as the complement of a system which would produce the happiest results from a given expenditure , and which , I hope , may attract the early attention and be deemed worthy of the approval of Congress . The recommendation of the Secretary of the Navy having reference to more ample provisions for the discipline and general improvement in the character of seamen and for the reorganization and gradual increase of the Navy I deem eminently worthy of your favorable consideration . The principles which have controlled our policy in relation to the permanent military force by sea and land are sound , consistent with the theory of our system , and should by no means be disregarded . But , limiting the force to the objects particularly set forth in the preceding part of this message , we should not overlook the present magnitude and prospective extension of our commercial marine , nor fail to give due weight to the fact that besides the 2 , 000 miles of Atlantic seaboard we have now a Pacific coast stretching from Mexico to the British possessions in the north , teeming with wealth and enterprise and demanding the constant presence of ships of war . The augmentation of the Navy has not kept pace with the duties properly and profitably assigned to it in time of peace , and it is inadequate for the large field of its operations , not merely in the present , but still more in the progressively increasing exigencies of the commerce of the United States . I cordially approve of the proposed apprentice system for our national vessels recommended by the Secretary of the Navy . The occurrence during the last few months of marine disasters of the most tragic nature , involving great loss of human life , has produced intense emotions of sympathy and sorrow throughout the country . It may well be doubted whether all these calamitous events are wholly attributable to the necessary and inevitable dangers of the sea . The merchants , mariners , and shipbuilders of the United States are , it is true , unsurpassed in far reaching enterprise , skill , intelligence , and courage by any others in the world . But with the increasing amount of our commercial tonnage in the aggregate and the larger size and improved equipment of the ships now constructed a deficiency in the supply of reliable seamen begins to be very seriously felt . The inconvenience may perhaps be met in part by due regulation for the introduction into our merchant ships of indented apprentices , which , while it would afford useful and eligible occupation to numerous young men , would have a tendency to raise the character of seamen as a class . And it is deserving of serious reflection whether it may not be desirable to revise the existing laws for the maintenance of discipline at sea , upon which the security of life and property on the ocean must to so great an extent depend . Although much attention has already been given by Congress to the proper construction and arrangement of steam vessels and all passenger ships , still it is believed that the resources of science and mechanical skill in this direction have not been exhausted . No good reason exists for the marked distinction which appears upon our statutes between the laws for protecting life and property at sea and those for protecting them on land . In most of the States severe penalties are provided to punish conductors of trains , engineers , and others employed in the transportation of persons by railway or by steamboats on rivers . Why should not the same principle be applied to acts of insubordination , cowardice , or other misconduct on the part of masters and mariners producing injury or death to passengers on the high seas , beyond the jurisdiction of any of the States , and where such delinquencies can be reached only by the power of Congress The whole subject is earnestly commended to your consideration . The report of the Postmaster General , to which you are referred for many interesting details in relation to this important and rapidly extending branch of the public service , shows that the expenditure of the year ending June 30 , 1854 , including 133 , 483 of balance due to foreign offices , amounted to 8 , 710 , 907 . The gross receipts during the same period amounted to 6 , 955 , 586 , exhibiting an expenditure over income of 1 , 755 , 321 and a diminution of deficiency as compared with the last year of 361 , 756 . The increase of the revenue of the Department for the year ending June 30 , 1854 , over the preceding year was 970 , 399 . No proportionate increase , however , can be anticipated for the current year , in consequence of the act of Congress of June 23 , 1854 , providing for increased compensation to all postmasters . From these statements it is apparent that the Post Office Department , instead of defraying its expenses according to the design at the time of its creation , is now , and under existing laws must continue to be , to no small extent a charge upon the general Treasury . The cost of mail transportation during the year ending June 30 , 1854 , exceeds the cost of the preceding year by 495 , 074 . I again call your attention to the subject of mail transportation by ocean steamers , and commend the suggestions of the Postmaster General to your early attention . During the last fiscal year 11 , 070 , 935 acres of the public lands have been surveyed and 8 , 190 , 017 acres brought into market . The number of acres sold is 7 , 035 , 735 and the amount received therefor 9 , 285 , 533 . The aggregate amount of lands sold , located under military scrip and land warrants , selected as swamp lands by States , and by locating under grants for roads is upward of 23 , 000 , 000 acres . The increase of lands sold over the previous year is about 6 , 000 , 000 acres , and the sales during the first two quarters of the current year present the extraordinary result of five and a half millions sold , exceeding by nearly 4 , 000 , 000 acres the sales of the corresponding quarters of the last year . The commendable policy of the Government in relation to setting apart public domain for those who have served their country in time of war is illustrated by the fact that since 1790 no less than 30 , 000 , 000 acres have been applied to this object . The suggestions which I submitted in my annual message of last year in reference to grants of land in aid of the construction of railways were less full and explicit than the magnitude of the subject and subsequent developments would seem to render proper and desirable . Of the soundness of the principle then asserted with regard to the limitation of the power of Congress I entertain no doubt , but in its application it is not enough that the value of lands in a particular locality may be enhanced that , in fact , a larger amount of money may probably be received in a given time for alternate sections than could have been realized for all the sections without the impulse and influence of the proposed improvements . A prudent proprietor looks beyond limited sections of his domain , beyond present results to the ultimate effect which a particular line of policy is likely to produce upon all his possessions and interests . The Government , which is trustee in this matter for the people of the States , is bound to take the same wise and comprehensive view . Prior to and during the last session of Congress upward of 30 , 000 , 000 acres of land were withdrawn from public sale with a view to applications for grants of this character pending before Congress . A careful review of the whole subject led me to direct that all such orders be abrogated and the lands restored to market , and instructions were immediately given to that effect . The applications at the last session contemplated the construction of more than 5 , 000 miles of road and grants to the amount of nearly 20 , 000 , 000 acres of the public domain . Even admitting the right on the part of Congress to be unquestionable , is it quite clear that the proposed grants would be productive of good , and not evil The different projects are confined for the present to eleven States of this Union and one Territory . The reasons assigned for the grants show that it is proposed to put the works speedily in process of construction . When we reflect that since the commencement of the construction of railways in the United States , stimulated , as they have been , by the large dividends realized from the earlier works over the great thoroughfares and between the most important points of commerce and population , encouraged by State legislation , and pressed forward by the amazing energy of private enterprise , only 17 , 000 miles have been completed in all the States in a quarter of a century when we see the crippled condition of many works commenced and prosecuted upon what were deemed to be sound principles and safe calculations when we contemplate the enormous absorption of capital withdrawn from the ordinary channels of business , the extravagant rates of interest at this moment paid to continue operations , the bankruptcies , not merely in money but in character , and the inevitable effect upon finances generally , can it be doubted that the tendency is to run to excess in this matter Is it wise to augment this excess by encouraging hopes of sudden wealth expected to flow from magnificent schemes dependent upon the action of Congress Does the spirit which has produced such results need to be stimulated or checked Is it not the better rule to leave all these works to private enterprise , regulated and , when expedient , aided by the cooperation of States If constructed by private capital the stimulant and the check go together and furnish a salutary restraint against speculative schemes and extravagance . But it is manifest that with the most effective guards there is danger of going too fast and too far . We may well pause before a proposition contemplating a simultaneous movement for the construction of railroads which in extent will equal , exclusive of the great Pacific road and all its branches , nearly one third of the entire length of such works now completed in the United States , and which can not cost with equipments less than 150 , 000 , 000 . The dangers likely to result from combinations of interests of this character can hardly be overestimated . But independently of these considerations , where is the accurate knowledge , the comprehensive intelligence , which shall discriminate between the relative claims of these twenty eight proposed roads in eleven States and one Territory Where will you begin and where end If to enable these companies to execute their proposed works it is necessary that the aid of the General Government be primarily given , the policy will present a problem so comprehensive in its bearings and so important to our political and social well being as to claim in anticipation the severest analysis . Entertaining these views , I recur with satisfaction to the experience and action of the last session of Congress as furnishing assurance that the subject will not fail to elicit a careful reexamination and rigid scrutiny . It was my intention to present on this occasion some suggestions regarding internal improvements by the General Government , which want of time at the close of the last session prevented my submitting on the return to the House of Representatives with objections of the bill entitled An act making appropriations for the repair , preservation , and completion of certain public works heretofore commenced under the authority of law but the space in this communication already occupied with other matter of immediate public exigency constrains me to reserve that subject for a special message , which will be transmitted to the two Houses of Congress at an early day . The judicial establishment of the United States requires modification , and certain reforms in the manner of conducting the legal business of the Government are also much needed but as I have addressed you upon both of these subjects at length before , I have only to call your attention to the suggestions then made . My former recommendations in relation to suitable provision for various objects of deep interest to the inhabitants of the District of Columbia are renewed . Many of these objects partake largely of a national character , and are important independently of their relation to the prosperity of the only considerable organized community in the Union entirely unrepresented in Congress . I have thus presented suggestions on such subjects as appear to me to be of particular interest or importance , and therefore most worthy of consideration during the short remaining period allotted to the labors of the present Congress . Our forefathers of the thirteen united colonies , in acquiring their independence and in rounding this Republic of the United States of America , have devolved upon us , their descendants , the greatest and the most noble trust ever committed to the hands of man , imposing upon all , and especially such as the public will may have invested for the time being with political functions , the most sacred obligations . We have to maintain inviolate the great doctrine of the inherent right of popular self government to reconcile the largest liberty of the individual citizen with complete security of the public order to render cheerful obedience to the laws of the land , to unite in enforcing their execution , and to frown indignantly on all combinations to resist them to harmonize a sincere and ardent devotion to the institutions of religions faith with the most universal religious toleration to preserve the rights of all by causing each to respect those of the other to carry forward every social improvement to the uttermost limit of human perfectibility , by the free action of mind upon mind , not by the obtrusive intervention of misapplied force to uphold the integrity and guard the limitations of our organic law to preserve sacred from all touch of usurpation , as the very palladium of our political salvation , the reserved rights and powers of the several States and of the people to cherish with loyal fealty and devoted affection this Union , as the only sure foundation on which the hopes of civil liberty rest to administer government with vigilant integrity and rigid economy to cultivate peace and friendship with foreign nations , and to demand and exact equal justice from all , but to do wrong to none to eschew intermeddling with the national policy and the domestic repose of other governments , and to repel it from our own never to shrink from war when the rights and the honor of the country call us to arms , but to cultivate in preference the arts of peace , seek enlargement of the rights of neutrality , and elevate and liberalize the intercourse of nations and by such just and honorable means , and such only , whilst exalting the condition of the Republic , to assure to it the legitimate influence and the benign authority of a great example amongst all the powers of Christendom . Under the solemnity of these convictions the blessing of Almighty God is earnestly invoked to attend upon your deliberations and upon all the counsels and acts of the Government , to the end that , with common zeal and common efforts , we may , in humble submission to the divine will , cooperate for the promotion of the supreme good of these United States .<speech_sep>Circumstances have occurred to disturb the course of governmental organization in the Territory of Kansas and produce there a condition of things which renders it incumbent on me to call your attention to the subject and urgently to recommend the adoption by you of such measures of legislation as the grave exigencies of the case appear to require . A brief exposition of the circumstances referred to and of their causes will be necessary to the full understanding of the recommendations which it is proposed to submit . The act to organize the Territories of Nebraska and Kansas was a manifestation of the legislative opinion of Congress on two great points of constitutional construction One , that the designation of the boundaries of a new Territory and provision for its political organization and administration as a Territory are measures which of right fall within the powers of the General Government and the other , that the inhabitants of any such Territory , considered as an inchoate State , are entitled , in the exercise of self government , to determine for themselves what shall be their own domestic institutions , subject only to the Constitution and the laws duly enacted by Congress under it and to the power of the existing States to decide , according to the provisions and principles of the Constitution , at what time the Territory shall be received as a State into the Union . Such are the great political rights which are solemnly declared and affirmed by that act . Based upon this theory , the act of Congress defined for each Territory the outlines of republican government , distributing public authority among lawfully created agents executive , judicial , and legislative to be appointed either by the General Government or by the Territory . The legislative functions were intrusted to a council and a house of representatives , duly elected , and empowered to enact all the local laws which they might deem essential to their prosperity , happiness , and good government . Acting in the same spirit , Congress also defined the persons who were in the first instance to be considered as the people of each Territory , enacting that every free white male inhabitant of the same above the age of 21 years , being an actual resident thereof and possessing the qualifications hereafter described , should be entitled to vote at the first election and be eligible to any office within the Territory , but that the qualification of voters and holding office at all subsequent elections should be such as might be prescribed by the legislative assembly provided , however , that the right of suffrage and of holding office should be exercised only by citizens of the United States and those who should have declared on oath their intention to become such and have taken an oath to support the Constitution of the United States and the provisions of the act and provided further , that no officer , soldier , seaman , or marine or other person in the Army or Navy of the United States or attached to troops in their service should be allowed to vote or hold office in either Territory by reason of being on service therein . Such of the public officers of the Territories as by the provisions of the act were to be appointed by the General Government , including the governors , were appointed and commissioned in due season , the law having been enacted on the 30th of May , 1854 , and the commission of the governor of the Territory of Nebraska being dated on the 2d day of August , 1854 , and of the Territory of Kansas on the 29th day of June , 1854 . Among the duties imposed by the act on the governors was that of directing and superintending the political organization of the respective Territories . The governor of Kansas was required to cause a census or enumeration of the inhabitants and qualified voters of the several counties and districts of the Territory to be taken by such persons and in such mode as he might designate and appoint to appoint and direct the time and places of holding the first elections , and the manner of conducting them , both as to the persons to superintend such elections and the returns thereof to declare the number of the members of the council and the house of representatives for each county or district to declare what persons might appear to be duly elected , and to appoint the time and place of the first meeting of the legislative assembly . In substance , the same duties were devolved on the governor of Nebraska . While by this act the principle of constitution for each of the Territories was one and the same and the details of organic legislation regarding , both were as nearly as could be identical , and while the Territory of Nebraska was tranquilly and successfully organized in the due course of law , and its first legislative assembly met on the 16th of January , 1855 the organization of Kansas was long delayed , and has been attended with serious difficulties and embarrassments , partly the consequence of local maladministration and partly of the unjustifiable interference of the inhabitants of some of the States , foreign by residence , interests , and rights to the Territory . The governor of the Territory of Kansas , commissioned as before stated , on the 29th of June , 1854 , did not reach the designated seat of his government until the 7th of the ensuing October , and even then failed to make the first step in its legal organization . that of ordering the census or enumeration of its inhabitants , until so late a day that the election of the members of the legislative assembly did not take place until the 30th of March , 1855 , nor its meeting until the 2d of July , 1855 . So that for a year after the Territory was constituted by the act of Congress and the officers to be appointed by the Federal Executive had been commissioned it was without a complete government , without any legislative authority , without local law , and , of course , without the ordinary guaranties of peace and public order . In other respects the governor , instead of exercising constant vigilance and putting forth all his energies to prevent or counteract the tendencies to illegality which are prone to exist in all imperfectly organized and newly associated communities , allowed his attention to be diverted from official obligations by other objects , and himself set an example of the violation of law in the performance of acts which rendered it my duty in the sequel to remove him from the office of chief executive magistrate of the Territory . Before the requisite preparation was accomplished for election of a Territorial legislature , an election of Delegate to Congress had been held in the Territory on the 29th day of November , 1854 , and the Delegate took his seat in the House of Representatives without challenge . It arrangements had been perfected by the governor so that the election for members of the legislative assembly might be held in the several precincts at the same time as for Delegate to Congress , any question appertaining to the qualification of the persons voting as people of the Territory would have passed necessarily and at once under the supervision of Congress , as the judge of the validity of the return of the Delegate , and would have been determined before conflicting passions had become inflamed by time , and before opportunity could have been afforded for systematic interference of the people of individual States . This interference , in so far as concerns its primary causes and its immediate commencement , was one of the incidents of that pernicious agitation on the subject of the condition of the colored persons held to service in some of the States which has so long disturbed the repose of our country and excited individuals , otherwise patriotic and law abiding , to toil with misdirected zeal in the attempt to propagate their social theories by the perversion and abuse of the powers of Congress . The persons and the parties whom the tenor of the act to organize the Territories of Nebraska and Kansas thwarted in the endeavor to impose , through the agency of Congress , their particular views of social organization on the people of the future new States now perceiving that the policy of leaving the inhabitants of each State to judge for themselves in this respect was ineradicably rooted in the convictions of the people of the Union , then had recourse , in the pursuit of their general object , to the extraordinary measure of propagandist colonization of the Territory of Kansas to prevent the free and natural action of its inhabitants in its internal organization , and thus to anticipate or to force the determination of that question in this inchoate State . With such views associations were organized in some of the States , and their purposes were proclaimed through the press in language extremely irritating and offensive to those of whom the colonists were to become the neighbors . Those designs and acts had the necessary consequence to awaken emotions of intense indignation in States near to the Territory of Kansas , and especially in the adjoining State of Missouri , whose domestic peace was thus the most directly endangered but they are far from justifying the illegal and reprehensible countermovements which ensued . Under these inauspicious circumstances the primary elections for members of the legislative assembly were held in most , if not all , of the precincts at the time and the places and by the persons designated and appointed by the governor according to law . Angry accusations that illegal votes had been polled abounded on all sides , and imputations were made both of fraud and violence . But the governor , in the exercise of the power and the discharge of the duty conferred and imposed by law on him alone , officially received and considered the returns , declared a large majority of the members of the council and the house of representatives duly elected , withheld certificates from others because of alleged illegality of votes , appointed a new election to supply the places of the persons not certified , and thus at length , in all the forms of statute , and with his own official authentication , complete legality was given to the first legislative assembly of the Territory . Those decisions of the returning officers and of the governor are final , except that by the parliamentary usage of the country applied to the organic law it may be conceded that each house of the assembly must have been competent to determine in the last resort the qualifications and the election of its members . The subject was by its nature one appertaining exclusively to the jurisdiction of the local authorities of the Territory . Whatever irregularities may have occurred in the elections , it seems too late now to raise that question . At all events , it is a question as to which , neither now nor at any previous time , has the least possible legal authority been possessed by the President of the United States . For all present purposes the legislative body thus constituted and elected was the legitimate legislative assembly of the Territory . Accordingly the governor by proclamation convened the assembly thus elected to meet at a place called Pawnee City the two houses met and were duly organized in the ordinary parliamentary form each sent to and received from the governor the official communications usual on such occasions an elaborate message opening the session was communicated by the governor , and the general business of legislation was entered upon by the legislative assembly . But after a few days the assembly resolved to adjourn to another place in the Territory . A law was accordingly passed , against the consent of the governor , but in due form otherwise , to remove the seat of government temporarily to the Shawnee Manual Labor School or mission and thither the assembly proceeded . After this , receiving a bill for the establishment of a ferry at the town of Kickapoo , the governor refused to sign it , and by special message assigned for reason of refusal not anything objectionable in the bill itself nor any pretense of the illegality or incompetency of the assembly as such , but only the fact that the assembly had by its act transferred the seat of government temporarily from Pawnee City to the Shawnee Mission . For the same reason he continued to refuse to sign other bills until in the course of a few days he by official message communicated to the assembly the fact that he had received notification of the termination of his functions as governor , and that the duties of the office were legally devolved on the secretary of the Territory thus to the last recognizing the body as a duly elected and constituted legislative assembly . It will be perceived that if any constitutional defect attached to the legislative acts of the assembly it is not pretended to consist in irregularity of election or want of qualification of the members , but only in the change of its place of session . However trivial this objection may seem to be , it requires to be considered , because upon it is rounded all that superstructure of acts , plainly against law , which now threaten the peace , not only of the Territory of Kansas , but of the Union . Such an objection to the proceedings of the legislative assembly was of exceptionable origin , for the reason that by the express terms of the organic law the seat of government of the Territory was located temporarily at Fort Leavenworth and yet the governor himself remained there less than two months , and of his own discretion transferred the seat of government to the Shawnee Mission , where it in fact was at the time the assembly were called to meet at Pawnee City . If the governor had any such right to change temporarily the seat of government , still more had the legislative assembly . The objections are of exceptionable origin for the further reason that the place indicated by the governor , without having any exclusive claim of preference in itself , was a proposed town site only , which he and others were attempting to locate unlawfully upon land within a military reservation , and for participation in which illegal act the commandant of the post , a superior officer in the Army , has been dismissed by sentence of court martial . Nor is it easy to see why the legislative assembly might not with propriety pass the Territorial act transferring its sittings to the Shawnee Mission . If it could not , that must be on account of some prohibitory or incompatible provision of act of Congress but no such provision exists . The organic act , as already quoted , says the seat of government is hereby located temporarily at Fort Leavenworth and it then provides that certain of the public buildings there may be occupied and used under the direction of the governor and legislative assembly . These expressions might possibly be construed to imply that when , in a previous section of the act , it was enacted that the first legislative assembly shall meet at such place and on such day as the governor shall appoint , the word place means place at Fort Leavenworth , not place anywhere in the Territory . If so , the governor would have been the first to err in this matter , not only in himself having removed the seat of government to the Shawnee Mission , but in again removing it to Pawnee City . If there was any departure from the letter of the law , therefore , it was his in both instances . But however this may be , it is most unreasonable to suppose that by the terms of the organic act Congress intended to do impliedly what it has not done expressly that is , to forbid to the legislative assembly the power to choose any place it might see fit as the temporary seat of its deliberations . That is proved by the significant language of one of the subsequent acts of Congress on the subject that of March 3 , 1855 which , in making appropriation for public buildings of the Territory , enacts that the same shall not be expended until the legislature of said Territory shall have fixed by law the permanent seat of government . Congress in these expressions does not profess to be granting the power to fix the permanent seat of government , but recognizes the power as one already granted . But how Undoubtedly by the comprehensive provision of the organic act itself , which declares that the legislative power of the Territory shall extend to all rightful subjects of legislation consistent with the Constitution of the United States and the provisions of this act . If in view of this act the legislative assembly had the large power to fix the permanent seat of government at any place in its discretion , of course by the same enactment it had the less and the included power to fix it temporarily . Nevertheless , the allegation that the acts of the legislative assembly were illegal by reason of this removal of its place of session was brought forward to justify the first great movement in disregard of law within the Territory . One of the acts of the legislative assembly provided for the election of a Delegate to the present Congress , and a Delegate was elected under that law . But subsequently to this a portion of the people of the Territory proceeded without authority of law to elect another Delegate . Following upon this movement was another and more important one of the same general character . Persons confessedly not constituting the body politic or all the inhabitants , but merely a party of the inhabitants , and without law , have undertaken to summon a convention for the purpose of transforming the Territory into a State , and have framed a constitution , adopted it , and under it elected a governor and other officers and a Representative to Congress . In extenuation of these illegal acts it is alleged that the States of California , Michigan , and others were self organized , and as such were admitted into the Union without a previous enabling act of Congress . It is true that while in a majority of cases a previous act of Congress has been passed to authorize the Territory to present itself as a State , and that this is deemed the most regular course , yet such an act has not been held to be indispensable , and in some cases the Territory has proceeded without it , and has nevertheless been admitted into the Union as a State . It lies with Congress to authorize beforehand or to confirm afterwards , in its discretion . But in no instance has a State been admitted upon the application of persons acting against authorities duly constituted by act of Congress . In every case it is the people of the Territory , not a party among them , who have the power to form a constitution and ask for admission as a State . No principle of public law , no practice or precedent under the Constitution of the United States , no rule of reason , right , or common sense , confers any such power as that now claimed by a mere party in the Territory . In fact what has been done is of revolutionary character . It is avowedly so in motive and in aim as respects the local law of the Territory . It will become treasonable insurrection if it reach the length of organized resistance by force to the fundamental or any other Federal law and to the authority of the General Government . In such an event the path of duty for the Executive is plain . The Constitution requiring him to take care that the laws of the United States be faithfully executed , if they be opposed in the Territory of Kansas he may , and should , place at the disposal of the marshal any public force of the United States which happens to be within the jurisdiction , to be used as a portion of the posse comitatus and if that do not suffice to maintain order , then he may call forth the militia of one or more States for that object , or employ for the same object any part of the land or naval force of the United States . So , also , if the obstruction be to the laws of the Territory , and it be duly presented to him as a case of insurrection , he may employ for its suppression the militia of any State or the land or naval force of the United States . And if the Territory be invaded by the citizens of other States , whether for the purpose of deciding elections or for any other , and the local authorities find themselves unable to repel or withstand it , they will be entitled to , and upon the fact being fully ascertained they shall most certainly receive , the aid of the General Government . But it is not the duty of the President of the United States to volunteer interposition by force to preserve the purity of elections either in a State or Territory . To do so would be subversive of public freedom . And whether a law be wise or unwise , just or unjust , is not a question for him to judge . If it be constitutional that is , if it be the law of the land it is his duty to cause it to be executed , or to sustain the authorities of any State or Territory in executing it in opposition to all insurrectionary movements . Our system affords no justification of revolutionary acts , for the constitutional means of relieving the people of unjust administration and laws , by a change of public agents and by repeal , are ample , and more prompt and effective than illegal violence . These means must be scrupulously guarded , this great prerogative of popular sovereignty sacredly respected . It is the undoubted right of the peaceable and orderly people of the Territory of Kansas to elect their own legislative body , make their own laws , and regulate their own social institutions , without foreign or domestic molestation . Interference on the one hand to procure the abolition or prohibition of slave labor in the Territory has produced mischievous interference on the other for its maintenance or introduction . One wrong begets another . Statements entirely unfounded , or grossly exaggerated , concerning events within the Territory are sedulously diffused through remote States to feed the flame of sectional animosity there , and the agitators there exert themselves indefatigably in return to encourage and stimulate strife within the Territory . The inflammatory agitation , of which the present is but a part , has for twenty years produced nothing save unmitigated evil , North and South . But for it the character of the domestic institutions of the future new State would have been a matter of too little interest to the inhabitants of the contiguous States , personally or collectively , to produce among them any political emotion . Climate , soil , production , hopes of rapid advancement and the pursuit of happiness on the part of the settlers themselves , with good wishes , but with no interference from without , would have quietly determined the question which is at this time of such disturbing character . But we are constrained to turn our attention to the circumstances of embarrassment as they now exist . It is the duty of the people of Kansas to discountenance every act or purpose of resistance to its laws . Above all , the emergency appeals to the citizens of the States , and especially of those contiguous to the Territory , neither by intervention of nonresidents in elections nor by unauthorized military force to attempt to encroach upon or usurp the authority of the inhabitants of the Territory . No citizen of our country should permit himself to forget that he is a part of its Government and entitled to be heard in the determination of its policy and its measures , and that therefore the highest considerations of personal honor and patriotism require him to maintain by whatever of power or influence he may possess the integrity of the laws of the Republic . Entertaining these views , it will be my imperative duty to exert the whole power of the Federal Executive to support public order in the Territory to vindicate its laws , whether Federal or local , against all attempts of organized resistance , and so to protect its people in the establishment of their own institutions , undisturbed by encroachment from without , and in the full enjoyment of the rights of self government assured to them by the Constitution and the organic act of Congress . Although serious and threatening disturbances in the Territory of Kansas , announced to me by the governor in December last , were speedily quieted without the effusion of blood and in a satisfactory manner , there is , I regret to say , reason to apprehend that disorders will continue to occur there , with increasing tendency to violence , until some decisive measure be taken to dispose of the question itself which constitutes the inducement or occasion of internal agitation and of external interference . This , it seems to me , can best be accomplished by providing that when the inhabitants of Kansas may desire it and shall be of sufficient number to constitute a State , a convention of delegates , duly elected by the qualified voters , shall assemble to frame a constitution , and thus to prepare through regular and lawful means for its admission into the Union as a State . I respectfully recommend the enactment of a law to that effect . I recommend also that a special appropriation be made to defray any expense which may become requisite in the execution of the laws or the maintenance of public order in the Territory of Kansas .<speech_sep>My Countrymen It a relief to feel that no heart but my own can know the personal regret and bitter sorrow over which I have been borne to a position so suitable for others rather than desirable for myself . The circumstances under which I have been called for a limited period to preside over the destinies of the Republic fill me with aprofound sense of responsibility , but with nothing like shrinking apprehension . I repair to the post assigned me not as to one sought , but in obedience to the unsolicited expression of your will , answerable only for a fearless , faithful , and diligent exercise of my best powers . I ought to be , and am , truly grateful for the rare manifestation of the nation s confidence but this , so far from lightening my obligations , only adds to their weight . You have summoned me in my weakness you must sustain me by your strength . When looking for the fulfillment of reasonable requirements , you will not be unmindful of the great changes which have occurred , even within the last quarter of a century , and the consequent augmentation and complexity of duties imposed in the administration both of your home and foreign affairs . Whether the elements of inherent force in the Republic have kept pace with its unparalleled progression in territory , population , and wealth has been the subject of earnest thought and discussion on both sides of the ocean . Less than sixty four years ago the Father of his Country made the then recent accession of the important State of North Carolina to the Constitution of the United States one of the subjects of his special congratulation . At that moment , however , when the agitation consequent upon the Revolutionary struggle had hardly subsided , when we were just emerging from the weakness and embarrassments of the Confederation , there was an evident consciousness of vigor equal to the great mission so wisely and bravely fulfilled by our fathers . It was not a presumptuous assurance , but a calm faith , springing from a clear view of the sources of power in a government constituted like ours . It is no paradox to say that although comparatively weak the new born nation was intrinsically strong . Inconsiderable in population and apparent resources , it was upheld by a broad and intelligent comprehension of rights and an all pervading purpose to maintain them , stronger than armaments . It came from the furnace of the Revolution , tempered to the necessities of the times . The thoughts of the men of that day were as practical as their sentiments were patriotic . They wasted no portion of their energies upon idle and delusive speculations , but with a firm and fearless step advanced beyond the governmental landmarks which had hitherto circumscribed the limits of human freedom and planted their standard , where it has stood against dangers which have threatened from abroad , and internal agitation , which has at times fearfully menaced at home . They proved themselves equal to the solution of the great problem , to understand which their minds had been illuminated by the dawning lights of the Revolution . The object sought was not a thing dreamed of it was a thing realized . They had exhibited only the power to achieve , but , what all history affirms to be so much more unusual , the capacity to maintain . The oppressed throughout the world from that day to the present have turned their eyes hitherward , not to find those lights extinguished or to fear lest they should wane , but to be constantly cheered by their steady and increasing radiance . In this our country has , in my judgment , thus far fulfilled its highest duty to suffering humanity . It has spoken and will continue to speak , not only by its words , but by its acts , the language of sympathy , encouragement , and hope to those who earnestly listen to tones which pronounce for the largest rational liberty . But after all , the most animating encouragement and potent appeal for freedom will be its own history its trials and its triumphs . Preeminently , the power of our advocacy reposes in our example but no example , be it remembered , can be powerful for lasting good , whatever apparent advantages may be gained , which is not based upon eternal principles of right and justice . Our fathers decided for themselves , both upon the hour to declare and the hour to strike . They were their own judges of the circumstances under which it became them to pledge to each other their lives , their fortunes , and their sacred honor for the acquisition of the priceless inheritance transmitted to us . The energy with which that great conflict was opened and , under the guidance of a manifest and beneficent Providence the uncomplaining endurance with which it was prosecuted to its consummation were only surpassed by the wisdom and patriotic spirit of concession which characterized all the counsels of the early fathers . One of the most impressive evidences of that wisdom is to be found in the fact that the actual working of our system has dispelled a degree of solicitude which at the outset disturbed bold hearts and far reaching intellects . The apprehension of dangers from extended territory , multiplied States , accumulated wealth , and augmented population has proved to be unfounded . The stars upon your banner have become nearly threefold their original number your densely populated possessions skirt the shores of the two great oceans and yet this vast increase of people and territory has not only shown itself compatible with the harmonious action of the States and Federal Government in their respective constitutional spheres , but has afforded an additional guaranty of the strength and integrity of both . With an experience thus suggestive and cheering , the policy of my Administration will not be controlled by any timid forebodings of evil from expansion . Indeed , it is not to be disguised that our attitude as a nation and our position on the globe render the acquisition of certain possessions not within our jurisdiction eminently important for our protection , if not in the future essential for the preservation of the rights of commerce and the peace of the world . Should they be obtained , it will be through no grasping spirit , but with a view to obvious national interest and security , and in a manner entirely consistent with the strictest observance of national faith . We have nothing in our history or position to invite aggression we have everything to beckon us to the cultivation of relations of peace and amity with all nations . Purposes , therefore , at once just and pacific will be significantly marked in the conduct of our foreign affairs . I intend that my Administration shall leave no blot upon our fair record , and trust I may safely give the assurance that no act within the legitimate scope of my constitutional control will be tolerated on the part of any portion of our citizens which can not challenge a ready justification before the tribunal of the civilized world . An Administration would be unworthy of confidence at home or respect abroad should it cease to be influenced by the conviction that no apparent advantage can be purchased at a price so dear as that of national wrong or dishonor . It is not your privilege as a nation to speak of a distant past . The striking incidents of your history , replete with instruction and furnishing abundant grounds for hopeful confidence , are comprised in a period comparatively brief . But if your past is limited , your future is boundless . Its obligations throng the unexplored pathway of advancement , and will be limitless as duration . Hence a sound and comprehensive policy should embrace not less the distant future than the urgent present . The great objects of our pursuit as a people are best to be attained by peace , and are entirely consistent with the tranquillity and interests of the rest of mankind . With the neighboring nations upon our continent we should cultivate kindly and fraternal relations . We can desire nothing in regard to them so much as to see them consolidate their strength and pursue the paths of prosperity and happiness . If in the course of their growth we should open new channels of trade and create additional facilities for friendly intercourse , the benefits realized will be equal and mutual . Of the complicated European systems of national polity we have heretofore been independent . From their wars , their tumults , and anxieties we have been , happily , almost entirely exempt . Whilst these are confined to the nations which gave them existence , and within their legitimate jurisdiction , they can not affect us except as they appeal to our sympathies in the cause of human freedom and universal advancement . But the vast interests of commerce are common to all mankind , and the advantages of trade and international intercourse must always present a noble field for the moral influence of a great people . With these views firmly and honestly carried out , we have a right to expect , and shall under all circumstances require , prompt reciprocity . The rights which belong to us as a nation are not alone to be regarded , but those which pertain to every citizen in his individual capacity , at home and abroad , must be sacredly maintained . So long as he can discern every star in its place upon that ensign , without wealth to purchase for him preferment or title to secure for him place , it will be his privilege , and must be his acknowledged right , to stand unabashed even in the presence of princes , with a proud consciousness that he is himself one of a nation of sovereigns and that he can not in legitimate pursuit wander so far from home that the agent whom he shall leave behind in the place which I now occupy will not see that no rude hand of power or tyrannical passion is laid upon him with impunity . He must realize that upon every sea and on every soil where our enterprise may rightfully seek the protection of our flag American citizenship is an inviolable panoply for the security of American rights . And in this connection it can hardly be necessary to reaffirm a principle which should now be regarded as fundamental . The rights , security , and repose of this Confederacy reject the idea of interference or colonization on this side of the ocean by any foreign power beyond present jurisdiction as utterly inadmissible . The opportunities of observation furnished by my brief experience as a soldier confirmed in my own mind the opinion , entertained and acted upon by others from the formation of the Government , that the maintenance of large standing armies in our country would be not only dangerous , but unnecessary . They also illustrated the importance I might well say the absolute necessity of the military science and practical skill furnished in such an eminent degree by the institution which has made your Army what it is , under the discipline and instruction of officers not more distinguished for their solid attainments , gallantry , and devotion to the public service than for unobtrusive bearing and high moral tone . The Army as organized must be the nucleus around which in every time of need the strength of your military power , the sure bulwark of your defense a national militia may be readily formed into a well disciplined and efficient organization . And the skill and self devotion of the Navy assure you that you may take the performance of the past as a pledge for the future , and may confidently expect that the flag which has waved its untarnished folds over every sea will still float in undiminished honor . But these , like many other subjects , will be appropriately brought at afuture time to the attention of the coordinate branches of the Government , to which I shall always look with profound respect and with trustful confidence that they will accord to me the aid and support which I shall so much need and which their experience and wisdom will readily suggest . In the administration of domestic affairs you expect a devoted integrity in the public service and an observance of rigid economy in all departments , so marked as never justly to be questioned . If this reasonable expectation be not realized , I frankly confess that one of your leading hopes is doomed to disappointment , and that my efforts in a very important particular must result in a humiliating failure . Offices can be properly regarded only in the light of aids for the accomplishment of these objects , and as occupancy can confer no prerogative nor importunate desire for preferment any claim , the public interest imperatively demands that they be considered with sole reference to the duties to be performed . Good citizens may well claim the protection of good laws and the benign influence of good government , but a claim for office is what the people of a republic should never recognize . No reasonable man of any party will expect the Administration to be so regardless of its responsibility and of the obvious elements of success as to retain persons known to be under the influence of political hostility and partisan prejudice in positions which will require not only severe labor , but cordial cooperation . Having no implied engagements to ratify , no rewards to bestow , no resentments to remember , and no personal wishes to consult in selections for official station , I shall fulfill this difficult and delicate trust , admitting no motive as worthy either of my character or position which does not contemplate an efficient discharge of duty and the best interests of my country . I acknowledge my obligations to the masses of my countrymen , and to them alone . Higher objects than personal aggrandizement gave direction and energy to their exertions in the late canvass , and they shall not be disappointed . They require at my hands diligence , integrity , and capacity wherever there are duties to be performed . Without these qualities in their public servants , more stringent laws for the prevention or punishment of fraud , negligence , and peculation will be vain . With them they will be unnecessary . But these are not the only points to which you look for vigilant watchfulness . The dangers of a concentration of all power in the general government of a confederacy so vast as ours are too obvious to be disregarded . You have a right , therefore , to expect your agents in every department to regard strictly the limits imposed upon them by the Constitution of the United States . The great scheme of our constitutional liberty rests upon a proper distribution of power between the State and Federal authorities , and experience has shown that the harmony and happiness of our people must depend upon a just discrimination between the separate rights and responsibilities of the States and your common rights and obligations under the General Government and here , in my opinion , are the considerations which should form the true basis of future concord in regard to the questions which have most seriously disturbed public tranquillity . If the Federal Government will confine itself to the exercise of powers clearly granted by the Constitution , it can hardly happen that its action upon any question should endanger the institutions of the States or interfere with their right to manage matters strictly domestic according to the will of their own people . In expressing briefly my views upon an important subject rich has recently agitated the nation to almost a fearful degree , I am moved by no other impulse than a most earnest desire for the perpetuation of that Union which has made us what we are , showering upon us blessings and conferring a power and influence which our fathers could hardly have anticipated , even with their most sanguine hopes directed to a far off future . The sentiments I now announce were not unknown before the expression of the voice which called me here . My own position upon this subject was clear and unequivocal , upon the record of my words and my acts , and it is only recurred to at this time because silence might perhaps be misconstrued . With the Union my best and dearest earthly hopes are entwined . Without it what are we individually or collectively What becomes of the noblest field ever opened for the advancement of our race in religion , in government , in the arts , and in all that dignifies and adorns mankind From that radiant constellation which both illumines our own way and points out to struggling nations their course , let but a single star be lost , and , if these be not utter darkness , the luster of the whole is dimmed . Do my countrymen need any assurance that such a catastrophe is not to overtake them while I possess the power to stay it It is with me an earnest and vital belief that as the Union has been the source , under Providence , of our prosperity to this time , so it is the surest pledge of a continuance of the blessings we have enjoyed , and which we are sacredly bound to transmit undiminished to our children . The field of calm and free discussion in our country is open , and will always be so , but never has been and never can be traversed for good in a spirit of sectionalism and uncharitableness . The founders of the Republic dealt with things as they were presented to them , in a spirit of self sacrificing patriotism , and , as time has proved , with a comprehensive wisdom which it will always be safe for us to consult . Every measure tending to strengthen the fraternal feelings of all the members of our Union has had my heartfelt approbation . To every theory of society or government , whether the offspring of feverish ambition or of morbid enthusiasm , calculated to dissolve the bonds of law and affection which unite us , I shall interpose a ready and stern resistance . I believe that involuntary servitude , as it exists in different States of this Confederacy , is recognized by the Constitution . I believe that it stands like any other admitted right , and that the States where it exists are entitled to efficient remedies to enforce the constitutional provisions . I hold that the laws of 1850 , commonly called the compromise measures , are strictly constitutional and to be unhesitatingly carried into effect . I believe that the constituted authorities of this Republic are bound to regard the rights of the South in this respect as they would view any other legal and constitutional right , and that the laws to enforce them should be respected and obeyed , not with a reluctance encouraged by abstract opinions as to their propriety in a different state of society , but cheerfully and according to the decisions of the tribunal to which their exposition belongs . Such have been , and are , my convictions , and upon them I shall act . I fervently hope that the question is at rest , and that no sectional or ambitious or fanatical excitement may again threaten the durability of our institutions or obscure the light of our prosperity . But let not the foundation of our hope rest upon man s wisdom . It will not be sufficient that sectional prejudices find no place in the public deliberations . It will not be sufficient that the rash counsels of human passion are rejected . It must be felt that there is no national security but in the nation s humble , acknowledged dependence upon God and His overruling providence . We have been carried in safety through a perilous crisis . Wise counsels , like those which gave us the Constitution , prevailed to uphold it . Let the period be remembered as an admonition , and not as an encouragement , in any section of the Union , to make experiments where experiments are fraught with such fearful hazard . Let it be impressed upon all hearts that , beautiful as our fabric is , no earthly power or wisdom could ever reunite its broken fragments . Standing , as I do , almost within view of the green slopes of Monticello , and , as it were , within reach of the tomb of Washington , with all the cherished memories of the past gathering around me like so many eloquent voices of exhortation from heaven , I can express no better hope for my country than that the kind Providence which smiled upon our fathers may enable their children to preserve the blessings they have inherited .<speech_sep>