In my message to the House of Representatives of the 28th March last I solemnly protested against the creation of a committee , at the head of which was placed my accuser , for the purpose of investigating whether the President had , by money , patronage , or other improper means , sought to influence the action of Congress or any committee thereof for or against the passage of any law appertaining to the rights of any State or Territory . I protested against this because it was destitute of any specification because it referred to no particular act to enable the President to prepare for his defense because it deprived him of the constitutional guards which , in common with every citizen of the United States , he possesses for his protection , and because it assailed his constitutional independence as a coordinate branch of the Government . There is an enlightened justice , as well as a beautiful symmetry , in every part of the Constitution . This is conspicuously manifested in regard to impeachments . The House of Representatives possesses the sole power of impeachment , the Senate the sole power to try all impeachments and the impeachable offenses are treason , bribery , or other high crimes or misdemeanors . The practice of the House from the earliest times had been in accordance with its own dignity , the rights of the accused , and the demands of justice . At the commencement of each judicial investigation which might lead to an impeachment specific charges were always preferred the accused had an opportunity of cross examining the witnesses , and he was placed in full possession of the precise nature of the offense which he had to meet . An impartial and elevated standing committee was charged with this investigation , upon which no member inspired with the ancient sense of honor and justice would have served had he ever expressed an opinion against the accused . Until the present occasion it was never deemed proper to transform the accuser into the judge and to confer upon him the selection of his own committee . The charges made against me in vague and general terms were of such a false and atrocious character that I did not entertain a moment 39 s apprehension for the result . They were abhorrent to every principle instilled into me from my youth and every practice of my life , and I did not believe it possible that the man existed who would so basely perjure himself as to swear to the truth of any such accusations . In this conviction I am informed I have not been mistaken . In my former protest , therefore , I truly and emphatically declared that it was made for no reason personal to myself , but because the proceedings of the House were in violation of the rights of the coordinate executive branch of the Government , subversive of its constitutional independence , and if unresisted would establish a precedent dangerous and embarrassing to all my successors . Notwithstanding all this , if the committee had not transcended the authority conferred upon it by the resolution of the House of Representatives , broad and general as this was , I should have remained silent upon the subject . What I now charge is that they have acted as though they possessed unlimited power , and , without any warrant whatever in the resolution under which they were appointed , have pursued a course not merely at war with the constitutional rights of the Executive , but tending to degrade the Presidential office itself to such a degree as to render it unworthy of the acceptance of any man of honor or principle . The resolution of the House , so far as it is accusatory of the President , is confined to an inquiry whether he had used corrupt or improper means to influence the action of Congress or any of its committees on legislative measures pending before them nothing more , nothing less . I have not learned through the newspapers or in any other mode that the committee have touched the other accusatory branch of the resolution , charging the President with a violation of duty in failing to execute some law or laws . This branch of the resolution is therefore out of the question . By what authority , then , have the committee undertaken to investigate the course of the President in regard to the convention which framed the Lecompton constitution By what authority have they undertaken to pry into our foreign relations for the purpose of assailing him on account of the instructions given by the Secretary of State to our minister in Mexico relative to the Tehuantepec route By what authority have they inquired into the causes of removal from office , and this from the parties themselves removed , with a view to prejudice his character , notwithstanding this power of removal belongs exclusively to the President under the Constitution , was so decided by the First Congress in the year 1789 , and has accordingly ever since been exercised There is in the resolution no pretext of authority for the committee to investigate the question of the printing of the post office blanks nor is it to be supposed that the House , if asked , would have granted such an authority , because this question had been previously committed to two other committees one in the Senate and the other in the House . Notwithstanding this absolute want of power , the committee rushed into this investigation in advance of all other subjects . The committee proceeded for months , from March 22 , 1860 , to examine ex parte and without any notice to myself into every subject which could possibly affect my character . Interested and vindictive witnesses were summoned and examined before them and the first and only information of their testimony which , in almost every instance , I received was obtained from the publication of such portions of it as could injuriously affect myself in the New York journals . It mattered not that these statements were , so far as I have learned , disproved by the most respectable witnesses who happened to be on the spot . The telegraph was silent respecting these contradictions . It was a secret committee in regard to the testimony in my defense , but it was public in regard to all the testimony which could by possibility reflect on my character . The poison was left to produce its effect upon the public mind , whilst the antidote was carefully withheld . In their examinations the committee violated the most sacred and honorable confidences existing among men . Private correspondence , which a truly honorable man would never even entertain a distant thought of divulging , was dragged to light . Different persons in official and confidential relations with myself , and with whom it was supposed I might have held conversations the revelation of which would do me injury , were examined . Even members of the Senate and members of my own Cabinet , both my constitutional advisers , were called upon to testify , for the purpose of discovering something , if possible , to my discredit . The distribution of the patronage of the Government is by far the most disagreeable duty of the President . Applicants are so numerous and their applications are pressed with such eagerness by their friends , both in and out of Congress , that the selection of one for any desirable office gives offense to many . Disappointed applicants , removed officers , and those who for any cause , real or imaginary , had become hostile to the Administration presented themselves or were invited by a summons to appear before the committee . These are the most dangerous witnesses . Even with the best intentions they are so influenced by prejudice and disappointment that they almost inevitably discolor truth . They swear to their own version of private conversations with the President without the possibility of contradiction . His lips are sealed , and he is left at their mercy . He can not , as a coordinate branch of the Government , appear before a committee of investigation to contradict the oaths of such witnesses . Every coward knows that he can employ insulting language against the President with impunity , and every false or prejudiced witness can attempt to swear away his character before such a committee without the fear of contradiction . Thus for months , whilst doing my best at one end of the Avenue to perform my high and responsible duties to the country , has there been a committee of the House of Representatives in session at the other end of the Avenue spreading a drag net , without the shadow of authority from the House , over the whole Union , to catch any disappointed man willing to malign my character and all this in secret conclave . The lion 39 s mouth at Venice , into which secret denunciations were dropped , is an apt illustration of the Covode committee . The star chamber , tyrannical and odious as it was , never proceeded in such a manner . For centuries there has been nothing like it in any civilized country , except the revolutionary , tribunal of France in the days of Robespierre . Now I undertake to state and to prove that should the proceedings of the committee be sanctioned by the House and become a precedent for future times the balance of the Constitution will be entirely upset , and there will no longer remain the three coordinate and independent branches of the Government legislative , executive , and judicial . The worst fears of the patriots and statesmen who framed the Constitution in regard to the usurpations of the legislative on the executive and judicial branches will then be realized . In the language of Madison , speaking on this very subject in the forty eighth number of the Federalist In a representative republic , where the executive magistracy is carefully limited , both in the extent and duration of its power , and where the legislative power is exercised by an assembly which is inspired , by a supposed influence over the people , with an intrepid confidence in its own strength , which is sufficiently numerous to feel all the passions which actuate a multitude , yet not so numerous as to be incapable of pursuing the objects of its passions by means which reason prescribes , it is against the enterprising ambition of this department that the people ought to indulge all their jealousy and exhaust all their precautions . And in the expressive and pointed language of Jefferson , when speaking of the tendency of the legislative branch of Government to usurp the rights of the weaker branches The concentrating these in the same hands is precisely the definition of despotic government . It will be no alleviation that these powers will be exercised by a plurality of hands , and not by a single one . One hundred and seventy three despots would surely be as oppressive as one . Let those who doubt it turn their eyes on the Republic of Venice . As little will it avail us that they are chosen by ourselves . An elective despotism was not the government we fought for , but one which should not only be rounded on free principles , but in which the powers of government should be so divided and balanced among several bodies of magistracy as that no one could transcend their legal limits without being effectually checked and controlled by the others . Should the proceedings of the Covode committee become a precedent , both the letter and spirit of the Constitution will be violated . One of the three massive columns on which the whole superstructure rests will be broken down . Instead of the Executive being a coordinate it will become a subordinate branch of the Government . The Presidential office will be dragged into the dust . The House of Representatives will then have rendered the Executive almost necessarily subservient to its wishes , instead of being independent . How is it possible that two powers in the State can be coordinate and independent of each other if the one claims and exercises the power to reprove and to censure all the official acts and all the private conversations of the other , and this upon ex parte testimony before a secret inquisitorial committee in short , to assume a general censorship over the other The idea is as absurd in public as it would be in private life . Should the President attempt to assert and maintain his own independence , future Covode committees may dragoon him into submission by collecting the hosts of disappointed office hunters , removed officers , and those who desire to live upon the public Treasury , which must follow in the wake of every , Administration , and they in secret conclave will swear away his reputation . Under such circumstances he must be a very bold man should he not surrender at discretion and consent to exercise his authority according to the will of those invested with this terrific power . The sovereign people of the several States have elected him to the highest and most honorable office in the world . He is their only direct representative in the Government . By their Constitution they have made him Commander in Chief of their Army and Navy . He represents them in their intercourse with foreign nations . Clothed with their dignity and authority , he occupies a proud position before all nations , civilized and savage . With the consent of the Senate , he appoints all the important officers of the Government . He exercises the veto power , and to that extent controls the legislation of Congress . For the performance of these high duties he is responsible to the people of the several States , and not in any degree to the House of Representatives . Shall he surrender these high powers , conferred upon him as the representative of the American people for their benefit , to the House to be exercised under their overshadowing influence and control Shall he alone of all the citizens of the United States be denied a fair trial Shall he alone not be informed of the nature and cause of the accusation against him Shall he alone not be confronted with the witnesses against him Shall the House of Representatives , usurping the powers of the Senate , proceed to try the President through the agency of a secret committee of the body , where it is impossible he can make any defense , and then , without affording him an opportunity of being heard , pronounce a judgment of censure against him The very same rule might be applied for the very same reason to every judge of every court of the United States . From what part of the Constitution is this terrible secret inquisitorial power derived No such express power exists . From which of the enumerated powers can it be inferred It is true the House can not pronounce the formal judgment against him of removal from office , but they can by their judgment of censure asperse his reputation , and thus to the extent of their influence render the office contemptible . An example is at hand of the reckless manner in which this power of censure can be employed in high party times . The House on a recent occasion have attempted to degrade the President by adopting the resolution of John Sherman declaring that he , in conjunction with the Secretary of the Navy , by receiving and considering the party relations of bidders for contracts and the effect of awarding contracts upon pending elections , have set an example dangerous to the public safety and deserving the reproof of this House . It will scarcely be credited that the sole pretext for this vote of censure was the simple fact that in disposing of the numerous letters of every imaginable character which I daily receive I had in the usual course of business referred a letter from Colonel Patterson , of Philadelphia , in relation to a contract , to the attention of the Secretary of the Navy , the head of the appropriate Department , without expressing or intimating any opinion whatever on the subject and to make the matter if possible still plainer , the Secretary had informed the committee that the President did not in any manner interfere in this case , nor has he in any other case of contract since I have been in the Department . The absence of all proof to sustain this attempt to degrade the President , whilst it manifests the venom of the shaft aimed at him , has destroyed the vigor of the bow . To return after this digression Should the House , by the institution of Covode committees , votes of censure , and other devices to harass the President , reduce him to subservience to their will and render him their creature , then the well balanced Government which our fathers framed will be annihilated . This conflict has already been commenced in earnest by the House against the Executive . A bad precedent rarely , if ever , dies . It will , I fear , be pursued in the time of my successors , no matter what may be their political character . Should secret committees be appointed with unlimited authority to range over all the words and actions , and , if possible , the very thoughts , of the President with a view to discover something in his past life prejudicial to his character from parasites and informers , this would be an ordeal which scarcely any mere man since the fall could endure . It would be to subject him to a reign of terror from which the stoutest and purest heart might shrink . I have passed triumphantly through this ordeal . My vindication is complete . The committee have reported no resolution looking to an impeachment against me no resolution of censure not even a resolution pointing out any abuses in any of the Executive Departments of the Government to be corrected by legislation . This is the highest commendation which could be bestowed on the heads of these Departments . The sovereign people of the States will , however , I trust , save my successors , whoever they may be , from any such ordeal . They are frank , bold , and honest . They detest delators and informers . I therefore , in the name and as the representative of this great people , and standing upon the ramparts of the Constitution which they have ordained and established , do solemnly protest against these unprecedented and unconstitutional proceedings . There was still another committee raised by the House on the 6th March last , on motion of Hoard , to which I had not the slightest objection . The resolution creating it was confined to specific charges , which I have ever since been ready and willing to meet . I have at all times invited and defied fair investigation upon constitutional principles . I have received no notice that this committee have ever proceeded to the investigation . Why should the House of Representatives desire to encroach on the other departments of the Government Their rightful powers are ample for every legitimate purpose . They are the impeaching body . In their legislative capacity it is their most wise and wholesome prerogative to institute rigid examinations into the manner in which all departments of the Government are conducted , with a view to reform abuses , to promote economy , and to improve every branch of administration . Should they find reason to believe in the course of their examinations that any grave offense had been committed by the President or any officer of the Government rendering it proper , in their judgment , to resort to impeachment , their course would be plain . They would then transfer the question from their legislative to their accusatory jurisdiction , and take care that in all the preliminary judicial proceedings preparatory to the vote of articles of impeachment the accused should enjoy the benefit of cross examining the witnesses and all the other safeguards with which the Constitution surrounds every American citizen . If in a legislative investigation it should appear that the public interest required the removal of any officer of the Government , no President has ever existed who , after giving him a fair hearing , would hesitate to apply the remedy . This I take to be the ancient and well established practice . An adherence to it will best promote the harmony and the dignity of the intercourse between the coordinate branches of the Government and render us all more respectable both in the eyes of our own countrymen and of foreign nations .<speech_sep>Fellow Citizens of the Senate and House of Representatives Our deep and heartfelt gratitude is due to that Almighty Power which has bestowed upon us such varied and numerous blessings throughout the past year . The general health of the country has been excellent , our harvests have been unusually plentiful , and prosperity smiles throughout the land . Indeed , notwithstanding our demerits , we have much reason to believe from the past events in our history that we have enjoyed the special protection of Divine Providence ever since our origin as a nation . We have been exposed to many threatening and alarming difficulties in our progress , but on each successive occasion the impending cloud has been dissipated at the moment it appeared ready to burst upon our head , and the danger to our institutions has passed away . May we ever be under the divine guidance and protection . Whilst it is the duty of the President from time to time to give to Congress information of the state of the Union , I shall not refer in detail to the recent sad and bloody occurrences at Harpers Ferry . Still , it is proper to observe that these events , however bad and cruel in themselves , derive their chief importance from the apprehension that they are but symptoms of an incurable disease in the public mind , which may break out in still more dangerous outrages and terminate at last in an open war by the North to abolish slavery in the South . Whilst for myself I entertain no such apprehension , they ought to afford a solemn warning to us all to beware of the approach of danger . Our Union is a stake of such inestimable value as to demand our constant and watchful vigilance for its preservation . In this view , let me implore my countrymen , North and South , to cultivate the ancient feelings of mutual forbearance and good will toward each other and strive to allay the demon spirit of sectional hatred and strife now alive in the land . This advice proceeds from the heart of an old public functionary whose service commenced in the last generation , among the wise and conservative statesmen of that day , now nearly all passed away , and whose first and dearest earthly wish is to leave his country tranquil , prosperous , united , and powerful . We ought to reflect that in this age , and especially in this country , there is an incessant flux and reflux of public opinion . Questions which in their day assumed a most threatening aspect have now nearly gone from the memory of men . They are volcanoes burnt out , and on the lava and ashes and squalid scoria of old eruptions grow the peaceful olive , the cheering vine , and the sustaining corn . Such , in my opinion , will prove to be the fate of the present sectional excitement should those who wisely seek to apply the remedy continue always to confine their efforts within the pale of the Constitution . If this course be pursued , the existing agitation on the subject of domestic slavery , like everything human , will have its day and give place to other and less threatening controversies . Public opinion in this country is all powerful , and when it reaches a dangerous excess upon any question the good sense of the people will furnish the corrective and bring it back within safe limits . Still , to hasten this auspicious result at the present crisis we ought to remember that every rational creature must be presumed to intend the natural consequences of his own teachings . Those who announce abstract doctrines subversive of the Constitution and the Union must not be surprised should their heated partisans advance one step further and attempt by violence to carry these doctrines into practical effect . In this view of the subject , it ought never to be forgotten that however great may have been the political advantages resulting from the Union to every portion of our common country , these would all prove to be as nothing should the time ever arrive when they can not be enjoyed without serious danger to the personal safety of the people of fifteen members of the Confederacy . If the peace of the domestic fireside throughout these States should ever be invaded , if the mothers of families within this extensive region should not be able to retire to rest at night without suffering dreadful apprehensions of what may be their own fate and that of their children before the morning , it would be vain to recount to such a people the political benefits which result to them from the Union . Self preservation is the first instinct of nature , and therefore any state of society in which the sword is all the time suspended over the heads of the people must at last become intolerable . But I indulge in no such gloomy forebodings . On the contrary , I firmly believe that the events at Harpers Ferry , by causing the people to pause and reflect upon the possible peril to their cherished institutions , will be the means under Providence of allaying the existing excitement and preventing further outbreaks of a similar character . They will resolve that the Constitution and the Union shall not be endangered by rash counsels , knowing that should the silver cord be loosed or the golden bowl be broken at the fountain human power could never reunite the scattered and hostile fragments . I cordially congratulate you upon the final settlement by the Supreme Court of the United States of the question of slavery in the Territories , which had presented an aspect so truly formidable at the commencement of my Administration . The right has been established of every citizen to take his property of any kind , including slaves , into the common Territories belonging equally to all the States of the Confederacy , and to have it protected there under the Federal Constitution . Neither Congress nor a Territorial legislature nor any human power has any authority to annul or impair this vested right . The supreme judicial tribunal of the country , which is a coordinate branch of the Government , has sanctioned and affirmed these principles of constitutional law , so manifestly just in themselves and so well calculated to promote peace and harmony among the States . It is a striking proof of the sense of justice which is inherent in our people that the property in slaves has never been disturbed , to my knowledge , in any of the Territories . Even throughout the late troubles in Kansas there has not been any attempt , as I am credibly informed , to interfere in a single instance with the right of the master . Had any such attempt been made , the judiciary would doubtless have afforded an adequate remedy . Should they fail to do this hereafter , it will then be time enough to strengthen their hands by further legislation . Had it been decided that either Congress or the Territorial legislature possess the power to annul or impair the right to property in slaves , the evil would be intolerable . In the latter event there would be a struggle for a majority of the members of the legislature at each successive election , and the sacred rights of property held under the Federal Constitution would depend for the time being on the result . The agitation would thus be rendered incessant whilst the Territorial condition remained , and its baneful influence would keep alive a dangerous excitement among the people of the several States . Thus has the status of a Territory during the intermediate period from its first settlement until it shall become a State been irrevocably fixed by the final decision of the Supreme Court . Fortunate has this been for the prosperity of the Territories , as well as the tranquillity of the States . Now emigrants from the North and the South , the East and the West , will meet in the Territories on a common platform , having brought with them that species of property best adapted , in their own opinion , to promote their welfare . From natural causes the slavery question will in each case soon virtually settle itself , and before the Territory is prepared for admission as a State into the Union this decision , one way or the other , will have been a foregone conclusion . Meanwhile the settlement of the new Territory will proceed without serious interruption , and its progress and prosperity will not be endangered or retarded by violent political struggles . When in the progress of events the inhabitants of any Territory shall have reached the number required to form a State , they will then proceed in a regular manner and in the exercise of the rights of popular sovereignty to form a constitution preparatory to admission into the Union . After this has been done , to employ the language of the Kansas and Nebraska act , they shall be received into the Union with or without slavery , as their constitution may prescribe at the time of their admission . This sound principle has happily been recognized in some form or other by an almost unanimous vote of both Houses of the last Congress . All lawful means at my command have been employed , and shall continue to be employed , to execute the laws against the African slave trade . After a most careful and rigorous examination of our coasts and a thorough investigation of the subject , we have not been able to discover that any slaves have been imported into the United States except the cargo by the Wanderer , numbering between three and four hundred . Those engaged in this unlawful enterprise have been rigorously prosecuted , but not with as much success as their crimes have deserved . A number of them are still under prosecution . Our history proves that the fathers of the Republic , in advance of all other nations , condemned the African slave trade . It was , notwithstanding , deemed expedient by the framers of the Constitution to deprive Congress of the power to prohibit the migration or importation of such persons as any of the States now existing shall think proper to admit prior to the year 1808 . It will be seen that this restriction on the power of Congress was confined to such States only as might think proper to admit the importation of slaves . It did not extend to other States or to the trade carried on abroad . Accordingly , we find that so early as the 22d March , 1794 , Congress passed an act imposing severe penalties and punishments upon citizens and residents of the United States who should engage in this trade between foreign nations . The provisions of this act were extended and enforced by the act of 10th May , 1800 . Again , the States themselves had a clear right to waive the constitutional privilege intended for their benefit , and to prohibit by their own laws this trade at any time they thought proper previous to 1808 . Several of them exercised this right before that period , and among them some containing the greatest number of slaves . This gave to Congress the immediate power to act in regard to all such States , because they themselves had removed the constitutional barrier . Congress accordingly passed an act on 28th February , 1803 , to prevent the importation of certain persons into certain States where by the laws thereof their admission is prohibited . In this manner the importation of African slaves into the United States was to a great extent prohibited some years in advance of 1808 . As the year 1808 approached Congress determined not to suffer this trade to exist even for a single day after they had the power to abolish it . On the 2d of March , 1807 , they passed an act , to take effect from and after the 1st day of January , 1808 , prohibiting the importation of African slaves into the United States . This was followed by subsequent acts of a similar character , to which I need not specially refer . Such were the principles and such the practice of our ancestors more than fifty years ago in regard to the African slave trade . It did not occur to the revered patriots who had been delegates to the Convention , and afterwards became members of Congress , that in passing these laws they had violated the Constitution which they had framed with so much care and deliberation . They supposed that to prohibit Congress in express terms from exercising a specified power before an appointed day necessarily involved the right to exercise this power after that day had arrived . If this were not the case , the framers of the Constitution had expended much labor in vain . Had they imagined that Congress would possess no power to prohibit the trade either before or after 1808 , they would not have taken so much care to protect the States against the exercise of this power before that period . Nay , more , they would not have attached such vast importance to this provision as to have excluded it from the possibility of future repeal or amendment , to which other portions of the Constitution were exposed . It would , then , have been wholly unnecessary to ingraft on the fifth article of the Constitution , prescribing the mode of its own future amendment , the proviso that no amendment which may be made prior to the year 1808 shall in any manner affect the provision in the Constitution securing to the States the right to admit the importation of African slaves previous to that period . According to the adverse construction , the clause itself , on which so much care and discussion had been employed by the members of the Convention , was an absolute nullity from the beginning , and all that has since been done under it a mere usurpation . It was well and wise to confer this power on Congress , because had it been left to the States its efficient exercise would have been impossible . In that event any one State could have effectually continued the trade , not only for itself , but for all the other slave States , though never so much against their will . And why Because African slaves , when once brought within the limits of any one State in accordance with its laws , can not practically be excluded from any State where slavery exists . And even if all the States had separately passed laws prohibiting the importation of slaves , these laws would have failed of effect for want of a naval force to capture the slavers and to guard the coast . Such a force no State can employ in time of peace without the consent of Congress . These acts of Congress , it is believed , have , with very rare and insignificant exceptions , accomplished their purpose . For a period of more than half a century there has been no perceptible addition to the number of our domestic slaves . During this period their advancement in civilization has far surpassed that of any other portion of the African race . The light and the blessings of Christianity have been extended to them , and both their moral and physical condition has been greatly improved . Reopen the trade and it would be difficult to determine whether the effect would be more deleterious on the interests of the master or on those of the native born slave . Of the evils to the master , the one most to be dreaded would be the introduction of wild , heathen , and ignorant barbarians among the sober , orderly , and quiet slaves whose ancestors have been on the soil for several generations . This might tend to barbarize , demoralize , and exasperate the whole mass and produce most deplorable consequences . The effect upon the existing slave would , if possible , be still more deplorable . At present he is treated with kindness and humanity . He is well fed , well clothed , and not overworked . His condition is incomparably better than that of the coolies which modern nations of high civilization have employed as a substitute for African slaves . Both the philanthropy and the self interest of the master have combined to produce this humane result . But let this trade be reopened and what will be the effect The same to a considerable extent as on a neighboring island , the only spot now on earth where the African slave trade is openly tolerated , and this in defiance of solemn treaties with a power abundantly able at any moment to enforce their execution . There the master , intent upon present gain , extorts from the slave as much labor as his physical powers are capable of enduring , knowing that when death comes to his relief his place can be supplied at a price reduced to the lowest point by the competition of rival African slave traders . Should this ever be the case in our country , which I do not deem possible , the present useful character of the domestic institution , wherein those too old and too young to work are provided for with care and humanity and those capable of labor are not overtasked , would undergo an unfortunate change . The feeling of reciprocal dependence and attachment which now exists between master and slave would be converted into mutual distrust and hostility . But we are obliged as a Christian and moral nation to consider what would be the effect upon unhappy Africa itself if we should reopen the slave trade . This would give the trade an impulse and extension which it has never had , even in its palmiest days . The numerous victims required to supply it would convert the whole slave coast into a perfect pandemonium , for which this country would be held responsible in the eyes both of God and man . Its petty tribes would then be constantly engaged in predatory wars against each other for the purpose of seizing slaves to supply the American market . All hopes of African civilization would thus be ended . On the other hand , when a market for African slaves shall no longer be furnished in Cuba , and thus all the world be closed against this trade , we may then indulge a reasonable hope for the gradual improvement of Africa . The chief motive of war among the tribes will cease whenever there is no longer any demand for slaves . The resources of that fertile but miserable country might then be developed by the hand of industry and afford subjects for legitimate foreign and domestic commerce . In this manner Christianity and civilization may gradually penetrate the existing gloom . The wisdom of the course pursued by this Government toward China has been vindicated by the event . Whilst we sustained a neutral position in the war waged by Great Britain and France against the Chinese Empire , our late minister , in obedience to his instructions , judiciously cooperated with the ministers of these powers in all peaceful measures to secure by treaty the just concessions demanded by the interests of foreign commerce . The result is that satisfactory treaties have been concluded with China by the respective ministers of the United States , Great Britain , France , and Russia . Our treaty , or general convention , of peace , amity , and commerce with that Empire was concluded at Tien tsin on the 18th June , 1858 , and was ratified by the President , by and with the advice and consent of the Senate , on the 21st December following . On the 15th December , 1858 , John Ward , a distinguished citizen of Georgia , was duly commissioned as envoy extraordinary and minister plenipotentiary to China . He left the United States for the place of his destination on the 5th of February , 1859 , bearing with him the ratified copy of this treaty , and arrived at Shanghai on the 28th May . From thence he proceeded to Peking on the 16th June , but did not arrive in that city until the 27th July . According to the terms of the treaty , the ratifications were to be exchanged on or before the 18th June , 1859 . This was rendered impossible by reasons and events beyond his control , not necessary to detail but still it is due to the Chinese authorities at Shanghai to state that they always assured him no advantage should be taken of the delay , and this pledge has been faithfully redeemed . On the arrival of Ward at Peking he requested an audience of the Emperor to present his letter of credence . This he did not obtain , in consequence of his very proper refusal to submit to the humiliating ceremonies required by the etiquette of this strange people in approaching their sovereign . Nevertheless , the interviews on this question were conducted in the most friendly spirit and with all due regard to his personal feelings and the honor of his country . When a presentation to His Majesty was found to be impossible , the letter of credence from the President was received with peculiar honors by Kweiliang , the Emperor s prime minister and the second man in the Empire to the Emperor himself . The ratifications of the treaty were afterwards , on the 16th of August , exchanged in proper form at Peit sang . As the exchange did not take place until after the day prescribed by the treaty , it is deemed proper before its publication again to submit it to the Senate . It is but simple justice to the Chinese authorities to observe that throughout the whole transaction they appear to have acted in good faith and in a friendly spirit toward the United States . It is true this has been done after their own peculiar fashion but we ought to regard with a lenient eye the ancient customs of an empire dating back for thousands of years , so far as this may be consistent with our own national honor . The conduct of our minister on the occasion has received my entire approbation . In order to carry out the spirit of this treaty and to give it full effect it became necessary to conclude two supplemental conventions , the one for the adjustment and satisfaction of the claims of our citizens and the other to fix the tariff on imports and exports and to regulate the transit duties and trade of our merchants with China . This duty was satisfactorily performed by our late minister . These conventions bear date at Shanghai on the 8th November , 1858 . Having been considered in the light of binding agreements subsidiary to the principal treaty , and to be carried into execution without delay , they do not provide for any formal ratification or exchange of ratifications by the contracting parties . This was not deemed necessary by the Chinese , who are already proceeding in good faith to satisfy the claims of our citizens and , it is hoped , to carry out the other provisions of the conventions . Still , I thought it was proper to submit them to the Senate by which they were ratified on the 3d of March , 1859 . The ratified copies , however , did not reach Shanghai until after the departure of our minister to Peking , and these conventions could not , therefore , be exchanged at the same time with the principal treaty . No doubt is entertained that they will be ratified and exchanged by the Chinese Government should this be thought advisable but under the circumstances presented I shall consider them binding engagements from their date on both parties , and cause them to be published as such for the information and guidance of our merchants trading with the Chinese Empire . It affords me much satisfaction to inform you that all our difficulties with the Republic of Paraguay have been satisfactorily adjusted . It happily did not become necessary to employ the force for this purpose which Congress had placed at my command under the joint resolution of 2d June , 1858 . On the contrary , the President of that Republic , in a friendly spirit , acceded promptly to the just and reasonable demands of the Government of the United States . Our commissioner arrived at Assumption , the capital of the Republic , on the 25th of January , 1859 , and left it on the 17th of February , having in three weeks ably and successfully accomplished all the objects of his mission . The treaties which he has concluded will be immediately submitted to the Senate . In the view that the employment of other than peaceful means might become necessary to obtain just satisfaction from Paraguay , a strong naval force was concentrated in the waters of the La Plata to await contingencies whilst our commissioner ascended the rivers to Assumption . The Navy Department is entitled to great credit for the promptness , efficiency , and economy with which this expedition was fitted out and conducted . It consisted of 19 armed vessels , great and small , carrying 200 guns and 2 , 500 men , all under the command of the veteran and gallant Shubrick . The entire expenses of the expedition have been defrayed out of the ordinary appropriations for the naval service , except the sum of 289 , 000 , applied to the purchase of seven of the steamers constituting a part of it , under the authority of the naval appropriation act of the 3d March last . It is believed that these steamers are worth more than their cost , and they are all now usefully and actively employed in the naval service . The appearance of so large a force , fitted out in such a prompt manner , in the far distant waters of the La Plata , and the admirable conduct of the officers and men employed in it , have had a happy effect in favor of our country throughout all that remote portion of the world . Our relations with the great Empires of France and Russia , as well as with all other governments on the continent of Europe , unless we may except that of Spain , happily continue to be of the most friendly character . In my last annual message I presented a statement of the unsatisfactory condition of our relations with Spain , and I regret to say that this has not materially improved . Without special reference to other claims , even the Cuban claims , the payment of which has been ably urged by our ministers , and in which more than a hundred of our citizens are directly interested , remain unsatisfied , notwithstanding both their justice and their amount 128 , 635 . 54 had been recognized and ascertained by the Spanish Government itself . I again recommend that an appropriation be made to be paid to the Spanish Government for the purpose of distribution among the claimants in the Amistad case . In common with two of my predecessors , I entertain no doubt that this is required by our treaty with Spain of the 27th October , 1795 . The failure to discharge this obligation has been employed by the cabinet of Madrid as a reason against the settlement of our claims . I need not repeat the arguments which I urged in my last annual message in favor of the acquisition of Cuba by fair purchase . My opinions on that measure remain unchanged . I therefore again invite the serious attention of Congress to this important subject . Without a recognition of this policy on their part it will be almost impossible to institute negotiations with any reasonable prospect of success . Until a recent period there was good reason to believe that I should be able to announce to you on the present occasion that our difficulties with Great Britain arising out of the Clayton and Bulwer treaty had been finally adjusted in a manner alike honorable and satisfactory to both parties . From causes , however , which the British Government had not anticipated , they have not yet completed treaty arrangements with the Republics of Honduras and Nicaragua , in pursuance of the understanding between the two Governments . It is , nevertheless , confidently expected that this good work will ere long be accomplished . Whilst indulging the hope that no other subject remained which could disturb the good understanding between the two countries , the question arising out of the adverse claims of the parties to the island of San Juan , under the Oregon treaty of the 15th June , 1846 , suddenly assumed a threatening prominence . In order to prevent unfortunate collisions on that remote frontier , the late Secretary of State , on the 17th July , 1855 , addressed a note to Crampton , then British minister at Washington , communicating to him a copy of the instructions which he Marcy had given on the 14th July to Governor Stevens , of Washington Territory , having a special reference to an apprehended conflict between our citizens and the British subjects on the island of San Juan . To prevent this the governor was instructed that the officers of the Territory should abstain from all acts on the disputed grounds which are calculated to provoke any conflicts , so far as it can be done without implying the concession to the authorities of Great Britain of an exclusive right over the premises . The title ought to be settled before either party should attempt to exclude the other by force or exercise complete and exclusive sovereign rights within the fairly disputed limits . In acknowledging the receipt on the next day of Marcy s note the British minister expressed his entire concurrence in the propriety of the course recommended to the governor of Washington Territory by your Marcy s instructions to that officer , and stating that he had lost no time in transmitting a copy of that document to the Governor General of British North America and had earnestly recommended to His Excellency to take such measures as to him may appear best calculated to secure on the part of the British local authorities and the inhabitants of the neighborhood of the line in question the exercise of the same spirit of forbearance which is inculcated by you Marcy on the authorities and citizens of the United States . Thus matters remained upon the faith of this arrangement until the 9th July last , when General Harney paid a visit to the island . He found upon it twenty five American residents with their families , and also an establishment of the Hudsons Bay Company for the purpose of raising sheep . A short time before his arrival one of these residents had shot an animal belonging to the company whilst trespassing upon his premises , for which , however , he offered to pay twice its value , but that was refused . Soon after the chief factor of the company at Victoria , Dalles , son in law of Governor Douglas , came to the island in the British sloop of war Satellite and threatened to take this American Cutler by force to Victoria to answer for the trespass he had committed . The American seized his rifle and told Dalles if any such attempt was made he would kill him upon the spot . The affair then ended . Under these circumstances the American settlers presented a petition to the General through the United States inspector of customs , Hubbs , to place a force upon the island to protect them from the Indians as well as the oppressive interference of the authorities of the Hudsons Bay Company at Victoria with their rights as American citizens . The General immediately responded to this petition , and ordered Captain George Pickett , Ninth Infantry , to establish his company on Bellevue , or San Juan Island , on some suitable position near the harbor at the southeastern extremity . This order was promptly obeyed and a military post was established at the place designated . The force was afterwards increased , so that by the last return the whole number of troops then on the island amounted in the aggregate to 691 men . Whilst I do not deem it proper on the present occasion to go further into the subject and discuss the weight which ought to be attached to the statements of the British colonial authorities contesting the accuracy of the information on which the gallant General acted , it was due to him that I should thus present his own reasons for issuing the order to Captain Pickett . From these it is quite clear his object was to prevent the British authorities on Vancouvers Island from exercising jurisdiction over American residents on the island of San Juan , as well as to protect them against the incursions of the Indians . Much excitement prevailed for some time throughout that region , and serious danger of collision between the parties was apprehended . The British had a large naval force in the vicinity , and it is but an act of simple justice to the admiral on that station to state that he wisely and discreetly forbore to commit any hostile act , but determined to refer the whole affair to his Government and await their instructions . This aspect of the matter , in my opinion , demanded serious attention . It would have been a great calamity for both nations had they been precipitated into acts of hostility , not on the question of title to the island , but merely concerning what should be its condition during the intervening period whilst the two Governments might be employed in settling the question to which of them it belongs . For this reason Lieutenant General Scott was dispatched , on the 17th of September last , to Washington Territory to take immediate command of the United States forces on the Pacific Coast , should he deem this necessary . The main object of his mission was to carry out the spirit of the precautionary arrangement between the late Secretary of State and the British minister , and thus to preserve the peace and prevent collision between the British and American authorities pending the negotiations between the two Governments . Entertaining no doubt of the validity of our title , I need scarcely add that in any event American citizens were to be placed on a footing at least as favorable as that of British subjects , it being understood that Captain Pickett s company should remain on the island . It is proper to observe that , considering the distance from the scene of action and in ignorance of what might have transpired on the spot before the General s arrival , it was necessary to leave much to his discretion and I am happy to state the event has proven that this discretion could not have been intrusted to more competent hands . General Scott has recently returned from his mission , having successfully accomplished its objects , and there is no longer any good reason to apprehend a collision between the forces of the two countries during the pendency of the existing negotiations . I regret to inform you that there has been no improvement in the affairs of Mexico since my last annual message , and I am again obliged to ask the earnest attention of Congress to the unhappy condition of that Republic . The constituent Congress of Mexico , which adjourned on the 17th February , 1857 , adopted a constitution and provided for a popular election . This took place in the following July 1857 , and General Comonfort was chosen President almost without opposition . At the same election a new Congress was chosen , whose first session commenced on the 16th of September 1857 . By the constitution of 1857 the Presidential term was to begin on the 1st of December 1857 and continue for four years . On that day General Comonfort appeared before the assembled Congress in the City of Mexico , took the oath to support the new constitution , and was duly inaugurated as President . Within a month afterwards he had been driven from the capital and a military rebellion had assigned the supreme power of the Republic to General Zuloaga . The constitution provided that in the absence of the President his office should devolve upon the chief justice of the supreme court and General Comonfort having left the country , this functionary , General Juarez , proceeded to form at Guanajuato a constitutional Government . Before this was officially known , however , at the capital the Government of Zuloaga had been recognized by the entire diplomatic corps , including the minister of the United States , as the de facto Government of Mexico . The constitutional President , nevertheless , maintained his position with firmness , and was soon established , with his cabinet , at Vera Cruz . Meanwhile the Government of Zuloaga was earnestly resisted in many parts of the Republic , and even in the capital , a portion of the army having pronounced against it , its functions were declared terminated , and an assembly of citizens was invited for the choice of a new President . This assembly elected General Miramort , but that officer repudiated the plan under which he was chosen , and Zuloaga was thus restored to his previous position . He assumed it , however , only to withdraw from it and Miramon , having become by his appointment President substitute , continues with that title at the head of the insurgent party . In my last annual message I communicated to Congress the circumstances under which the late minister of the United States suspended his official relations with the central Government and withdrew from the country . It was impossible to maintain friendly intercourse with a government like that at the capital , under whose usurped authority wrongs were constantly committed , but never redressed . Had this been an established government , with its power extending by the consent of the people over the whole of Mexico , a resort to hostilities against it would have been quite justifiable , and , indeed , necessary . But the country was a prey to civil war , and it was hoped that the success of the constitutional President might lead to a condition of things less injurious to the United States . This success became so probable that in January last I employed a reliable agent to visit Mexico and report to me the actual condition and prospects of the contending parties . In consequence of his report and from information which reached me from other sources favorable to the prospects of the constitutional cause , I felt justified in appointing a new minister to Mexico , who might embrace the earliest suitable opportunity of restoring our diplomatic relations with that Republic . For this purpose a distinguished citizen of Maryland was selected , who proceeded on his mission on the 8th of March last , with discretionary authority to recognize the Government of President Juarez if on his arrival in Mexico he should find it entitled to such recognition according to the established practice of the United States . On the 7th of April following McLane presented his credentials to President Juarez , having no hesitation in pronouncing the Government of Juarez to be the only existing government of the Republic . He was cordially received by the authorities at Vera Cruz , and they have ever since manifested the most friendly disposition toward the United States . Unhappily , however , the constitutional Government has not been able to establish its power over the whole Republic . It is supported by a large majority of the people and the States , but there are important parts of the country where it can enforce no obedience . General Miramon maintains himself at the capital , and in some of the distant Provinces there are military governors who pay little respect to the decrees of either Government . In the meantime the excesses which always attend upon civil war , especially in Mexico , are constantly recurring . Outrages of the worst description are committed both upon persons and property . There is scarcely any form of injury which has not been suffered by our citizens in Mexico during the last few years . We have been nominally at peace with that Republic , but so far as the interests of our commerce , or of our citizens who have visited the country as merchants , shipmasters , or in other capacities , are concerned , we might as well have been at war . Life has been insecure , property unprotected , and trade impossible except at a risk of loss which prudent men can not be expected to incur . Important contracts , involving large expenditures , entered into by the central Government , have been set at defiance by the local governments . Peaceful American residents , occupying their rightful possessions , have been suddenly expelled the country , in defiance of treaties and by the mere force of arbitrary power . Even the course of justice has not been safe from control , and a recent decree of Miramort permits the intervention of Government in all suits where either party is a foreigner . Vessels of the United States have been seized without law , and a consular officer who protested against such seizure has been fined and imprisoned for disrespect to the authorities . Military contributions have been levied in violation of every principle of right , and the American who resisted the lawless demand has had his property forcibly taken away and has been himself banished . From a conflict of authority in different parts of the country tariff duties which have been paid in one place have been exacted over again in another place . Large numbers of our citizens have been arrested and imprisoned without any form of examination or any opportunity for a hearing , and even when released have only obtained their liberty after much suffering and injury , and without any hope of redress . The wholesale massacre of Crabbe and his associates without trial in Sonora , as well as the seizure and murder of four sick Americans who had taken shelter in the house of an American upon the soil of the United States , was communicated to Congress at its last session . Murders of a still more atrocious character have been committed in the very heart of Mexico , under the authority of Miramon s Government , during the present year . Some of these were only worthy of a barbarous age , and if they had not been dearly proven would have seemed impossible in a country which claims to be civilized . Of this description was the brutal massacre in April last , by order of General Marquez , of three American physicians who were seized in the hospital at Tacubaya while attending upon the sick and the dying of both parties , and without trial , as without crime , were hurried away to speedy execution . Little less shocking was the recent fate of Ormond Chase , who was shot in Tepic on the 7th of August by order of the same Mexican general , not only without a trial , but without any conjecture by his friends of the cause of his arrest . He is represented as a young man of good character and intelligence , who had made numerous friends in Tepic by the courage and humanity which he had displayed on several trying occasions and his death was as unexpected as it was shocking to the whole community . Other outrages might be enumerated , but these are sufficient to illustrate the wretched state of the country and the unprotected condition of the persons and property of our citizens in Mexico . In all these cases our ministers have been constant and faithful in their demands for redress , but both they and this Government , which they have successively represented , have been wholly powerless to make their demands effective . Their testimony in this respect and in reference to the only remedy which in their judgments would meet the exigency has been both uniform and emphatic . Nothing but a manifestation of the power of the Government of the United States , wrote our late minister in 1856 , and of its purpose to punish these wrongs will avail . I assure you that the universal belief here is that there is nothing to be apprehended from the Government of the United States , and that local Mexican officials can commit these outrages upon American citizens with absolute impunity . I hope the President , wrote our present minister in August last , will feel authorized to ask from Congress the power to enter Mexico with the military forces of the United States at the call of the constitutional authorities , in order to protect the citizens and the treaty rights of the United States . Unless such a power is conferred upon him , neither the one nor the other will be respected in the existing state of anarchy and disorder , and the outrages already perpetrated will never be chastised and , as I assured you in my No . 23 , all these evils must increase until every vestige of order and government disappears from the country . I have been reluctantly led to the same opinion , and in justice to my countrymen who have suffered wrongs from Mexico and who may still suffer them I feel bound to announce this conclusion to Congress . The case presented , however , is not merely a case of individual claims , although our just claims against Mexico have reached a very large amount nor is it merely the case of protection to the lives and property of the few Americans who may still remain in Mexico , although the life and property of every American citizen ought to be sacredly protected in every quarter of the world but it is a question which relates to the future as well as to the present and the past , and which involves , indirectly at least , the whole subject of our duty to Mexico as a neighboring State . The exercise of the power of the United States in that country to redress the wrongs and protect the rights of our own citizens is none the less to be desired because efficient and necessary aid may thus be rendered at the same time to restore peace and order to Mexico itself . In the accomplishment of this result the people of the United States must necessarily feel a deep and earnest interest . Mexico ought to be a rich and prosperous and powerful Republic . She possesses an extensive territory , a fertile soil , and an incalculable store of mineral wealth . She occupies an important position between the Gulf and the ocean for transit routes and for commerce . Is it possible that such a country as this can be given up to anarchy and ruin without an effort from any quarter for its rescue and its safety Will the commercial nations of the world , which have so many interests connected with it , remain wholly indifferent to such a result Can the United States especially , which ought to share most largely in its commercial intercourse , allow their immediate neighbor thus to destroy itself and injure them Yet without support from some quarter it is impossible to perceive how Mexico can resume her position among nations and enter upon a career which promises any good results . The aid which she requires , and which the interests of all commercial countries require that she should have , it belongs to this Government to render , not only by virtue of our neighborhood to Mexico , along whose territory we have a continuous frontier of nearly a thousand miles , but by virtue also of our established policy , which is inconsistent with the intervention of any European power in the domestic concerns of that Republic . The wrongs which we have suffered from Mexico are before the world and must deeply impress every American citizen . A government which is either unable or unwilling to redress such wrongs is derelict to its highest duties . The difficulty consists in selecting and enforcing the remedy . We may in vain apply to the constitutional Government at Vera Cruz , although it is well disposed to do us justice , for adequate redress . Whilst its authority is acknowledged in all the important ports and throughout the seacoasts of the Republic , its power does not extend to the City of Mexico and the States in its vicinity , where nearly all the recent outrages have been committed on American citizens . We must penetrate into the interior before we can reach the offenders , and this can only be done by passing through the territory in the occupation of the constitutional Government . The most acceptable and least difficult mode of accomplishing the object will be to act in concert with that Government . Their consent and their aid might , I believe , be obtained but if not , our obligation to protect our own citizens in their just rights secured by treaty would not be the less imperative . For these reasons I recommend to Congress to pass a law authorizing the President under such conditions as they may deem expedient , to employ a sufficient military force to enter Mexico for the purpose of obtaining indemnity for the past and security for the future . I purposely refrain from any suggestion as to whether this force shall consist of regular troops or volunteers , or both . This question may be most appropriately left to the decision of Congress . I would merely observe that should volunteers be selected such a force could be easily raised in this country among those who sympathize with the sufferings of our unfortunate fellow citizens in Mexico and with the unhappy condition of that Republic . Such an accession to the forces of the constitutional Government would enable it soon to reach the City of Mexico and extend its power over the whole Republic . In that event there is no reason to doubt that the just claims of our citizens would be satisfied and adequate redress obtained for the injuries inflicted upon them . The constitutional Government have ever evinced a strong desire to do justice , and this might be secured in advance by a preliminary treaty . It may be said that these measures will , at least indirectly , be inconsistent with our wise and settled policy not to interfere in the domestic concerns of foreign nations . But does not the present case fairly constitute an exception An adjoining Republic is in a state of anarchy and confusion from which she has proved wholly unable to extricate herself . She is entirely destitute of the power to maintain peace upon her borders or to prevent the incursions of banditti into our territory . In her fate and in her fortune , in her power to establish and maintain a settled government , we have a far deeper interest , socially , commercially , and politically , than any other nation . She is now a wreck upon the ocean , drifting about as she is impelled by different factions . As a good neighbor , shall we not extend to her a helping hand to save her If we do not , it would not be surprising should some other nation undertake the task , and thus force us to interfere at last , under circumstances of increased difficulty , for the maintenance of our established policy . I repeat the recommendation contained in my last annual message that authority may be given to the President to establish one or more temporary military posts across the Mexican line in Sonora and Chihuahua , where these may be necessary to protect the lives and property of American and Mexican citizens against the incursions and depredations of the Indians , as well as of lawless rovers , on that remote region . The establishment of one such post at a point called Arispe , in Sonora , in a country now almost depopulated by the hostile inroads of the Indians from our side of the line , would , it is believed , have prevented much injury and many cruelties during the past season . A state of lawlessness and violence prevails on that distant frontier . Life and property are there wholly insecure . The population of Arizona , now numbering more than 10 , 000 souls , are practically destitute of government , of laws , or of any regular administration of justice . Murder , rapine , and other crimes are committed with impunity . I therefore again call the attention of Congress to the necessity for establishing a Territorial government over Arizona . The treaty with Nicaragua of the 16th of February , 1857 , to which I referred in my last annual message , failed to receive the ratification of the Government of that Republic , for reasons which I need not enumerate . A similar treaty has been since concluded between the parties , bearing date on the 16th March , 1859 , which has already been ratified by the Nicaraguan Congress . This will be immediately submitted to the Senate for their ratification . Its provisions can not , I think , fail to be acceptable to the people of both countries . Our claims against the Governments of Costa Rica and Nicaragua remain unredressed , though they are pressed in an earnest manner and not without hope of success . I deem it to be my duty once more earnestly to recommend to Congress the passage of a law authorizing the President to employ the naval force at his command for the purpose of protecting the lives and property of American citizens passing in transit across the Panama , Nicaragua , and Tehuantepec routes against sudden and lawless outbreaks and depredations . I shall not repeat the arguments employed in former messages in support of this measure . Suffice it to say that the lives of many of our people and the security of vast amounts of treasure passing and repassing over one or more of these routes between the Atlantic and Pacific may be deeply involved in the action of Congress on this subject . I would also again recommend to Congress that authority be given to the President to employ the naval force to protect American merchant vessels , their crews and cargoes , against violent and lawless seizure and confiscation in the ports of Mexico and the Spanish American States when these countries may be in a disturbed and revolutionary condition . The mere knowledge that such an authority had been conferred , as I have already stated , would of itself in a great degree prevent the evil . Neither would this require any additional appropriation for the naval service . The chief objection urged against the grant of this authority is that Congress by conferring it would violate the Constitution that it would be a transfer of the war making , or , strictly speaking , the war declaring , power to the Executive . If this were well rounded , it would , of course , be conclusive . A very brief examination , however , will place this objection at rest . Congress possess the sole and exclusive power under the Constitution to declare war . They alone can raise and support armies and provide and maintain a navy . But after Congress shall have declared war and provided the force necessary to carry it on the President , as Commander in Chief of the Army and Navy , can alone employ this force in making war against the enemy . This is the plain language , and history proves that it was the well known intention of the framers , of the Constitution . It will not be denied that the general power to declare war is without limitation and embraces within itself not only what writers on the law of nations term a public or perfect war , but also an imperfect war , and , in short , every species of hostility , however confined or limited . Without the authority of Congress the President can not fire a hostile gun in any case except to repel the attacks of an enemy . It will not be doubted that under this power Congress could , if they thought proper , authorize the President to employ the force at his command to seize a vessel belonging to an American citizen which had been illegally and unjustly captured in a foreign port and restore it to its owner . But can Congress only act after the fact , after the mischief has been done Have they no power to confer upon the President the authority in advance to furnish instant redress should such a case afterwards occur Must they wait until the mischief has been done , and can they apply the remedy only when it is too late To confer this authority to meet future cases under circumstances strictly specified is as clearly within the war declaring power as such an authority conferred upon the President by act of Congress after the deed had been done . In the progress of a great nation many exigencies must arise imperatively requiring that Congress should authorize the President to act promptly on certain conditions which may or may not afterwards arise . Our history has already presented a number of such cases . I shall refer only to the latest . Under the resolution of June 2 , 1858 , for the adjustment of difficulties with the Republic of Paraguay , the President is authorized to adopt such measures and use such force as in his judgment may be necessary and advisable in the event of a refusal of just satisfaction by the Government of Paraguay . Just satisfaction for what For the attack on the United States steamer Water Witch and other matters referred to in the annual message of the President . Here the power is expressly granted upon the condition that the Government of Paraguay shall refuse to render this just satisfaction . In this and other similar cases Congress have conferred upon the President power in advance to employ the Army and Navy upon the happening of contingent future events and this most certainly is embraced within the power to declare war . Now , if this conditional and contingent power could be constitutionally conferred upon the President in the case of Paraguay , why may it not be conferred for the purpose of protecting the lives and property of American citizens in the event that they may be violently and unlawfully attacked in passing over the transit routes to and from California or assailed by the seizure of their vessels in a foreign port To deny this power is to render the Navy in a great degree useless for the protection of the lives and property of American citizens in countries where neither protection nor redress can be otherwise obtained . The Thirty fifth Congress terminated on the 3d of March , 1859 , without having passed the act making appropriations for the service of the Post Office Department during the fiscal year ending the 30th of June , 1860 , This act also contained an appropriation to supply deficiencies in the revenue of the Post Office Department for the year ending 30th June , 1859 . I believe this is the first instance since the origin of the Federal Government , now more than seventy years ago , when any Congress went out of existence without having passed all the general appropriation bills necessary to carry on the Government until the regular period for the meeting of a new Congress . This event imposed on the Executive a grave responsibility . It presented a choice of evils . Had this omission of duty occurred at the first session of the last Congress , the remedy would have been plain . I might then have instantly recalled them to complete their work , and this without expense to the Government . But on the 4th of March last there were fifteen of the thirty three States which had not elected any Representatives to the present Congress . Had Congress been called together immediately , these States would have been virtually disfranchised . If an intermediate period had been selected , several of the States would have been compelled to hold extra sessions of their legislatures , at great inconvenience and expense , to provide for elections at an earlier day than that previously fixed by law . In the regular course ten of these States would not elect until after the beginning of August , and five of these ten not until October and November . On the other hand , when I came to examine carefully the condition of the Post Office Department , I did not meet as many or as great difficulties as I had apprehended . Had the bill which failed been confined to appropriations for the fiscal year ending on the 30th June next , there would have been no reason of pressing importance for the call of an extra session . Nothing would become due on contracts those with railroad companies only excepted for carrying the mail for the first quarter of the present fiscal year , commencing on the 1st of July , until the 1st of December less than one week before the meeting of the present Congress . The reason is that the mail contractors for this and the current year did not complete their first quarter s service until the 30th September last , and by the terms of their contracts sixty days more are allowed for the settlement of their accounts before the Department could be called upon for payment . The great difficulty and the great hardship consisted in the failure to provide for the payment of the deficiency in the fiscal year ending the 30th June , 1859 . The Department had entered into contracts , in obedience to existing laws , for the service of that fiscal year , and the contractors were fairly entitled to their compensation as it became due . The deficiency as stated in the bill amounted to 3 , 838 , 728 , but after a careful settlement of all these accounts it has been ascertained that it amounts to 4 , 296 , 009 . With the scanty means at his command the Postmaster General has managed to pay that portion of this deficiency which occurred in the first two quarters of the past fiscal year , ending on the 31st December last . In the meantime the contractors themselves , under these trying circumstances , have behaved in a manner worthy of all commendation . They had one resource in the midst of their embarrassments . After the amount due to each of them had been ascertained and finally settled according to law , this became a specific debt of record against the United States , which enabled them to borrow money on this unquestionable security . Still , they were obliged to pay interest in consequence of the default of Congress , and on every principle of justice ought to receive interest from the Government . This interest should commence from the date when a warrant would have issued for the payment of the principal had an appropriation been made for this purpose . Calculated up to the 1st December , it will not exceed 96 , 660 a sum not to be taken into account when contrasted with the great difficulties and embarrassments of a public and private character , both to the people and the States , which would have resulted from convening and holding a special session of Congress . For these reasons I recommend the passage of a bill at as early a day as may be practicable to provide for the payment of the amount , with interest , due to these last mentioned contractors , as well as to make the necessary appropriations for the service of the Post Office Department for the current fiscal year . The failure to pass the Post Office bill necessarily gives birth to serious reflections . Congress , by refusing to pass the general appropriation bills necessary to carry on the Government , may not only arrest its action , but might even destroy its existence . The Army , the Navy , the judiciary , in short , every department of the Government , can no longer perform their functions if Congress refuse the money necessary for their support . If this failure should teach the country the necessity of electing a full Congress in sufficient time to enable the President to convene them in any emergency , even immediately after the old Congress has expired , it will have been productive of great good . In a time of sudden and alarming danger , foreign or domestic , which all nations must expect to encounter in their progress , the very salvation of our institutions may be staked upon the assembling of Congress without delay . If under such circumstances the President should find himself in the condition in which he was placed at the close of the last Congress , with nearly half the States of the Union destitute of representatives , the consequences might he disastrous . I therefore recommend to Congress to carry into effect the provisions of the Constitution on this subject , and to pass a law appointing some day previous to the 4th March in each year of odd number for the election of Representatives throughout all the States . They have already appointed a day for the election of electors for President and Vice President , and this measure has been approved by the country . I would again express a most decided opinion in favor of the construction of a Pacific railroad , for the reasons stated in my two last annual messages . When I reflect upon what would be the defenseless condition of our States and Territories west of the Rocky Mountains in case of a war with a naval power sufficiently strong to interrupt all intercourse with them by the routes across the Isthmus , I am still more convinced than ever of the vast importance of this railroad . I have never doubted the constitutional competency of Congress to provide for its construction , but this exclusively under the war making power . Besides , the Constitution expressly requires as an imperative duty that the United States shall protect each of them the States against invasion . I am at a loss to conceive how this protection can be afforded to California and Oregon against such a naval power by any other means . I repeat the opinion contained in my last annual message that it would be inexpedient for the Government to undertake this great work by agents of its own appointment and under its direct and exclusive control . This would increase the patronage of the Executive to a dangerous extent and would foster a system of jobbing and corruption which no vigilance on the part of Federal officials could prevent . The construction of this road ought , therefore , to be intrusted to incorporated companies or other agencies who would exercise that active and vigilant supervision over it which can be inspired alone by a sense of corporate and individual interest . I venture to assert that the additional cost of transporting troops , munitions of war , and necessary supplies for the Army across the vast intervening plains to our possessions on the Pacific Coast would be greater in such a war than the whole amount required to construct the road . And yet this resort would after all be inadequate for their defense and protection . We have yet scarcely recovered from the habits of extravagant expenditure produced by our overflowing Treasury during several years prior to the commencement of my Administration . The financial reverses which we have since experienced ought to teach us all to scrutinize our expenditures with the greatest vigilance and to reduce them to the lowest possible point . The Executive Departments of the Government have devoted themselves to the accomplishment of this object with considerable success , as will appear from their different reports and estimates . To these I invite the scrutiny of Congress , for the purpose of reducing them still lower , if this be practicable consistent with the great public interests of the country . In aid of the policy of retrenchment , I pledge myself to examine closely the bills appropriating lands or money , so that if any of these should inadvertently pass both Houses , as must sometimes be the case , I may afford them an opportunity for reconsideration . At the same time , we ought never to forget that true public economy consists not in withholding the means necessary to accomplish important national objects confided to us by the Constitution , but in taking care that the money appropriated for these purposes shall be faithfully and frugally expended . It will appear from the report of the Secretary of the Treasury that it is extremely doubtful , to say the least , whether we shall be able to pass through the present and the next fiscal year without providing additional revenue . This can only be accomplished by strictly confining the appropriations within the estimates of the different Departments , without making an allowance for any additional expenditures which Congress may think proper , in their discretion , to authorize , and without providing for the redemption of any portion of the 20 , 000 , 000 of Treasury notes which have been already issued . In the event of a deficiency , which I consider probable , this ought never to be supplied by a resort to additional loans . It would be a ruinous practice in the days of peace and prosperity to go on increasing the national debt to meet the ordinary expenses of the Government . This policy would cripple our resources and impair our credit in case the existence of war should render it necessary to borrow money . Should such a deficiency occur as I apprehend , I would recommend that the necessary revenue be raised by an increase of our present duties on imports . I need not repeat the opinions expressed in my last annual message as to the best mode and manner of accomplishing this object , and shall now merely observe that these have since undergone no change . The report of the Secretary of the Treasury will explain in detail the operations of that Department of the Government . The receipts into the Treasury from all sources during the fiscal year ending June 30 , 1859 , including the loan authorized by the act of June 14 , 1858 , and the issues of Treasury notes authorized by existing laws , were 81 , 692 , 471 . 01 , which sum , with the balance of 6 , 398 , 316 . 10 remaining in the Treasury at the commencement of that fiscal year , made an aggregate for the service of the year of 88 , 090 , 787 . 11 . The public expenditures during the fiscal year ending June 30 , 1859 , amounted to 83 , 751 , 511 . 57 . Of this sum 17 , 405 , 285 . 44 were applied to the payment of interest on the public debt and the redemption of the issues of Treasury notes . The expenditures for all other branches of the public service during that fiscal year were therefore 66 , 346 , 226 . 13 . The balance remaining in the Treasury on the 1st July , 1859 , being the commencement of the present fiscal year , was 4 , 339 , 275 . 54 . The receipts into the Treasury during the first quarter of the present fiscal year , commencing July 1 , 1859 , were 20 , 618 , 865 . 85 . Of this amount 3 , 821 , 300 was received on account of the loan and the issue of Treasury notes , the amount of 16 , 797 , 565 . 85 having been received during the quarter from the ordinary sources of public revenue . The estimated receipts for the remaining three quarters of the present fiscal year , to June 30 , 1860 , are 50 , 426 , 400 . Of this amount it is estimated that 5 , 756 , 400 will be received for Treasury notes which may be reissued under the fifth section of the act of 3d March last , and 1 , 170 , 000 on account of the loan authorized by the act of June 14 , 1858 , making 6 , 926 , 400 from these extraordinary sources , and 43 , 500 , 000 from the ordinary sources of the public revenue , making an aggregate , with the balance in the Treasury on the 1st July , 1859 , of 75 , 384 , 541 . 89 for the estimated means of the present fiscal year , ending June 30 , 1860 . The expenditures during the first quarter of the present fiscal year were 20 , 007 , 174 . 76 . Four million six hundred and sixty four thousand three hundred and sixty six dollars and seventy six cents of this sum were applied to the payment of interest on the public debt and the redemption of the issues of Treasury notes , and the remainder , being 15 , 342 , 808 , were applied to ordinary expenditures during the quarter . The estimated expenditures during the remaining three quarters , to June 30 , 1860 , are 40 , 995 , 558 . 23 , of which sum 2 , 886 , 621 . 34 are estimated for the interest on the public debt . The ascertained and estimated expenditures for the fiscal year ending June 30 , 1860 , on account of the public debt are accordingly 7 , 550 , 988 . 10 , and for the ordinary expenditures of the Government 53 , 451 , 744 . 89 , making an aggregate of 61 , 002 , 732 . 99 , leaving an estimated balance in the Treasury on June 30 , 1860 , of 14 , 381 , 808 . 40 . The estimated receipts during the next fiscal year , ending June 30 , 1861 , are 66 , 225 , 000 , which , with the balance estimated , as before stated , as remaining in the Treasury on the 30th June , 1860 , will make an aggregate for the service of the next fiscal year of 80 , 606 , 808 . 40 . The estimated expenditures during the next fiscal year , ending 30th June , 1861 , are 66 , 714 , 928 . 79 . Of this amount 3 , 386 , 621 . 34 will be required to pay the interest on the public debt , leaving the sum of 63 , 328 , 307 . 45 for the estimated ordinary expenditures during the fiscal year ending 30th June , 1861 . Upon these estimates a balance will be left in the Treasury on the 30th June , 1861 , of 13 , 891 , 879 . 61 . But this balance , as well as that estimated to remain in the Treasury on the 1st July , 1860 , will be reduced by such appropriations as shall be made by law to carry into effect certain Indian treaties during the present fiscal year , asked for by the Secretary of the Interior , to the amount of 539 , 350 and upon the estimates of the postmaster General for the service of his Department the last fiscal year , ending 30th June , 1859 , amounting to 4 , 296 , 009 , together with the further estimate of that officer for the service of the present fiscal year , ending 30th June , 1860 , being 5 , 526 , 324 , making an aggregate of 10 , 361 , 683 . Should these appropriations be made as requested by the proper Departments , the balance in the Treasury on the 30th June , 1861 , will not , it is estimated , exceed 3 , 530 , 196 . 61 . I transmit herewith the reports of the Secretaries of War , of the Navy , of the Interior , and of the postmaster General . They each contain valuable information and important recommendations well worthy of the serious consideration of Congress . It will appear from the report of the Secretary of War that the Army expenditures have been materially reduced by a system of rigid economy , which in his opinion offers every guaranty that the reduction will be permanent . The estimates of the Department for the next have been reduced nearly 2 , 000 , 000 below the estimates for the present fiscal year and 500 , 000 below the amount granted for this year at the last session of Congress . The expenditures of the Post Office Department during the past fiscal year , ending on the 30th June , 1859 , exclusive of payments for mail service specially provided for by Congress out of the general Treasury , amounted to 14 , 964 , 493 . 33 and its receipts to 7 , 968 , 484 . 07 , showing a deficiency to be supplied from the Treasury of 6 , 996 , 009 . 26 , against 5 , 235 , 677 . 15 for the year ending 30th June , 1858 . The increased cost of transportation , growing out of the expansion of the service required by Congress , explains this rapid augmentation of the expenditures . It is gratifying , however , to observe an increase of receipts for the year ending on the 30th of June , 1859 , equal to 481 , 691 . 21 compared with those in the year ending on the 30th June , 1858 . It is estimated that the deficiency for the current fiscal year will be 5 , 988 , 424 . 04 , but that for the year ending 30th June , 1861 , it will not exceed 1 , 342 , 473 . 90 should Congress adopt the measures of reform proposed and urged by the Postmaster General . Since the month of March retrenchments have been made in the expenditures amounting to 1 , 826 , 471 annually , which , however , did not take effect until after the commencement of the present fiscal year . The period seems to have arrived for determining the question whether this Department shall become a permanent and ever increasing charge upon the Treasury , or shall be permitted to resume the self sustaining policy which had so long controlled its administration . The course of legislation recommended by the Postmaster General for the relief of the Department from its present embarrassments and for restoring it to its original independence is deserving of your early and earnest consideration . In conclusion I would again commend to the just liberality of Congress the local interests of the District of Columbia . Surely the city bearing the name of Washington , and destined , I trust , for ages to be the capital of our united , free , and prosperous Confederacy , has strong claims on our favorable regard .<speech_sep>To the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States I have received from Calhoun , esq . , president of the late constitutional convention of Kansas , a copy , duly certified by himself , of the constitution framed by that body , with the expression of a hope that I would submit the same to the consideration of Congress with the view of the admission of Kansas into the Union as an independent State . In compliance with this request , I herewith transmit to Congress , for their action , the constitution of Kansas , with the ordinance respecting the public lands , as well as the letter of Calhoun , dated at Lecompton on the 14th ultimo , by which they were accompanied . Having received but a single copy of the constitution and ordinance , I send this to the Senate . A great delusion seems to pervade the public mind in relation to the condition of parties in Kansas . This arises from the difficulty of inducing the American people to realize the fact that any portion of them should be in a state of rebellion against the government under which they live . When we speak of the affairs of Kansas , we are apt to refer merely to the existence of two violent political parties in that Territory , divided on the question of slavery , just as we speak of such parties in the States . This presents no adequate idea of the true state of the case . The dividing line there is not between two political parties , both acknowledging the lawful existence of the government , but between those who are loyal to this government and those who have endeavored to destroy its existence by force and by usurpation between those who sustain and those who have done all in their power to overthrow the Territorial government established by Congress . This government they would long since have subverted had it not been protected from their assaults by the troops of the United States . Such has been the condition of affairs since my inauguration . Ever since that period a large portion of the people of Kansas have been in a state of rebellion against the government , with a military leader at their head of a most turbulent and dangerous character . They have never acknowledged , but have constantly renounced and defied , the government to which they owe allegiance , and have been all the time in a state of resistance against its authority . They have all the time been endeavoring to subvert it and to establish a revolutionary government , under the so called Topeka constitution , in its stead . Even at this very moment the Topeka legislature are in session . Whoever has read the correspondence of Governor Walker with the State Department , recently communicated to the Senate , will be convinced that this picture is not overdrawn . He always protested against the withdrawal of any portion of the military force of the United States from the Territory , deeming its presence absolutely necessary for the preservation of the regular government and the execution of the laws . In his very first dispatch to the Secretary of State , dated June 2 , 1857 , he says The most alarming movement , however , proceeds from the assembling on the 9th June of the so called Topeka legislature , with a view to the enactment of an entire code of laws . Of course it will be my endeavor to prevent such a result , as it would lead to inevitable and disastrous collision , and , in fact , renew the civil war in Kansas . This was with difficulty prevented by the efforts of Governor Walker but soon thereafter , on the 14th of July , we find him requesting General Harney to furnish him a regiment of dragoons to proceed to the city of Lawrence and this for the reason that he had received authentic intelligence , verified by his own actual observation , that a dangerous rebellion had occurred , involving an open defiance of the laws and the establishment of an insurgent government in that city . In the governor 39 s dispatch of July 15 he informs the Secretary of State that This movement at Lawrence was the beginning of a plan , originating in that city , to organize insurrection throughout the Territory , and especially in all towns , cities , or counties where the Republican party have a majority . Lawrence is the hotbed of all the abolition movements in this Territory . It is the town established by the abolition societies of the East , and whilst there are respectable people there , it is filled by a considerable number of mercenaries who are paid by abolition societies to perpetuate and diffuse agitation throughout Kansas and prevent a peaceful settlement of this question . Having failed in inducing their own so called Topeka State legislature to organize this insurrection , Lawrence has commenced it herself , and if not arrested the rebellion will extend throughout the Territory . And again In order to send this communication immediately by mail , I must close by assuring you that the spirit of rebellion pervades the great mass of the Republican party of this Territory , instigated , as I entertain no doubt they are , by Eastern societies , having in view results most disastrous to the government and to the Union and that the continued presence of General Harney here is indispensable , as originally stipulated by me , with a large body of dragoons and several batteries , On the 20th July , 1857 , General Lane , under the authority of the Topeka convention , undertook , as Governor Walker informs us to organize the whole so called Free State party into volunteers and to take the names of all who refuse enrollment . The professed object is to protect the polls , at the election in August , of the new insurgent Topeka State legislature . The object of taking the names of all who refuse enrollment is to terrify the Free State conservatives into submission . This is proved by recent atrocities committed on such men by Topekaites . The speedy location of large bodies of regular troops here , with two batteries , is necessary . The Lawrence insurgents await the development of this new revolutionary military organization . In the governor 39 s dispatch of July 27 he says that General Lane and his staff everywhere deny the authority of the Territorial laws and counsel a total disregard of these enactments . Without making further quotations of a similar character from other dispatches of Governor Walker , it appears by a reference to Stanton 39 s communication to General Cass of the 9th of December last that the important step of calling the legislature together was taken after I he had become satisfied that the election ordered by the convention on the 21st instant could not be conducted without collision and bloodshed . So intense was the disloyal feeling among the enemies of the government established by Congress that an election which afforded them an opportunity , if in the majority , of making Kansas a free State , according to their own professed desire , could not be conducted without collision and bloodshed . The truth is that up till the present moment the enemies of the existing government still adhere to their Topeka revolutionary constitution and government . The very first paragraph of the message of Governor Robinson , dated on the 7th of December , to the Topeka legislature now assembled at Lawrence contains an open defiance of the Constitution and laws of the United States . The governor says The convention which framed the constitution at Topeka originated with the people of Kansas Territory . They have adopted and ratified the same twice by a direct vote , and also indirectly through two elections of State officers and members of the State legislature . Yet it has pleased the Administration to regard the whole proceeding revolutionary . This Topeka government , adhered to with such treasonable pertinacity , is a government in direct opposition to the existing government prescribed and recognized by Congress . It is a usurpation of the same character as it would be for a portion of the people of any State of the Union to undertake to establish a separate government within its limits for the purpose of redressing any grievance , real or imaginary , of which they might complain against the legitimate State government . Such a principle , if carried into execution , would destroy all lawful authority and produce universal anarchy . From this statement of facts the reason becomes palpable why the enemies of the government authorized by Congress have refused to vote for delegates to the Kansas constitutional convention , and also afterwards on the question of slavery , submitted by it to the people . It is because they have ever refused to sanction or recognize any other constitution than that framed at Topeka . Had the whole Lecompton constitution been submitted to the people the adherents of this organization would doubtless have voted against it , because if successful they would thus have removed an obstacle out of the way of their own revolutionary constitution . They would have done this , not upon a consideration of the merits of the whole or any part of the Lecompton constitution , but simply because they have ever resisted the authority of the government authorized by Congress , from which it emanated . Such being the unfortunate condition of affairs in the Territory , what was the right as well as the duty of the law abiding people Were they silently and patiently to submit to the Topeka usurpation , or adopt the necessary measures to establish a constitution under the authority of the organic law of Congress That this law recognized the right of the people of the Territory , without any enabling act from Congress , to form a State constitution is too clear for argument . For Congress to leave the people of the Territory perfectly free , in framing their constitution , to form and regulate their domestic institutions in their own way , subject only to the Constitution of the United States , and then to say that they shall not be permitted to proceed and frame a constitution in their own way without an express authority from Congress , appears to be almost a contradiction in terms . It would be much more plausible to contend that Congress had no power to pass such an enabling act than to argue that the people of a Territory might be kept out of the Union for an indefinite period , and until it might please Congress to permit them to exercise the right of self government . This would be to adopt not their own way , but the way which Congress might prescribe . It is impossible that any people could have proceeded with more regularity in the formation of a constitution than the people of Kansas have done . It was necessary , first , to ascertain whether it was the desire of the people to be relieved from their Territorial dependence and establish a State government . For this purpose the Territorial legislature in 1855 passed a law for taking the sense of the people of this Territory upon the expediency of calling a convention to form a State constitution , at the general election to be held in October , 1856 . The sense of the people was accordingly taken and they decided in favor of a convention . It is true that at this election the enemies of the Territorial government did not vote , because they were then engaged at Topeka , without the slightest pretext of lawful authority , in framing a constitution of their own for the purpose of subverting the Territorial government . In pursuance of this decision of the people in favor of a convention , the Territorial legislature , on the 27th day of February , 1857 , passed an act for the election of delegates on the third Monday of June , 1857 , to frame a State constitution . This law is as fair in its provisions as any that ever passed a legislative body for a similar purpose . The right of suffrage at this election is clearly and justly defined . Every bona fide inhabitant of the Territory of Kansas , on the third Monday of June , the day of the election , who was a citizen of the United States above the age of 21 , and had resided therein for three months previous to that date , was entitled to vote . In order to avoid all interference from neighboring States or Territories with the freedom and fairness of the election , provision was made for the registry of the qualified voters , and in pursuance thereof 9 , 251 voters were registered . Governor Walker did his whole duty in urging all the qualified citizens of Kansas to vote at this election . In his inaugural address , on the 27th May last , he informed them that Under our practice the preliminary act of framing a State constitution is uniformly performed through the instrumentality of a convention of delegates chosen by the people themselves . That convention is now about to be elected by you under the call of the Territorial legislature , created and still recognized by the authority of Congress and clothed by it , in the comprehensive language of the organic law , with full power to make such an enactment . The Territorial legislature , then , in assembling this convention , were fully sustained by the act of Congress , and the authority of the convention is distinctly recognized in my instructions from the President of the United States . The governor also clearly and distinctly warns them what would be the consequences if they should not participate in the election . The people of Kansas , then he says , are invited by the highest authority known to the Constitution to participate freely and fairly in the election of delegates to frame a constitution and State government . The law has performed its entire appropriate function when it extends to the people the fight of suffrage , but it can not compel the performance of that duty . Throughout our whole Union , however , and wherever free government prevails those who abstain from the exercise of the right of suffrage authorize those who do vote to act for them in that contingency and the absentees are as much bound under the law and Constitution , where there is no fraud or violence , by the act of the majority of those who do vote as if all had participated in the election . Otherwise , as voting must be voluntary , self government would be impracticable and monarchy or despotism would remain as the only alternative . It may also be observed that at this period any hope , if such had existed , that the Topeka constitution would ever be recognized by Congress must have been abandoned . Congress had adjourned on the 3d March previous , having recognized the legal existence of the Territorial legislature in a variety of forms , which I need not enumerate . Indeed , the Delegate elected to the House of Representatives under a Territorial law had been admitted to his seat and had just completed his term of service on the day previous to my inauguration . This was the propitious moment for settling all difficulties in Kansas . This was the time for abandoning the revolutionary Topeka organization and for the enemies of the existing government to conform to the laws and to unite with its friends in framing a State constitution but this they refused to do , and the consequences of their refusal to submit to lawful authority and vote at the election of delegates may yet prove to be of a most deplorable character . Would that the respect for the laws of the land which so eminently distinguished the men of the past generation could be revived . It is a disregard and violation of law which have for years kept the Territory of Kansas in a state of almost open rebellion against its government . It is the same spirit which has produced actual rebellion in Utah . Our only safety consists in obedience and conformity to law . Should a general spirit against its enforcement prevail , this will prove fatal to us as a nation . We acknowledge no master but the law , and should we cut loose from its restraints and everyone do what seemeth good in his own eyes our case will indeed be hopeless . The enemies of the Territorial government determined still to resist the authority of Congress . They refused to vote for delegates to the convention , not because , from circumstances which I need not detail , there was an omission to register the comparatively few voters who were inhabitants of certain counties of Kansas in the early spring of 1857 , but because they had predetermined at all hazards to adhere to their revolutionary organization and defeat the establishment of any other constitution than that which they had framed at Topeka . The election was therefore suffered to pass by default . But of this result the qualified electors who refused to vote can never justly complain . From this review it is manifest that the Lecompton convention , according to every principle of constitutional law , was legally constituted and was invested with power to frame a constitution . The sacred principle of popular sovereignty has been invoked in favor of the enemies of law and order in Kansas . But in what manner is popular sovereignty to be exercised in this country if not through the instrumentality of established law In certain small republics of ancient times the people did assemble in primary meetings , passed laws , and directed public affairs . In our country this is manifestly impossible . Popular sovereignty can be exercised here only through the ballot box and if the people will refuse to exercise it in this manner , as they have done in Kansas at the election of delegates , it is not for them to complain that their rights have been violated . The Kansas convention , thus lawfully constituted , proceeded to frame a constitution , and , having completed their work , finally adjourned on the 7th day of November last . They did not think proper to submit the whole of this constitution to a popular vote , but they did submit the question whether Kansas should be a free or a slave State to the people . This was the question which had convulsed the Union and shaken it to its very center . This was the question which had lighted up the flames of civil war in Kansas and had produced dangerous sectional parties throughout the Confederacy . It was of a character so paramount in respect to the condition of Kansas as to rivet the anxious attention of the people of the whole country upon it , and it alone . No person thought of any other question . For my own part , when I instructed Governor Walker in general terms in favor of submitting the constitution to the people , I had no object in view except the all absorbing question of slavery . In what manner the people of Kansas might regulate their other concerns was not a subject which attracted any attention . In fact , the general provisions of our recent State constitutions , after an experience of eight years , are so similar and so excellent that it would be difficult to go far wrong at the present day in framing a new constitution . I then believed and still believe that under the organic act the Kansas convention were bound to submit this all important question of slavery to the people . It was never , however , my opinion that , independently of this act , they would have been bound to submit any portion of the constitution to a popular vote in order to give it validity . Had I entertained such an opinion , this would have been in opposition to many precedents in our history , commencing in the very best age of the Republic . It would have been in opposition to the principle which pervades our institutions , and which is every day carried out into practice , that the people have the right to delegate to representatives chosen by themselves their sovereign power to frame constitutions , enact laws , and perform many other important acts without requiring that these should be subjected to their subsequent approbation . It would be a most inconvenient limitation of their own power , imposed by the people upon themselves , to exclude them from exercising their sovereignty in any lawful manner they think proper . It is true that the people of Kansas might , if they had pleased , have required the convention to submit the constitution to a popular vote but this they have not done . The only remedy , therefore , in this case is that which exists in all other similar cases . If the delegates who framed the Kansas constitution have in any manner violated the will of their constituents , the people always possess the power to change their constitution or their laws according to their own pleasure . The question of slavery was submitted to an election of the people of Kansas on the 21st December last , in obedience to the mandate of the constitution . Here again a fair opportunity was presented to the adherents of the Topeka constitution , if they were the majority , to decide this exciting question in their own way and thus restore peace to the distracted Territory but they again refused to exercise their right of popular sovereignty , and again suffered the election to pass by default . I heartily rejoice that a wiser and better spirit prevailed among a large majority of these people on the first Monday of January , and that they did on that day vote under the Lecompton constitution for a governor and other State officers , a Member of Congress , and for members of the legislature . This election was warmly contested by the parties , and a larger vote was polled than at any previous election in the Territory . We may now reasonably hope that the revolutionary Topeka organization will be speedily and finally abandoned , and this will go far toward the final settlement of the unhappy differences in Kansas . If frauds have been committed at this election , either by one or both parties , the legislature and the people of Kansas , under their constitution , will know how to redress themselves and punish these detestable but too common crimes without any outside interference . The people of Kansas have , then , in their own way and in strict accordance with the organic act , framed a constitution and State government , have submitted the all important question of slavery to the people , and have elected a governor , a Member to represent them in Congress , members of the State legislature , and other State officers . They now ask admission into the Union under this constitution , which is republican in its form . It is for Congress to decide whether they will admit or reject the State which has thus been created . For my own part , I am decidedly in favor of its admission , and thus terminating the Kansas question . This will carry out the great principle of nonintervention recognized and sanctioned by the organic act , which declares in express language in favor of nonintervention by Congress with slavery in the States or Territories , leaving the people thereof perfectly free to form and regulate their domestic institutions in their own way , subject only to the Constitution of the United States . In this manner , by localizing the question of slavery and confining it to the people whom it immediately concerned , every patriot anxiously expected that this question would be banished from the halls of Congress , where it has always exerted a baneful influence throughout the whole country . It is proper that I should briefly refer to the election held under an act of the Territorial legislature on the first Monday of January last on the Lecompton constitution . This election was held after the Territory had been prepared for admission into the Union as a sovereign State , and when no authority existed in the Territorial legislature which could possibly destroy its existence or change its character . The election , which was peaceably conducted under my instructions , involved a strange inconsistency . A large majority of the persons who voted against the Lecompton constitution were at the very same time and place recognizing its valid existence in the most solemn and authentic manner by voting under its provisions . I have yet received no official information of the result of this election . As a question of expediency , after the right has been maintained , it may be wise to reflect upon the benefits to Kansas and to the whole country which would result from its immediate admission into the Union , as well as the disasters which may follow its rejection . Domestic peace will be the happy consequence of its admission , and that fine Territory , which has hitherto been torn by dissensions , will rapidly increase in population and wealth and speedily realize the blessings and the comforts which follow in the train of agricultural and mechanical industry . The people will then be sovereign and can regulate their own affairs in their own way . If a majority of them desire to abolish domestic slavery within the State , there is no other possible mode by which this can be effected so speedily as by prompt admission . The will of the majority is supreme and irresistible when expressed in an orderly and lawful manner . They can make and unmake constitutions at pleasure . It would be absurd to say that they can impose fetters upon their own power which they can not afterwards remove . If they could do this , they might tie their own hands for a hundred as well as for ten years . These are fundamental principles of American freedom , and are recognized , I believe , in some form or other by every State constitution and if Congress , in the act of admission , should think proper to recognize them I can perceive no objection to such a course . This has been done emphatically in the constitution of Kansas . It declares in the bill of rights that all political power is inherent in the people and all free governments are rounded on their authority and instituted for their benefit , and therefore they have at all times an inalienable and indefeasible right to alter , reform , or abolish their form of government in such manner as they may think proper . The great State of New York is at this moment governed under a constitution framed and established in direct opposition to the mode prescribed by the previous constitution . If , therefore , the provision changing the Kansas constitution after the year 1864 could by possibility be construed into a prohibition to make such a change previous to that period , this prohibition would be wholly unavailing . The legislature already elected may at its very first session submit the question to a vote of the people whether they will or will not have a convention to amend their constitution and adopt all necessary means for giving effect to the popular will . It has been solemnly adjudged by the highest judicial tribunal known to our laws that slavery exists in Kansas by virtue of the Constitution of the United States . Kansas is therefore at this moment as much a slave State as Georgia or South Carolina . Without this the equality of the sovereign States composing the Union would be violated and the use and enjoyment of a territory acquired by the common treasure of all the States would be closed against the people and the property of nearly half the members of the Confederacy . Slavery can therefore never be prohibited in Kansas except by means of a constitutional provision , and in no other manner can this be obtained so promptly , if a majority of the people desire it , as by admitting it into the Union under its present constitution . On the other hand , should Congress reject the constitution under the idea of affording the disaffected in Kansas a third opportunity of prohibiting slavery in the State , which they might have done twice before if in the majority , no man can foretell the consequences . If Congress , for the sake of those men who refused to vote for delegates to the convention when they might have excluded slavery from the constitution , and who afterwards refused to vote on the 21st December last , when they might , as they claim , have stricken slavery from the constitution , should now reject the State because slavery remains in the constitution , it is manifest that the agitation upon this dangerous subject will be renewed in a more alarming form than it has ever yet assumed . Every patriot in the country had indulged the hope that the Kansas and Nebraska act would put a final end to the slavery agitation , at least in Congress , which had for more than twenty years convulsed the country and endangered the Union . This act involved great and fundamental principles , and if fairly carried into effect will settle the question . Should the agitation be again revived , should the people of the sister States be again estranged from each other with more than their former bitterness , this will arise from a cause , so far as the interests of Kansas are concerned , more trifling and insignificant than has ever stirred the elements of a great people into commotion . To the people of Kansas the only practical difference between admission or rejection depends simply upon the fact whether they can themselves more speedily change the present constitution if it does not accord with the will of the majority , or frame a second constitution to be submitted to Congress hereafter . Even if this were a question of mere expediency , and not of right , the small difference of time one way or the other is of not the least importance when contrasted with the evils which must necessarily result to the whole country from a revival of the slavery agitation . In considering this question it should never be forgotten that in proportion to its insignificance , let the decision be what it may so far as it may affect the few thousand inhabitants of Kansas who have from the beginning resisted the constitution and the laws , for this very reason the rejection of the constitution will be so much the more keenly felt by the people of fourteen of the States of this Union , where slavery is recognized under the Constitution of the United States . Again , the speedy admission of Kansas into the Union would restore peace and quiet to the whole country . Already the affairs of this Territory have engrossed an undue proportion of public attention . They have sadly affected the friendly relations of the people of the States with each other and alarmed the fears of patriots for the safety of the Union . Kansas once admitted into the Union , the excitement becomes localized and will soon die away for want of outside aliment . Then every difficulty will be settled at the ballot box . Besides and this is no trifling consideration I shall then be enabled to withdraw the troops of the United States from Kansas and employ them on branches of service where they are much needed . They have been kept there , on the earnest importunity of Governor Walker , to maintain the existence of the Territorial government and secure the execution of the laws . He considered that at least 2 , 000 regular troops , under the command of General Harney , were necessary for this purpose . Acting upon his reliable information , I have been obliged in some degree to interfere with the expedition to Utah in order to keep down rebellion in Kansas . This has involved a very heavy expense to the Government . Kansas once admitted , it is believed there will no longer be any occasion there for troops of the United States . I have thus performed my duty on this important question , under a deep sense of responsibility to God and my country . My public life will terminate within a brief period , and I have no other object of earthly ambition than to leave my country in a peaceful and prosperous condition and to live in the affections and respect of my countrymen . The dark and ominous clouds which now appear to be impending over the Union I conscientiously believe may be dissipated with honor to every portion of it by the admission of Kansas during the present session of Congress , whereas if she should be rejected I greatly fear these clouds will become darker and more ominous than any which have ever yet threatened the Constitution and the Union . April 6 , 1858 Proclamation Regarding the Rebellion in Utah Whereas the Territory of Utah was settled by certain emigrants from the States and from foreign countries who have for several years past manifested a spirit of insubordination to the Constitution and laws of the United States . The great mass of those settlers , acting under the influence of leaders to whom they seem to have surrendered their judgment , refuse to be controlled by any other authority . They have been often advised to obedience , and these friendly counsels have been answered with defiance . The officers of the Federal Government have been driven from the Territory for no offense but an effort to do their sworn duty others have been prevented from going there by threats of assassination judges have been violently interrupted in the performance of their functions , and the records of the courts have been seized and destroyed or concealed . Many other acts of unlawful violence have been perpetrated , and the right to repeat them has been openly claimed by the leading inhabitants , with at least the silent acquiescence of nearly all the others . Their hostility to the lawful government of the country has at length become so violent that no officer bearing a commission from the Chief Magistrate of the Union can enter the Territory or remain there with safety , and all those officers recently appointed have been unable to go to Salt Lake or anywhere else in Utah beyond the immediate power of the Army . Indeed , such is believed to be the condition to which a strange system of terrorism has brought the inhabitants of that region that no one among them could express an opinion favorable to this Government , or even propose to obey its laws , without exposing his life and property to peril . After carefully considering this state of affairs and maturely weighing the obligation I was under to see the laws faithfully executed , it seemed to me right and proper that I should make such use of the military force at my disposal as might be necessary to protect the Federal officers in going into the Territory of Utah and in performing their duties after arriving there . I accordingly ordered a detachment of the Army to march for the city of Salt Lake , or within reach of that place , and to act in case of need as a posse for the enforcement of the laws . But in the meantime the hatred of that misguided people for the just and legal authority of the Government had become so intense that they resolved to measure their military strength with that of the Union . They have organized an armed force far from contemptible in point of numbers and trained it , if not with skill , at least with great assiduity and perseverance . While the troops of the United States were on their march a train of baggage wagons , which happened to be unprotected , was attacked and destroyed by a portion of the Mormon forces and the provisions and stores with which the train was laden were wantonly burnt . In short , their present attitude is one of decided and unreserved enmity to the United States and to all their loyal citizens . Their determination to oppose the authority of the Government by military force has not only been expressed in words , but manifested in overt acts of the most unequivocal character . Fellow citizens of Utah , this is rebellion against the Government to which you owe allegiance it is levying war against the United States , and involves you in the guilt of treason . Persistence in it will bring you to condign punishment , to ruin , and to shame for it is mere madness to suppose that with your limited resources you can successfully resist the force of this great and powerful nation . If you have calculated upon the forbearance of the United States , if you have permitted yourselves to suppose that this Government will fail to put forth its strength and bring you to submission , you have fallen into a grave mistake . You have settled upon territory which lies , geographically , in the heart of the Union . The land you live upon was purchased by the United States and paid for out of their Treasury the proprietary right and title to it is in them , and not in you . Utah is bounded on every side by States and Territories whose people are true to the Union . It is absurd to believe that they will or can permit you to erect in their very midst a government of your own , not only independent of the authority which they all acknowledge , but hostile to them and their interests . Do not deceive yourselves nor try to mislead others by propagating the idea that this is a crusade against your religion . The Constitution and laws of this country can take no notice of your creed , whether it be true or false . That is a question between your God and yourselves , in which I disclaim all right to interfere . If you obey the laws , keep the peace , and respect the just rights of others , you will be perfectly secure , and may live on in your present faith or change it for another at your pleasure . Every intelligent man among you knows very well that this Government has never , directly or indirectly , sought to molest you in your worship , to control you in your ecclesiastical affairs , or even to influence you in your religious opinions . This rebellion is not merely a violation of your legal duty it is without just cause , without reason , without excuse . You never made a complaint that was not listened to with patience you never exhibited a real grievance that was not redressed as promptly as it could be . The laws and regulations enacted for your government by Congress have been equal and just , and their enforcement was manifestly necessary for your own welfare and happiness . You have never asked their repeal . They are similar in every material respect to the laws which have been passed for the other Territories of the Union , and which everywhere else with one partial exception have been cheerfully obeyed . No people ever lived who were freer from unnecessary legal restraints than you . Human wisdom never devised a political system which bestowed more blessings or imposed lighter burdens than the Government of the United States in its operation upon the Territories . But being anxious to save the effusion of blood and to avoid the indiscriminate punishment of a whole people for crimes of which it is not probable that all are equally guilty , I offer now a free and full pardon to all who will submit themselves to the just authority of the Federal Government . If you refuse to accept it , let the consequences fall upon your own heads . But I conjure you to pause deliberately and reflect well before you reject this tender of peace and good will . Now , therefore , James Buchanan , President of the United States , have thought proper to issue this my proclamation , enjoining upon all public officers in the Territory of Utah to be diligent and faithful , to the full extent of their power , in the execution of the laws commanding all citizens of the United States in said Territory to aid and assist the officers in the performance of their duties offering to the inhabitants of Utah who shall submit to the laws a free pardon for the seditions and treasons heretofore by them committed warning those who shall persist , after notice of this proclamation , in the present rebellion against the United States that they must expect no further lenity , but look to be rigorously dealt with according to their deserts and declaring that the military forces now in Utah and hereafter to be sent there will not be withdrawn until the inhabitants of that Territory shall manifest a proper sense of the duty which they owe to this Government . In testimony whereof I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed to these presents . Done at the city of Washington the 6th day of April , 1858 , and of the Independence of the United States the eighty second . JAMES BUCHANAN . By the President LEWIS CASSecretary of State .<speech_sep>To the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States I deem it my duty to submit to Congress a series of resolutions adopted by the legislature of Virginia on the 19th instant , having in view a peaceful settlement of the exciting questions which now threaten the Union . They were delivered to me on Thursday , the 24th instant , by ex President Tyler , who has left his dignified and honored retirement in the hope that he may render service to his country in this its hour of peril . These resolutions , it will be perceived , extend an invitation to all such States , whether slaveholding or nonslaveholding , as are willing to unite with Virginia in an earnest effort to adjust the present unhappy controversies in the spirit in which the Constitution was originally formed , and consistently with its principles , so as to afford to the people of the slaveholding States adequate guaranties for the securities of their rights , to appoint commissioners to meet , on the 4th day of February next , in the city of Washington , similar commissioners appointed by Virginia , to consider and , if practicable , agree upon some suitable adjustment . I confess I hail this movement on the part of Virginia with great satisfaction . From the past history of this ancient and renowned Commonwealth we have the fullest assurance that what she has undertaken she will accomplish if it can be done by able , enlightened , and persevering efforts . It is highly gratifying to know that other patriotic States have appointed and are appointing commissioners to meet those of Virginia in council . When assembled , they will constitute a body entitled in an eminent degree to the confidence of the country . The general assembly of Virginia have also resolved That ex President John Tyler is hereby appointed , by the concurrent vote of each branch of the general assembly , a commissioner to the President of the United States , and Judge John Robertson is hereby appointed , by a like vote , a commissioner to the State of South Carolina and the other States that have seceded or shall secede , with instructions respectfully to request the President of the United States and the authorities of such States to agree to abstain , pending the proceedings contemplated by the action of this general assembly , from any and all acts calculated to produce a collision of arms between the States and the Government of the United States . However strong may be my desire to enter into such an agreement , I am convinced that I do not possess the power . Congress , and Congress alone , under the war making power , can exercise the discretion of agreeing to abstain from any and all acts calculated to produce a collision of arms between this and any other government . It would therefore be a usurpation for the Executive to attempt to restrain their hands by an agreement in regard to matters over which he has no constitutional control . If he were thus to act , they might pass laws which he should be bound to obey , though in conflict with his agreement . Under existing circumstances , my present actual power is confined within narrow limits . It is my duty at all times to defend and protect the public property within the seceding States so far as this may be practicable , and especially to employ all constitutional means to protect the property of the United States and to preserve the public peace at this the seat of the Federal Government . If the seceding States abstain from any and all acts calculated to produce a collision of arms , then the danger so much to be deprecated will no longer exist . Defense , and not aggression , has been the policy of the Administration from the beginning . But whilst I can enter into no engagement such as that proposed , I cordially commend to Congress , with much confidence that it will meet their approbation , to abstain from passing any law calculated to produce a collision of arms pending the proceedings contemplated by the action of the general assembly of Virginia . I am one of those who will never despair of the Republic . I yet cherish the belief that the American people will perpetuate the Union of the States on some terms just and honorable for all sections of the country . I trust that the mediation of Virginia may be the destined means , under Providence , of accomplishing this inestimable benefit . Glorious as are the memories of her past history , such an achievement , both in relation to her own fame and the welfare of the whole country would surpass them all .<speech_sep>At the opening of your present session I called your attention to the dangers which threatened the existence of the Union . I expressed my opinion freely concerning the original causes of those dangers , and recommended such measures as I believed would have the effect of tranquilizing the country and saving it from the peril in which it had been needlessly and most unfortunately involved . Those opinions and recommendations I do not propose now to repeat . My own convictions upon the whole subject remain unchanged . The fact that a great calamity was impending over the nation was even at that time acknowledged by every intelligent citizen . It had already made itself felt throughout the length and breadth of the land . The necessary consequences of the alarm thus produced were most deplorable . The imports fell off with a rapidity never known before , except in time of war , in the history of our foreign commerce the Treasury was unexpectedly left without the means which it had reasonably counted upon to meet the public engagements trade was paralyzed manufactures were stopped the best public securities suddenly sunk in the market every species of property depreciated more or less , and thousands of poor men who depended upon their daily labor for their daily bread were turned out of employment . I deeply regret that I am not able to give you any information upon the state of the Union which is more satisfactory than what I was then obliged to communicate . On the contrary , matters are still worse at present than they then were . When Congress met , a stronge hope pervaded the whole public mind that some amicable adjustment of the subject would speedily be made by the representatives of the States and of the people which might restore peace between the conflicting sections of the country . That hope has been diminished by every hour of delay , and as the prospect of a bloodless settlement fades away the public distress becomes more and more aggravated . As evidence of this it is only necessary to say that the Treasury notes authorized by the act of 17th of December last were advertised according to the law and that no responsible bidder offered to take any considerable sum at par at a lower rate of interest than 12 per cent . From these facts it appears that in a government organized like ours domestic strife , or even a well grounded fear of civil hostilities , is more destructive to our public and private interests than the most formidable foreign war . In my annual message I expressed the conviction , which I have long deliberately held , and which recent reflection has only tended to deepen and confirm , that no State has a right by its own act to secede from the Union or throw off its federal obligations at pleasure . I also declared my opinion to be that even if that right existed and should be exercised by any State of the Confederacy the executive department of this Government had no authority under the Constitution to recognize its validity by acknowledging the independence of such State . This left me no alternative , as the chief executive officer under the Constitution of the United States , but to collect the public revenues and to protect the public property so far as this might be practicable under existing laws . This is still my purpose . My province is to execute and not to make the laws . It belongs to Congress exclusively to repeal , to modify , or to enlarge their provisions to meet exigencies as they may occur . I possess no dispensing power . I certainly had no right to make aggressive war upon any State , and I am perfectly satisfied that the Constitution has wisely withheld that power even from Congress . But the right and the duty to use military force defensively against those who resist the Federal officers in the execution of their legal functions and against those who assail the property of the Federal Government is clear and undeniable . But the dangerous and hostile attitude of the States toward each other has already far transcended and cast in the shade the ordinary executive duties already provided for by law , and has assumed such vast and alarming proportions as to place the subject entirely above and beyond Executive control . The fact can not be disguised that we are in the midst of a great revolution . In all its various bearings , therefore , I commend the question to Congress as the only human tribunal under Providence possessing the power to meet the existing emergency . To them exclusively belongs the power to declare war or to authorize the employment of military force in all cases contemplated by the Constitution , and they alone possess the power to remove grievances which might lead to war and to secure peace and union to this distracted country . On them , and on them alone , rests the responsibility . The Union is a sacred trust left by our Revolutionary fathers to their descendants , and never did any other people inherit so rich a legacy . It has rendered us prosperous in peace and triumphant in war . The national flag has floated in glory over every sea . Under its shadow American citizens have found protection and respect in all lands beneath the sun . If we descend to considerations of purely material interest , when in the history of all time has a confederacy been bound together by such strong ties of mutual interest Each portion of it is dependent on all and all upon each portion for prosperity and domestic security . Free trade throughout the whole supplies the wants of one portion from the productions of another and scatters wealth everywhere . The great planting and farming States require the aid of the commercial and navigating States to send their productions to domestic and foreign markets and to furnish the naval power to render their transportation secure against all hostile attacks . Should the Union perish in the midst of the present excitement , we have already had a sad foretaste of the universal suffering which would result from its destruction . The calamity would be severe in every portion of the Union and would be quite as great , to say the least , in the Southern as in the Northern States . The greatest aggravation of the evil , and that which would place us in the most unfavorable light both before the world and posterity , is , as I am firmly convinced , that the secession movement has been chiefly based upon a misapprehension at the South of the sentiments of the majority in several of the Northern States . Let the question be transferred from political assemblies to the ballot box , and the people themselves would speedily redress the serious grievances which the South have suffered . But , in Heaven 39 s name , let the trial be made before we plunge into armed conflict upon the mere assumption that there is no other alternative . Time is a great conservative power . Let us pause at this momentous point and afford the people , both North and South , an opportunity for reflection . Would that South Carolina had been convinced of this truth before her precipitate action I therefore appeal through you to the people of the country to declare in their might that the Union must and shall be preserved by all constitutional means . I most earnestly recommend that you devote yourselves exclusively to the question how this can be accomplished in peace . All other questions , when compared to this , sink into insignificance . The present is no time for palliations . Action , prompt action , is required . A delay in Congress to prescribe or to recommend a distinct and practical proposition for conciliation may drive us to a point from which it will be almost impossible to recede . A common ground on which conciliation and harmony can be produced is surely not unattainable . The proposition to compromise by letting the North have exclusive control of the territory above a certain line and to give Southern institutions protection below that line ought to receive universal approbation . In itself , indeed , it may not be entirely satisfactory , but when the alternative is between a reasonable concession on both sides and a destruction of the Union it is an imputation upon the patriotism of Congress to assert that its members will hesitate for a moment . Even now the danger is upon us . In several of the States which have not yet seceded the forts , arsenals , and magazines of the United States have been seized . This is by far the most serious step which has been taken since the commencement of the troubles . This public property has long been left without garrisons and troops for its protection , because no person doubted its security under the flag of the country in any State of the Union . Besides , our small Army has scarcely been sufficient to guard our remote frontiers against Indian incursions . The seizure of this property , from all appearances , has been purely aggressive , and not in resistance to any attempt to coerce a State or States to remain in the Union . At the beginning of these unhappy troubles I determined that no act of mine should increase the excitement in either section of the country . If the political conflict were to end in a civil war , it was my determined purpose not to commence it nor even to furnish an excuse for it by any act of this Government . My opinion remains unchanged that justice as well as sound policy requires us still to seek a peaceful solution of the questions at issue between the North and the South . Entertaining this conviction , I refrained even from sending reenforcements to Major Anderson , who commanded the forts in Charleston Harbor , until an absolute necessity for doing so should make itself apparent , lest it might unjustly be regarded as a menace of military coercion , and thus furnish , if not a provocation , at least a pretext for an outbreak on the part of South Carolina . No necessity for these reenforcements seemed to exist . I was assured by distinguished and upright gentlemen of South Carolina that no attack upon Major Anderson was intended , but that , on the contrary , it was the desire of the State authorities as much as it was my own to avoid the fatal consequences which must eventually follow a military collision . And here I deem it proper to submit for your information copies of a communication , dated December 28 , 1860 , addressed to me by Barnwell , Adams , and James Orr , commissioners from South Carolina , with the accompanying documents , and copies of my answer thereto , dated December 31 . In further explanation of Major Anderson 39 s removal from Fort Moultrie to Fort Sumter , it is proper to state that after my answer to the South Carolina commissioners the War Department received a letter from that gallant officer , dated on the 27th of December , 1860 , the day after this movement , from which the following is an extract I will add as my opinion that many things convinced me that the authorities of the State designed to proceed to a hostile act . Evidently referring to the orders , dated December 11 , of the late Secretary of War . Under this impression I could not hesitate that it was my solemn duty to move my command from a fort which we could not probably have held longer than forty eight or sixty hours to this one , where my power of resistance is increased to a very great degree . It will be recollected that the concluding part of these orders was in the following terms The smallness of your force will not permit you , perhaps , to occupy more than one of the three forts , but an attack on or attempt to take possession of either one of them will be regarded as an act of hostility , and you may then put your command into either of them which you may deem most proper to increase its power of resistance . You are also authorized to take similar defensive steps whenever you have tangible evidence of a design to proceed to a hostile act .<speech_sep>In answer to their resolution of the 11th instant ultimo , that the President of the United States furnish to the House , if not incompatible with the public service , the reasons that have induced him to assemble so large a number of troops in this city , and why they are kept here and whether he has any information of a conspiracy upon the part of any portion of the citizens of this country to seize upon the capital and prevent the inauguration of the President elect , the President submits that the number of troops assembled in this city is not large , as the resolution presupposes , its total amount being 653 men exclusive of the marines , who are , of course , at the navy yard as their appropriate station . These troops were ordered here to act as a posse comitatus , in strict subordination to the civil authority , for the purpose of presenting peace and order in the city of Washington should this be necessary before or at the period of the inauguration of the President elect . Since the date of the resolution Howard , from the select committee , has made a report to the House on this subject . It was thoroughly investigated by the committee , and although they have expressed the opinion that the evidence before them does not prove the existence of a secret organization here or elsewhere hostile to the Government that has for its object , upon its own responsibility , an attack upon the capital or any of the public property here , or an interruption of any of the functions of the Government , yet the House laid upon the table by a very large majority a resolution expressing the opinion that the regular troops now in this city ought to be forthwith removed therefrom . This of itself was a sufficient reason for not withdrawing the troops . But what was the duty of the President at the time the troops were ordered to this city Ought he to have waited before this precautionary measure was adopted until he could obtain proof that a secret organization existed to seize the capital In the language of the select committee , this was in a time of high excitement consequent upon revolutionary events transpiring all around us , the very air filled with rumors and individuals indulging in the most extravagant expressions of fears and threats . Under these and other circumstances , which I need not detail , but which appear in the testimony before the select committee , I was convinced that I ought to act . The safety of the immense amount of public property in this city and that of the archives of the Government , in which all the States , and especially the new States in which the public lands are situated , have a deep interest the peace and order of the city itself and the security of the inauguration of the President elect , were objects of such vast importance to the whole country that I could not hesitate to adopt precautionary defensive measures . At the present moment , when all is quiet , it is difficult to realize the state of alarm which prevailed when the troops were first ordered to this city . This almost instantly subsided after the arrival of the first company , and a feeling of comparative peace and security has since existed both in Washington and throughout the country . Had I refused to adopt this precautionary measure , and evil consequences , which many good men at the time apprehended , had followed , I should never have forgiven myself .<speech_sep>