President , Speaker , members of the 96th Congress , fellow citizens This last few months has not been an easy time for any of us . As we meet tonight , it has never been more clear that the state of our Union depends on the state of the world . And tonight , as throughout our own generation , freedom and peace in the world depend on the state of our Union . The 1980s have been born in turmoil , strife , and change . This is a time of challenge to our interests and our values and it is a time that tests our wisdom and our skills . At this time in Iran , 50 Americans are still held captive , innocent victims of terrorism and anarchy . Also at this moment , massive Soviet troops are attempting to subjugate the fiercely independent and deeply religious people of Afghanistan . These two acts one of international terrorism and one of military aggression present a serious challenge to the United States of America and indeed to all the nations of the world . Together , we will meet these threats to peace . I am determined that the United States will remain the strongest of all nations , but our power will never be used to initiate a threat to the security of any nation or to the rights of any human being . We seek to be and to remain secure a nation at peace in a stable world . But to be secure we must face the world as it is . Three basic developments have helped to shape our challenges the steady growth and increased projection of Soviet military power beyond its own borders the overwhelming dependence of the Western democracies on oil supplies from the Middle East and the press of social and religious and economic and political change in the many nations of the developing world , exemplified by the revolution in Iran . Each of these factors is important in its own right . Each interacts with the others . All must be faced together , squarely and courageously . We will face these challenges , and we will meet them with the best that is in us . And we will not fail . In response to the abhorrent act in Iran , our nation has never been aroused and unified so greatly in peacetime . Our position is clear . The United States will not yield to blackmail . We continue to pursue these specific goals first , to protect the present and long range interests of the United States secondly , to preserve the lives of the American hostages and to secure , as quickly as possible , their safe release , if possible , to avoid bloodshed which might further endanger the lives of our fellow citizens to enlist the help of other nations in condemning this act of violence , which is shocking and violates the moral and the legal standards of a civilized world and also to convince and to persuade the Iranian leaders that the real danger to their nation lies in the north , in the Soviet Union and from the Soviet troops now in Afghanistan , and that the unwarranted Iranian quarrel with the United States hampers their response to this far greater danger to them . If the American hostages are harmed , a severe price will be paid . We will never rest until every one of the American hostages are released . But now we face a broader and more fundamental challenge in this region because of the recent military action of the Soviet Union . Now , as during the last three and a half decades , the relationship between our country , the United States of America , and the Soviet Union is the most critical factor in determining whether the world will live at peace or be engulfed in global conflict . Since the end of the Second World War , America has led other nations in meeting the challenge of mounting Soviet power . This has not been a simple or a static relationship . Between us there has been cooperation , there has been competition , and at times there has been confrontation . In the 1940s we took the lead in creating the Atlantic Alliance in response to the Soviet Union s suppression and then consolidation of its East European empire and the resulting threat of the Warsaw Pact to Western Europe . In the 1950s we helped to contain further Soviet challenges in Korea and in the Middle East , and we rearmed to assure the continuation of that containment . In the 1960s we met the Soviet challenges in Berlin , and we faced the Cuban missile crisis . And we sought to engage the Soviet Union in the important task of moving beyond the cold war and away from confrontation . And in the 1970s three American Presidents negotiated with the Soviet leaders in attempts to halt the growth of the nuclear arms race . We sought to establish rules of behavior that would reduce the risks of conflict , and we searched for areas of cooperation that could make our relations reciprocal and productive , not only for the sake of our two nations but for the security and peace of the entire world . In all these actions , we have maintained two commitments to be ready to meet any challenge by Soviet military power , and to develop ways to resolve disputes and to keep the peace . Preventing nuclear war is the foremost responsibility of the two superpowers . That is why we have negotiated the strategic arms limitation treaties SALT I and SALT IEspecially now , in a time of great tension , observing the mutual constraints imposed by the terms of these treaties will be in the best interest of both countries and will help to preserve world peace . I will consult very closely with the Congress on this matter as we strive to control nuclear weapons . That effort to control nuclear weapons will not be abandoned . We superpowers also have the responsibility to exercise restraint in the use of our great military force . The integrity and the independence of weaker nations must not be threatened . They must know that in our presence they are secure . But now the Soviet Union has taken a radical and an aggressive new step . It is using its great military power against a relatively defenseless nation . The implications of the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan could pose the most serious threat to the peace since the Second World War . The vast majority of nations on Earth have condemned this latest Soviet attempt to extend its colonial domination of others and have demanded the immediate withdrawal of Soviet troops . The Moslem world is especially and justifiably outraged by this aggression against an Islamic people . No action of a world power has ever been so quickly and so overwhelmingly condemned . But verbal condemnation is not enough . The Soviet Union must pay a concrete price for their aggression . While this invasion continues , we and the other nations of the world cannot conduct business as usual with the Soviet Union . That is why the United States has imposed stiff economic penalties on the Soviet Union . I will not issue any permits for Soviet ships to fish in the coastal waters of the United States . I have cut Soviet access to high technology equipment and to agricultural products . I have limited other commerce with the Soviet Union , and I have asked our allies and friends to join with us in restraining their own trade with the Soviets and not to replace our own embargoed items . And I have notified the Olympic Committee that with Soviet invading forces in Afghanistan , neither the American people nor I will support sending an Olympic team to Moscow . The Soviet Union is going to have to answer some basic questions Will it help promote a more stable international environment in which its own legitimate , peaceful concerns can be pursued Or will it continue to expand its military power far beyond its genuine security needs , and use that power for colonial conquest The Soviet Union must realize that its decision to use military force in Afghanistan will be costly to every political and economic relationship it values . The region which is now threatened by Soviet troops in Afghanistan is of great strategic importance It contains more than two thirds of the world s exportable oil . The Soviet effort to dominate Afghanistan has brought Soviet military forces to within 300 miles of the Indian Ocean and close to the Straits of Hormuz , a waterway through which most of the world s oil must flow . The Soviet Union is now attempting to consolidate a strategic position , therefore , that poses a grave threat to the free movement of Middle East oil . This situation demands careful thought , steady nerves , and resolute action , not only for this year but for many years to come . It demands collective efforts to meet this new threat to security in the Persian Gulf and in Southwest Asia . It demands the participation of all those who rely on oil from the Middle East and who are concerned with global peace and stability . And it demands consultation and close cooperation with countries in the area which might be threatened . Meeting this challenge will take national will , diplomatic and political wisdom , economic sacrifice , and , of course , military capability . We must call on the best that is in us to preserve the security of this crucial region . Let our position be absolutely clear An attempt by any outside force to gain control of the Persian Gulf region will be regarded as an assault on the vital interests of the United States of America , and such an assault will be repelled by any means necessary , including military force . During the past threeyears , you have joined with me to improve our own security and the prospects for peace , not only in the vital oil producing area of the Persian Gulf region but around the world . We have increased annually our real commitment for defense , and we will sustain this increase of effort throughout the Five Year Defense Program . It is imperative that Congress approve this strong defense budget for 1981 , encompassing a 5 percent real growth in authorizations , without any reduction . We are also improving our capability to deploy military forces rapidly to distant areas . We have helped to strengthen NATO and our other alliances , and recently we and other NATO members have decided to develop and to deploy modernized , intermediate range nuclear forces to meet an unwarranted and increased threat from the nuclear weapons of the Soviet Union . We are working with our allies to prevent conflict in the Middle East . The peace treaty between Egypt and Israel is a notable achievement which represents a strategic asset for America and which also enhances prospects for regional and world peace . We are now engaged in further negotiations to provide full autonomy for the people of the West Bank and Gaza , to resolve the Palestinian issue in all its aspects , and to preserve the peace and security of Israel . Let no one doubt our commitment to the security of Israel . In a few days we will observe an historic event when Israel makes another major withdrawal from the Sinai and when Ambassadors will be exchanged between Israel and Egypt . We have also expanded our own sphere of friendship . Our deep commitment to human rights and to meeting human needs has improved our relationship with much of the Third World . Our decision to normalize relations with the People s Republic of China will help to preserve peace and stability in Asia and in the Western Pacific . We have increased and strengthened our naval presence in the Indian Ocean , and we are now making arrangements for key naval and air facilities to be used by our forces in the region of northeast Africa and the Persian Gulf . We have reconfirmed our 1959 agreement to help Pakistan preserve its independence and its integrity . The United States will take action consistent with our own laws to assist Pakistan in resisting any outside aggression . And I am asking the Congress specifically to reaffirm this agreement . I am also working , along with the leaders of other nations , to provide additional military and economic aid for Pakistan . That request will come to you in just a few days . Finally , we are prepared to work with other countries in the region to share a cooperative security framework that respects differing values and political beliefs , yet which enhances the independence , security , and prosperity of all . All these efforts combined emphasize our dedication to defend and preserve the vital interests of the region and of the nation which we represent and those of our allies in Europe and the Pacific , and also in the parts of the world which have such great strategic importance to us , stretching especially through the Middle East and Southwest Asia . With your help , I will pursue these efforts with vigor and with determination . You and I will act as necessary to protect and to preserve our nation s security . The men and women of America s armed forces are on duty tonight in many parts of the world . I am proud of the job they are doing , and I know you share that pride . I believe that our volunteer forces are adequate for current defense needs , and I hope that it will not become necessary to impose a draft . However , we must be prepared for that possibility . For this reason , I have determined that the Selective Service System must now be revitalized . I will send legislation and budget proposals to the Congress next month so that we can begin registration and then meet future mobilization needs rapidly if they arise . We also need clear and quick passage of a new charter to define the legal authority and accountability of our intelligence agencies . We will guarantee that abuses do not recur , but we must tighten our controls on sensitive intelligence information , and we need to remove unwarranted restraints on America s ability to collect intelligence . The decade ahead will be a time of rapid change , as nations everywhere seek to deal with new problems and age old tensions . But America need have no fear . We can thrive in a world of change if we remain true to our values and actively engaged in promoting world peace . We will continue to work as we have for peace in the Middle East and southern Africa . We will continue to build our ties with developing nations , respecting and helping to strengthen their national independence which they have struggled so hard to achieve . And we will continue to support the growth of democracy and the protection of human rights . In repressive regimes , popular frustrations often have no outlet except through violence . But when peoples and their governments can approach their problems together through open , democratic methods , the basis for stability and peace is far more solid and far more enduring . That is why our support for human rights in other countries is in our own national interest as well as part of our own national character . Peace a peace that preserves freedom remains America s first goal . In the coming years , as a mighty nation we will continue to pursue peace . But to be strong abroad we must be strong at home . And in order to be strong , we must continue to face up to the difficult issues that confront us as a nation today . The crises in Iran and Afghanistan have dramatized a very important lesson Our excessive dependence on foreign oil is a clear and present danger to our nation s security . The need has never been more urgent . At long last , we must have a clear , comprehensive energy policy for the United States . As you well know , I have been working with the Congress in a concentrated and persistent way over the past three years to meet this need . We have made progress together . But Congress must act promptly now to complete final action on this vital energy legislation . Our nation will then have a major conservation effort , important initiatives to develop solar power , realistic pricing based on the true value of oil , strong incentives for the production of coal and other fossil fuels in the United States , and our nation s most massive peacetime investment in the development of synthetic fuels . The American people are making progress in energy conservation . Last year we reduced overall petroleum consumption by 8 percent and gasoline consumption by 5 percent below what it was the year before . Now we must do more . After consultation with the Governors , we will set gasoline conservation goals for each of the 50 states , and I will make them mandatory if these goals are not met . I have established an import ceiling for 1980 of 8 . 2 million barrels a day well below the level of foreign oil purchases in 1977 . I expect our imports to be much lower than this , but the ceiling will be enforced by an oil import fee if necessary . I am prepared to lower these imports still further if the other oil consuming countries will join us in a fair and mutual reduction . If we have a serious shortage , I will not hesitate to impose mandatory gasoline rationing immediately . The single biggest factor in the inflation rate last year , the increase in the inflation rate last year , was from one cause the skyrocketing prices of OPEC oil . We must take whatever actions are necessary to reduce our dependence on foreign oil and at the same time reduce inflation . As individuals and as families , few of us can produce energy by ourselves . But all of us can conserve energy every one of us , every day of our lives . Tonight I call on you in fact , all the people of America to help our nation . Conserve energy . Eliminate waste . Make 1980 indeed a year of energy conservation . Of course , we must take other actions to strengthen our nation s economy . First , we will continue to reduce the deficit and then to balance the federal budget . Second , as we continue to work with business to hold down prices , we will build also on the historic national accord with organized labor to restrain pay increases in a fair fight against inflation . Third , we will continue our successful efforts to cut paperwork and to dismantle unnecessary government regulation . Fourth , we will continue our progress in providing jobs for America , concentrating on a major new program to provide training and work for our young people , especially minority youth . It has been said that a mind is a terrible thing to waste . We will give our young people new hope for jobs and a better life in the 1980s . And fifth , we must use the decade of the 1980s to attack the basic structural weaknesses and problems in our economy through measures to increase productivity , savings , and investment . With these energy and economic policies , we will make America even stronger at home in this decade just as our foreign and defense policies will make us stronger and safer throughout the world . We will never abandon our struggle for a just and a decent society here at home . That is the heart of America and it is the source of our ability to inspire other people to defend their own rights abroad . Our material resources , great as they are , are limited . Our problems are too complex for simple slogans or for quick solutions . We cannot solve them without effort and sacrifice . Walter Lippmann once reminded us , You took the good things for granted . Now you must earn them again . For every right that you cherish , you have a duty which you must fulfill . For every good which you wish to preserve , you will have to sacrifice your comfort and your ease . There is nothing for nothing any longer . Our challenges are formidable . But there is a new spirit of unity and resolve in our country . We move into the 1980s with confidence and hope and a bright vision of the America we want an America strong and free , an America at peace , an America with equal rights for all citizens and for women , guaranteed in the United States Constitution an America with jobs and good health and good education for every citizen , an America with a clean and bountiful life in our cities and on our farms , an America that helps to feed the world , an America secure in filling its own energy needs , an America of justice , tolerance , and compassion . For this vision to come true , we must sacrifice , but this national commitment will be an exciting enterprise that will unify our people . Together as one people , let us work to build our strength at home , and together as one indivisible union , let us seek peace and security throughout the world . Together let us make of this time of challenge and danger a decade of national resolve and of brave achievement . Thank you very much .<speech_sep>Good morning . I have two brief statements to make , and then I will be glad to answer questions . I have sent to Congress this morning , a youth employment package which will consist of about 1 2 billion , part of the economic stimulus package . I have been particularly concerned in my own campaign trips around the country the last 2 years with the extraordinarily high unemployment rate among young people . More than half the total unemployed are less than 24 years old . And among those , say , from 16 to 19 years old , we have over 18 percent unemployment , and in some of the minority groups in urban areas more than 40 percent . So , we are going to try a heavy concentration of effort in several of the major departments of Government to cut down unemployment among our young people . We have , for instance , a Youth Conservation Corps similar to what we had during the Depression years known as a Civilian Conservation Corps , the CCThis will be administered by the Departments of Agriculture and Interior in the open spaces of our country . We will have a Youth Community Conservation Corps in the urban areas and a heavy emphasis on training for young people leading to employment . Including existing programs , this will be about a million jobs on a permanent basis plus another million jobs during the summer . I hope that the Congress will act quickly on this proposal . I might say that many of the Members of Congress have been equally concerned and have done a great deal of work on this subject even before I became President . The other item that I had like to mention is one that is already been reported to some degree . I have long been concerned about our own Nation s stance in prohibiting American citizens to travel to foreign countries . We also are quite eagerly assessing our own Nation s policies that violate human rights as defined by the Helsinki agreement . Later on this year we will go to Belgrade to assess the component parts of the Helsinki agreement . And I want to be sure that we do not violate those rights . So I have instructed the Secretary of State to remove any travel restrictions on American citizens who want to go to Vietnam , to North Korea , to Cuba , and to Cambodia . And these restrictions will be lifted as of the 18th day of March . I would like to point out that we still do not have diplomatic relationships with these countries . That is a doubtful prospect at this time . So , there will be some necessary precautions that ought to be taken by citizens who go there , since we do not have our own diplomats in those countries to protect them if they should have difficulty . I had be glad to answer any questions that you might have . Thomas . Well , I do not know which delegate this is or what his concerns are . But we are still concerned about deprivation of human rights in many of the countries of the world . I think Chile would be one of those where concern has been expressed . And I want to be sure that the American people understand that this is a very sensitive issue . We have tried to be broad based in our expression of concern and , also , responsible . At first , our policy was interpreted , I think , improperly , to deal exclusively with the Soviet Union . I have just pointed out how our own country has been at fault in some instances . Torture has been reported to us from some of the nations of the world . We are presenting these items to the Congress as required by law . But throughout the entire world , in Latin America , in our own country , in the Communist nations in Eastern Europe , and in the Soviet Union , we are very much aware of the concern about human rights . I think it is entirely appropriate for our own country to take the leadership role and let the world say that the focal point for the preservation and protection of human rights is in the United States of America . I am proud of this . And I intend to adhere to it with the deepest possible personal commitment , and I believe I speak accurately for the American people on this subject . I think that the remarks made by the delegate concerning our past involvement in Chilean political affairs was inappropriate . I did not know about it ahead of time . It was a personal expression of opinion by that delegate . I think that the Church committee in the Senate has not found any evidence that the United States was involved in the overthrow of the Allende government in Chile . There were some allegations made , I think , perhaps accurate , that we did have financial aid and other I think financial aid to be restrictive to political elements in Chile that may have contributed to the change in government . But I do not think there has been any proof of illegalities there . And the statements made by our delegate were his own personal statements , not representing our Government s . No , this is within the overall economic stimulus package already presented to the Congress . The defensible border phrase , the secure borders phrase , obviously , are just semantics . I think it is a relatively significant development in the description of possible settlement in the Middle East to talk about these things as a distinction . The recognized borders have to be mutual . The Arab nations , the Israeli nation , has to agree on permanent and recognized borders , where sovereignty is legal as mutually agreed . Defense lines may or may not conform in the foreseeable future to those legal borders . There may be extensions of Israeli defense capability beyond the permanent and recognized borders . I think this distinction is one that is now recognized by Israeli leaders . The definition of borders on a geographical basis is one that remains to be determined . But I think that it is important for the world to begin to see , and for the interested parties to begin to see , that there can be a distinction between the two the ability of Israel to defend herself by international agreement or by the some . time placement of Israeli forces themselves or by monitoring stations , as has been the case in the Sinai , beyond the actual sovereignty borders as mutually agreed by Israel and her neighbors . International zones could very well be part of an agreement . And I think that I can see in a growing way , a step by step process where there might be a mutual agreement that the ultimate settlement , even including the border delineations , would be at a certain described point . In an interim state , maybe 2 years , 4 years , 8 years , or more , there would be a mutual demonstration of friendship and an end to the declaration or state of war . I think that what Israel would like to have is what we would like to have a termination of belligerence toward Israel by her neighbors , a recognition of Israel s right to exist , the right to exist in peace , the opening up of borders with free trade , tourist travel , cultural exchange between Israel and her neighbors in other words , a stabilization of the situation in the Middle East without a constant threat to Israel s existence by her neighbors . This would involve substantial withdrawal of Israel s present control over territories . Now , where that withdrawal might end , I do not know . I would guess it would be some minor adjustments in the 1967 borders . But that still remains to be negotiated . But I think this is going to be a long , tedious process . We are going to mount a major effort in our own Government in 1977 , to bring the parties to Geneva . Obviously , any agreement has to be between the parties concerned . We will act as an intermediary when our good offices will serve well . But I am not trying to predispose our own Nation s attitudes towards what might be the ultimate details of the agreement that can mean so much to world peace . Yes . My commitment to withdraw American ground troops from Korea has not changed . I will be meeting this afternoon with the Foreign Minister of South Korea . This will be one of the matters that I will discuss . I have also talked to General Vessey , who is in charge of our Armed Forces in South Korea . I think that the time period as I described in the campaign months , a 4 or 5 year time period , is appropriate . The schedule for withdrawal of American ground troops would have to be worked out very carefully with the South Korean Government . It would also have to be done with the full understanding and , perhaps , participation of Japan . I would want to leave in place in South Korea , adequate ground forces owned by and controlled by the South Korean Government to protect themselves against any intrusion from North Korea . I would envision a continuation of American air cover for South Korea over a long period of time . But these are the basic elements , and I am very determined that over a period of time , as described just then , that our ground troops would be withdrawn . I do not think I would use the word minor withdrawals . I think there might be minor adjustments to the 1967 , pre 1967 borders . But that is a matter for Israel and her neighbors to decide between themselves . I believe that we will know by , I had say , the middle of May , much more clearly the positions of the interested parties . I have not yet met nor talked to the leaders in Lebanon , Syria , Jordan , Egypt Saudi Arabia , to a lesser direct participation degree . I will meet with all these leaders between now and the middle of May . And I do not want to try to define in any specific terms the exact delineation of borders , but I think this is obviously one of the most serious problems . There are three basic elements One is an ultimate commitment to complete peace in the Middle East second , border determinations which are highly controversial and not yet been defined by either side and , third , dealing with the Palestinian question . And I am not trying to act as the one to lay down an ultimate settlement . I do not know what an ultimate settlement will be . But these matters will be freely and openly debated within our own country and within the countries involved . And I think I have described as best I can my own position . Well , this was a subject that was well discussed during the campaign , as you remember . I think that the 1975 Housing Act , I believe it was 1975 , clearly describes a requirement that communities that request Federal help in establishing housing have to put forward a positive proposal to ensure a mixture of housing in the entire community without regard to race , and without regard to the economic level of the families involved . This does not mean that every individual city block or suburban block has to have all different kinds of housing in it . It does mean that the overall package , as proposed to the Federal Government , has to provide for a wide distribution of housing opportunities for those in minority groups or those who have a low income . And I believe that Secretary Harris statement is compatible with that law requirement . Well , my own interest would be to minimize the use of any criminal penalties for disclosure of information . There are other penalties that can be used without criminal charges , and I think that Vice President Mondale drew that distinction . I do not know yet what procedure we will follow . My own hope would be that we could prevent the disclosure of intelligence information that might be damaging to our national security , rather than trying to control that problem by the imposition of legal criminal penalties . Well , I think , first of all , is a tighter control over the number of people who have access to material that is highly sensitive , that might damage the relationship between our own country and our friends and allies . We have already initiated steps to that degree and we will be pursuing it . As you know , Admiral Turner has only recently been confirmed . He is just now getting his presence felt in the defense communities . I will be going out to the CIA headquarters this afternoon to see the oath of office administered to him . But we will make sure that the public knows what new policies we impose . But the one that is easiest to describe , and also very difficult to do , is to make sure that we do not have too many people knowing about matters that they do not need to know and , also , that we can protect the legitimate confidentiality of agreements between ourselves and our allies . Now , I would never permit anything that was either illegal or improper . And we have got a very good arrangement that was primarily set up by President Ford to prevent abuses . The Intelligence Oversight Board is made up of three distinguished men appointed by President Ford , who have complete access to any operation conducted by the intelligence forces . Senator Inouye s committee in the Senate and , I think , six committees in the House also have access to this information . Of course , I am monitoring it myself . And I think Admiral Turner s integrity is also a guarantee that there will be no future abuses . But that does not mean that everything that we do in gathering intelligence on which our security might very well depend has to be revealed to the public . And drawing of that distinction is one that is my responsibility , and I think I can handle that . I do not believe that the exact vote in the Senate on Warnke s confirmation will have a major effect on future negotiations with the Soviet Union on SALThe obvious impression that concerns me is a demonstration of lack of confidence of the Senate in my own ability and attitudes as a chief negotiator . Obviously , as President , any decisions made with the Russians on reduction of atomic weapons would have to be approved by me . I have promised the Joint Chiefs of Staff , who in the past perhaps have been bypassed in the process , that they will always know ahead of time what our position will be at the negotiating table . I have not promised the Joint Chiefs of Staff that they would have the right to approve or disapprove every individual item in negotiations . But I hope that the Senate will give Warnke a strong vote . I think many of the people that oppose Warnke just do not want to see any substantial reductions in atomic weapons , even though they are agreed to mutually by us and the Soviet Union or even if they are designed to reduce the threat of nuclear destruction of the world . I feel very deeply that we ought to pursue with every possible means , an agreement with the Soviet Union for substantial reductions in atomic weapons . I think Warnke agrees most of the Senators agree . So , there are a wide range of reasons for not voting for Warnke . I have complete confidence in him . And I might say there is one more very significant guard against any error that I and Warnke and the Secretary of State and others might make . The Senate has to approve , by a two thirds vote after complete open debate , any agreements signed with the Soviet Union . So , I think that the attacks on Warnke are primarily by those who do not want to see substantial reductions in nuclear weapons in the world . I have not been asked for any documents . And the Helms case has not come to my attention , either officially or even indirectly from any of the people involved . Whether or not to proceed with the case will be the exclusive right of the Justice Department . The revelation of any documents that affect our national security will be my own judgment , in this or other cases . I cannot respond any further than that , because that is all I know about the subject . Well , the prosecution of the case has nothing to do with me that will be a judgment made by the Justice Department . The actual revelation to a grand jury , or in case of a trial , if it should ever evolve , of confidential or secret material , would have to be judged by me . It may or may not . At that point , the responsibility for making a judgment and the responsibility for the consequences of an inaccurate judgment , if it should occur , would be my own . I would be opposed to mass arrests , and I would be opposed to preventive detention as a general policy and even as a specific policy , unless it was an extreme case . Obviously , in a 600 page report there would be things with which we would agree and things with which we would disagree . I have not seen the report . I am not familiar with it . But I think the abuses in the past have in many cases exacerbated the disharmonies that brought about demonstrations , and I think the arrest of large numbers of people without warrant or preventive detention is contrary to our own best system of government . question on the Helms case , he asked you if documents have been requested . They have not . If they have asked for it , it has not come to my attention . I cannot say that somewhere in the pipeline from the Justice Department , the State Department , the CIor even my own counsel , that requests have been made . But I have not been aware of them . I have not received any request from Lipshutz . Obviously , when something gets to the White House it takes time for them to staff it and give me the options I have to address and , since I am not an attorney , to give me some opinion on the legalities of . But it has not come to my attention at all . I do not know . Yes , I am . The request was made to me to talk to Moore as a precondition for his releasing the police officer who now has been held about 24 hours . I replied that I would be glad to talk to Moore after the police officer was released . It is perhaps a dangerous precedent to establish . I weighed that factor before I made my own decision . I understand that Moore has promised to release the police officer after this news conference , regardless of any comments that I might make on it . And I hope that the police officer will be released . But if he should be released , I will talk to Moore . Well , you added a great deal to what I said . In the first place , I did not mention any particular parts of the geography around Israel . And I did not confine the defense capability to Israeli forces . These might very well be international forces . It might very well be a line that is fairly broad , say , 20 kilometers or more , where demilitarization is guaranteed on both sides . It might very well consist of outposts , electronics or , perhaps , personnel outposts as were established in the Sinai region as a result of the Egypt and Israeli agreement . I am not going to try to get more specific in saying what will or will not be the case . But that is a possibility that might lead to the alleviation of tension there , and it is one about which I will be discussing this matter with the representatives from the Arab countries when they come . We have not addressed that question yet . How to encourage , or perhaps even to force the end of wasting natural gas just for the generation of heat at central power plant stations is something that we will have to address . It may be done by legislation it may be done by economic penalties it may be done by an appeal to the stationary heat producers to shift on a patriotic basis . I cannot yet say which of the proposals will be mandatory and which will be voluntary . The Soviet Union , so far as I know , still would like to include the cruise missile question in the present negotiations . They do not want to discuss Backfire bomber at all . And my hope has been and is that by the exclusion of both those controversial items , which will require long and tedious negotiations , that we might move to a rapid agreement at SALT II and immediately begin to discuss , for instance , the Backfire bombers , the cruise missiles in subsequent negotiations . But I do not have any indication yet that the Soviets have changed their position on that issue . Again , I think you have two approaches to the question . I have proposed both directly and indirectly to the Soviet Union , publicly and privately , that we try to identify those items on which there is relatively close agreement not completely yet , because details are very difficult on occasion . But I have , for instance , suggested that we forgo the opportunity to arm satellite bodies and also to forgo the opportunity to destroy observation satellites . We have also proposed that the Indian Ocean be completely demilitarized , that a comprehensive test ban be put into effect , that prior notification of test missile launchings be exchanged . And I would like to see any of these items on which the Soviets will agree quickly , be concluded , and then get down to the much more difficult negotiations on much more drastic , overall commitments to atomic weapons , leading ultimately to the complete elimination of atomic weapons from the face of the Earth . This is going to be a long , slow , tedious process . But I think if we and the Soviets could agree on the easier items and none of them are very easy quickly , it would show good faith . I think it would let the world know that we are serious in stopping once and for all what has been a continuous and rapid escalation in atomic weapon capabilities since they were first evolved . Thank you very much .<speech_sep>President , Speaker , members of the 96th Congress , and my fellow citizens Tonight I want to examine in a broad sense the state of our American Union how we are building a new foundation for a peaceful and a prosperous world . Our children who will be born this year will come of age in the 21st century . What kind of society , what kind of world are we building for them Will we ourselves be at peace Will our children enjoy a better quality of life Will a strong and united America still be a force for freedom and prosperity around the world Tonight , there is every sign that the state of our Union is sound . Our economy offers greater prosperity for more of our people than ever before . Real per capita income and real business profits have risen substantially in the last two years . Farm exports are setting an all time record each year , and farm income last year , net farm income , was up more than 25 percent . Our liberties are secure . Our military defenses are strong and growing stronger . And more importantly , tonight , America our beloved country is at peace . Our earliest national commitments , modified and reshaped by succeeding generations , have served us well . But the problems that we face today are different from those that confronted earlier generations of Americans . They are more subtle , more complex , and more interrelated . At home , we are recognizing ever more clearly that government alone cannot solve these problems . And abroad , few of them can be solved by the United States alone . But Americans as a united people , working with our allies and friends , have never been afraid to face problems and to solve problems , either here or abroad . The challenge to us is to build a new and firmer foundation for the future for a sound economy , for a more effective government , for more political trust , and for a stable peace so that the America our children inherit will be even stronger and even better than it is today . We cannot resort to simplistic or extreme solutions which substitute myths for common sense . In our economy , it is a myth that we must choose endlessly between inflation and recession . Together , we build the foundation for a strong economy , with lower inflation , without contriving either a recession with its high unemployment or unworkable , mandatory government controls . In our government , it is a myth that we must choose between compassion and competence . Together , we build the foundation for a government that works and works for people . In our relations with our potential adversaries , it is a myth that we must choose between confrontation and capitulation . Together , we build the foundation for a stable world of both diversity and peace . Together , we have already begun to build the foundation for confidence in our economic system . During the last two years , in bringing our economy out of the deepest recession since the 1930s , we have created 7 , 100 , 000 new jobs . The unemployment rate has gone down 25 percent . And now we must redouble our fight against the persistent inflation that has wracked our country for more than a decade . That is our important domestic issue , and we must do it together . We know that inflation is a burden for all Americans , but it is a disaster for the poor , the sick , and the old . No American family should be forced to choose among food , warmth , health care , or decent housing because the cost of any of these basic necessities has climbed out of reach . Three months ago , I outlined to the nation a balanced anti inflation program that couples responsible government restraint with responsible wage and price restraint . It is based upon my knowledge that there is a more powerful force than government compulsion the force created by the cooperative efforts of millions of Americans working toward a common goal . Business and labor have been increasingly supportive . It is imperative that we in government do our part . We must stop excessive government growth , and we must control government spending habits . I have sent to this Congress a stringent but a fair budget , one that , since I ran for President in 1976 , will have cut the federal deficit in half . And as a percentage of our gross national product , the deficit will have dropped by almost 75 percent . This Congress had a good record last year , and I now ask the 96th Congress to continue this partnership in holding the line on excess federal spending . It will not be easy . But we must be strong , and we must be persistent . This budget is a clear message that , with the help of you and the American people , I am determined , as President , to bring inflation under control . The 1980 budget provides enough spending restraint to begin unwinding inflation , but enough support for our country to keep American workers productive and to encourage the investments that provide new jobs . We will continue to mobilize our nation s resources to reduce our trade deficit substantially this year and to maintain the strength of the American dollar . We have demonstrated in this restrained budget that we can build on the gains of the past two years to provide additional support to educate disadvantaged children , to care for the elderly , to provide nutrition and legal services for the poor , and to strengthen the economic base of our urban communities and , also , our rural areas . This year , we will take our first steps to develop a national health plan . We must never accept a permanent group of unemployed Americans , with no hope and no stake in building our society . For those left out of the economy because of discrimination , a lack of skills , or poverty , we must maintain high levels of training , and we must continue to provide jobs . A responsible budget is not our only weapon to control inflation . We must act now to protect all Americans from health care costs that are rising 1 million per hour , 24 hours a day , doubling every five years . We must take control of the largest contributor to that inflation skyrocketing hospital costs . There will be no clearer test of the commitment of this Congress to the anti inflation fight than the legislation that I will submit again this year to hold down inflation in hospital care . Over the next five years , my proposals will save Americans a total of 60 billion , of which 25 billion will be savings to the American taxpayer in the federal budget itself . The American people have waited long enough . This year we must act on hospital cost containment . We must also fight inflation by improvements and better enforcement of our antitrust laws and by reducing government obstacles to competition in the private sector . We must begin to scrutinize the overall effect of regulation in our economy . Through deregulation of the airline industry we have increased profits , cut prices for all Americans , and begun for one of the few times in the history of our nation to actually dismantle a major federal bureaucracy . This year , we must begin the effort to reform our regulatory processes for the railroad , bus , and the trucking industries . America has the greatest economic system in the world . Let us reduce government interference and give it a chance to work . I call on Congress to take other anti inflation action to expand our exports to protect American jobs threatened by unfair trade , to conserve energy , to increase production and to speed development of solar power , and to reassess our nation s technological superiority . American workers who enlist in the fight against inflation deserve not just our gratitude , but they deserve the protection of the real wage insurance proposal that I have already made to the Congress . To be successful , we must change our attitudes as well as our policies . We cannot afford to live beyond our means . We cannot afford to create programs that we can neither manage nor finance , or to waste our natural resources , and we cannot tolerate mismanagement and fraud . Above all , we must meet the challenges of inflation as a united people . With the support of the American people , government in recent decades has helped to dismantle racial barriers , has provided assistance for the jobless and the retired , has fed the hungry , has protected the safety , health , and bargaining rights of American workers , and has helped to preserve our natural heritage . But it is not enough to have created a lot of government programs . Now we must make the good programs more effective and improve or weed out those which are wasteful or unnecessary . With the support of the Congress , we have begun to reorganize and to get control of the bureaucracy . We are reforming the civil service system , so that we can recognize and reward those who do a good job and correct or remove those who do not . This year , we must extend major reorganization efforts to education , to economic development , and to the management of our natural resources . We need to enact a sunshine law that when government programs have outlived their value , they will automatically be terminated . There is no such thing as an effective and a noncontroversial reorganization and reform . But we know that honest , effective government is essential to restore public faith in our public action . None of us can be satisfied when two thirds of the American citizens chose not to vote last year in a national election . Too many Americans feel powerless against the influence of private lobbying groups and the unbelievable flood of private campaign money which threatens our electoral process . This year , we must regain the public s faith by requiring limited financial funds from public funds for congressional election campaigns . House bill 1 provides for this public financing of campaigns . And I look forward with a great deal of anticipation to signing it at an early date . A strong economy and an effective government will restore confidence in America . But the path of the future must be charted in peace . We must continue to build a new and a firm foundation for a stable world community . We are building that new foundation from a position of national strength the strength of our own defenses , the strength of our friendships with other nations , and of our oldest American ideals . America s military power is a major force for security and stability in the world . We must maintain our strategic capability and continue the progress of the last two years with our NATO Allies , with whom we have increased our readiness , modernized our equipment , and strengthened our defense forces in Europe . I urge you to support the strong defense budget which I have proposed to the Congress . But our national security in this complicated age requires more than just military might . In less than a lifetime , world population has more than doubled , colonial empires have disappeared , and a hundred new nations have been born . Mass communications , literacy , and migration to the world s cities have all awakened new yearnings for economic justice and human rights among people everywhere . This demand for justice and human rights is a wave of the future . In such a world , the choice is not which super power will dominate the world . None can and none will . The choice instead is between a world of anarchy and destruction , or a world of cooperation and peace . In such a world , we seek not to stifle inevitable change , but to influence its course in helpful and constructive ways that enhance our values , our national interests , and the cause of peace . Towering over this volatile , changing world , like a thundercloud on a summer day , looms the awesome power of nuclear weapons . We will continue to help shape the forces of change , to anticipate emerging problems of nuclear proliferation and conventional arms sales , and to use our great strength and influence to settle international conflicts in other parts of the world before they erupt and spread . We have no desire to be the world s policeman . But America does want to be the world s peacemaker . We are building the foundation for truly global cooperation , not only with Western and industrialized nations but with the developing countries as well . Our ties with Japan and our European allies are stronger than ever , and so are our friendly relations with the people of Latin America , Africa , and the Western Pacific and Asia . We have won new respect in this hemisphere with the Panama Canal treaties . We have gained new trust with the developing world through our opposition to racism , our commitment to human rights , and our support for majority rule in Africa . The multilateral trade negotiations are now reaching a successful conclusion , and congressional approval is essential to the economic well being of our own country and of the world . This will be one of our top priorities in 1979 . We are entering a hopeful era in our relations with one fourth of the world s people who live in China . The presence of Vice Premier Deng Xiaoping next week will help to inaugurate that new era . And with prompt congressional action on authorizing legislation , we will continue our commitment to a prosperous , peaceful , and secure life for the people of Taiwan . I am grateful that in the past year , as in the year before , no American has died in combat anywhere in the world . And in Iran , Nicaragua , Cyprus , Namibia , and Rhodesia , our country is working for peaceful solutions to dangerous conflicts . In the Middle East , under the most difficult circumstances , we have sought to help ancient enemies lay aside deep seated differences that have produced four bitter wars in our lifetime . Our firm commitment to Israel s survival and security is rooted in our deepest convictions and in our knowledge of the strategic importance to our own nation of a stable Middle East . To promote peace and reconciliation in the region , we must retain the trust and the confidence both of Israel and also of the Arab nations that are sincerely searching for peace . I am determined , as President , to use the full , beneficial influence of our country so that the precious opportunity for lasting peace between Israel and Egypt will not be lost . The new foundation of international cooperation that we seek excludes no nation . Cooperation with the Soviet Union serves the cause of peace , for in this nuclear age , world peace must include peace between the super powers and it must mean the control of nuclear arms . Ten years ago , the United States and the Soviet Union made the historic decision to open the strategic arms limitations talks , or SALThe purpose of SALthen as now , is not to gain a unilateral advantage for either nation , but to protect the security of both nations , to reverse the costly and dangerous momentum of the nuclear arms race , to preserve a stable balance of nuclear forces , and to demonstrate to a concerned world that we are determined to help preserve the peace . The first SALT agreement was concluded in 1972 . And since then , during six years of negotiation by both Republican and Democratic leaders , nearly all issues of SALT II have been resolved . If the Soviet Union continues to negotiate in good faith , a responsible SALT agreement will be reached . It is important that the American people understand the nature of the SALT process . SALT II is not based on sentiment it is based on self interest of the United States and of the Soviet Union . Both nations share a powerful common interest in reducing the threat of a nuclear war . I will sign no agreement which does not enhance our national security . SALT II does not rely on trust it will be verifiable . We have very sophisticated , proven means , including our satellites , to determine for ourselves whether or not the Soviet Union is meeting its treaty obligations . I will sign no agreement which cannot he verified . The American nuclear deterrent will remain strong after SALT IFor example , just one of our relatively invulnerable Poseidon submarines comprising less than 2 percent of our total nuclear force of submarines , aircraft , and landbased missiles carries enough warheads to destroy every large and medium sized city in the Soviet Union . Our deterrent is overwhelming , and I will sign no agreement unless our deterrent force will remain overwhelming . A SALT agreement , of course , cannot substitute for wise diplomacy or a strong defense , nor will it end the danger of nuclear war . But it will certainly reduce that danger . It will strengthen our efforts to ban nuclear tests and to stop the spread of atomic weapons to other nations . And it can begin the process of negotiating new agreements which will further limit nuclear arms . The path of arms control , backed by a strong defense the path our nation and every President has walked for 30 years can lead to a world of law and of international negotiation and consultation in which all peoples might live in peace . In this year 1979 , nothing is more important than that the Congress and the people of the United States resolve to continue with me on that path of nuclear arms control and world peace . This is paramount . I have outlined some of the changes that have transformed the world and which are continuing as we meet here tonight . But we in America need not fear change . The values on which our nation was founded individual liberty , self determination , the potential for human fulfillment in freedom all of these endure . We find these democratic principles praised , even in books smuggled out of totalitarian nations and on wallposters in lands which we thought were closed to our influence . Our country has regained its special place of leadership in the worldwide struggle for human rights . And that is a commitment that we must keep at home , as well as abroad . The civil rights revolution freed all Americans , black and white , but its full promise still remains unrealized . I will continue to work with all my strength for equal opportunity for all Americans and for affirmative action for those who carry the extra burden of past denial of equal opportunity . We remain committed to improving our labor laws to better protect the rights of American workers . And our nation must make it clear that the legal rights of women as citizens are guaranteed under the laws of our land by ratifying the equal rights amendment . As long as I am President , at home and around the world America s examples and America s influence will be marshaled to advance the cause of human rights . To establish those values , two centuries ago a bold generation of Americans risked their property , their position , and life itself . We are their heirs , and they are sending us a message across the centuries . The words they made so vivid are now growing faintly indistinct , because they are not heard often enough . They are words like justice , equality , unity , truth , sacrifice , liberty , faith , and love . These words remind us that the duty of our generation of Americans is to renew our nation s faith not focused just against foreign threats but against the threats of selfishness , cynicism , and apathy . The new foundation I have discussed tonight can help us build a nation and a world where every child is nurtured and can look to the future with hope , where the resources now wasted on war can be turned towards meeting human needs , where all people have enough to eat , a decent home , and protection against disease . It can help us build a nation and a world where all people are free to seek the truth and to add to human understanding , so that all of us may live our lives in peace . Tonight , I ask you , the members of the Congress , to join me in building that new foundation a better foundation for our beloved country and our world . Thank you very much .<speech_sep>Fellow Democrats , fellow citizens I thank you for the nomination you have offered me , and I especially thank you for choosing as my running mate the best partner any President ever had , Fritz Mondale . With gratitude and with determination I accept your nomination , and I am proud to run on the progressive and sound platform that you have hammered out at this convention . Fritz and I will mount a campaign that defines the real issues , a campaign that responds to the intelligence of the American people , a campaign that talks sense . And we are going to beat the Republicans in November . We will win because we are the party of a great President who knew how to get reelected Franklin Delano Roosevelt . And we are the party of a courageous fighter who knew how to give em hell Harry Truman . And as Truman said , he just told the truth and they thought it was hell . And we are the party of a gallant man of spirit John Fitzgerald Kennedy . And we are the party of a great leader of compassion Lyndon Baines Johnson , and the party of a great man who should have been President , who would have been one of the greatest Presidents in history Hubert Horatio Hornblower Humphrey . I have appreciated what this convention has said about Senator Humphrey , a great man who epitomized the spirit of the Democratic Party . And I would like to say that we are also the party of Governor Jerry Brown and Senator Edward Kennedy . I had like to say a personal word to Senator Kennedy . Ted , you are a tough competitor and a superb campaigner , and I can attest to that . Your speech before this convention was a magnificent statement of what the Democratic Party is and what it means to the people of this country and why a Democratic victory is so important this year . I reach out to you tonight , and I reach out to all those who supported you in your valiant and passionate campaign . Ted , your party needs and I need you . And I need your idealism and your dedication working for us . There is no doubt that even greater service lies ahead of you , and we are grateful to you and to have your strong partnership now in a larger cause to which your own life has been dedicated . I thank you for your support we will make great partners this fall in whipping the Republicans . We are Democrats and we have had our differences , but we share a bright vision of America s future a vision of a good life for all our people , a vision of a secure nation , a just society , a peaceful world , a strong America confident and proud and united . And we have a memory of Franklin Roosevelt , 40 years ago , when he said that there are times in our history when concerns over our personal lives are overshadowed by our concern over what will happen to the county we have known . This is such a time , and I can tell you that the choice to be made this year can transform our own personal lives and the life of our country as well . During the last Presidential campaign , I crisscrossed this country and I listened to thousands and thousands of people housewives and farmers , teachers and small business leaders , workers and students , the elderly and the poor , people of every race and every background and every walk of life . It was a powerful experience a total immersion in the human reality of America . And I have now had another kind of total immersion being President of the United States of America . Let me talk for a moment about what that job is like and what I have learned from it . I have learned that only the most complex and difficult task comes before me in the Oval Office . No easy answers are found there , because no easy questions come there . I have learned that for a President , experience is the best guide to the right decisions . I am wiser tonight than I was 4 years ago . And I have learned that the Presidency is a place of compassion . My own heart is burdened for the troubled Americans . The poor and the jobless and the afflicted they have become part of me . My thoughts and my prayers for our hostages in Iran are as though they were my own sons and daughters . The life of every human being on Earth can depend on the experience and judgment and vigilance of the person in the Oval Office . The President s power for building and his power for destruction are awesome . And the power s greatest exactly where the stakes are highest in matters of war and peace . And I have learned something else , something that I have come to see with extraordinary clarity Above all , I must look ahead , because the President of the United States is the steward of the Nation s destiny . He must protect our children and the children they will have and the children of generations to follow . He must speak and act for them . That is his burden and his glory . And that is why a President cannot yield to the shortsighted demands , no matter how rich or powerful the special interests might be that make those demands . And that is why the President cannot bend to the passions of the moment , however popular they might be . That is why the President must sometimes ask for sacrifice when his listeners would rather hear the promise of comfort . The President is a servant of today , but his true constituency is the future . That is why the election of 1980 is so important . Some have said it makes no difference who wins this election . They are wrong . This election is a stark choice between two men , two parties , two sharply different pictures of what America is and what the world is , but it is more than that it is a choice between two futures . The year 2000 is just less than 20 years away , just four Presidential elections after this one . Children born this year will come of age in the 21st century . The time to shape the world of the year 2000 is now . The decisions of the next few years will set our course , perhaps an irreversible course , and the most important of all choices will be made by the American people at the polls less than 3 months from tonight . The choice could not be more clear nor the consequences more crucial . In one of the futures we can choose , the future that you and I have been building together , I see security and justice and peace . I see a future of economic security security that will come from tapping our own great resources of oil and gas , coal and sunlight , and from building the tools and technology and factories for a revitalized economy based on jobs and stable prices for everyone . I see a future of justice the justice of good jobs , decent health care , quality education , a full opportunity for all people regardless of color or language or religion the simple human justice of equal rights for all men and for all women , guaranteed equal rights at last under the Constitution of the United States of America . And I see a future of peace a peace born of wisdom and based on a fairness toward all countries of the world , a peace guaranteed both by American military strength and by American moral strength as well . That is the future I want for all people , a future of confidence and hope and a good life . It is the future America must choose , and with your help and with your commitment , it is the future America will choose . But there is another possible future . In that other future I see despair despair of millions who would struggle for equal opportunity and a better life and struggle alone . And I see surrender the surrender of our energy future to the merchants of oil , the surrender of our economic future to a bizarre program of massive tax cuts for the rich , service cuts for the poor , and massive inflation for everyone . And I see risk the risk of international confrontation , the risk of an uncontrollable , unaffordable , and unwinnable nuclear arms race . No one , Democrat or Republican either , consciously seeks such a future , and I do not claim that my opponent does . But I do question the disturbing commitments and policies already made by him and by those with him who have now captured control of the Republican Party . The consequences of those commitments and policies would drive us down the wrong road . It is up to all of us to make sure America rejects this alarming and even perilous destiny . The only way to build a better future is to start with the realities of the present . But while we Democrats grapple with the real challenges of a real world , others talk about a world of tinsel and make believe . Let us look for a moment at their make believe world . In their fantasy America , inner city people and farm workers and laborers do not exist . Women , like children , are to be seen but not heard . The problems of working women are simply ignored . The elderly do not need Medicare . The young do not need more help in getting a better education . Workers do not require the guarantee of a healthy and a safe place to work . In their fantasy world , all the complex global changes of the world since World War II have never happened . In their fantasy America , all problems have simple solutions simple and wrong . It is a make believe world , a world of good guys and bad guys , where some politicians shoot first and ask questions later . No hard choices , no sacrifice , no tough decisions it sounds too good to be true , and it is . The path of fantasy leads to irresponsibility . The path of reality leads to hope and peace . The two paths could not be more different , nor could the futures to which they lead . Let us take a hard look at the consequences of our choice . You and I have been working toward a more secure future by rebuilding our military strength steadily , carefully , and responsibly . The Republicans talk about military strength , but they were in office for 8 out of the last 11 years , and in the face of a growing Soviet threat they steadily cut real defense spending by more than a third . We have reversed the Republican decline in defense . Every year since I have been President we have had real increases in our commitment to a stronger Nation , increases which are prudent and rational . There is no doubt that the United States of America can meet a threat from the Soviet Union . Our modernized strategic forces , a revitalized NATthe Trident submarine , the Cruise missile , the Rapid Deployment Force all these guarantee that we will never be second to any nation . Deeds , not words fact , not fiction . We must and we will continue to build our own defenses . We must and we will continue to seek balanced reductions in nuclear arms . The new leaders of the Republican Party , in order to close the gap between their rhetoric and their record , have now promised to launch an all out nuclear arms race . This would negate any further effort to negotiate a strategic arms limitation agreement . There can be no winners in such an arms race , and all the people of the Earth can be the losers . The Republican nominee advocates abandoning arms control policies which have been important and supported by every Democratic President since Harry , Truman , and also by every Republican President since Dwight Eisenhower . This radical and irresponsible course would threaten our security and could put the whole world in peril . You and I must never let this come to pass . It is simple to call for a new arms race , but when armed aggression threatens world peace , tough sounding talk like that is not enough . A President must act responsibly . When Soviet troops invaded Afghanistan , we moved quickly to take action . I suspended some grain sales to the Soviet Union I called for draft registration and I joined wholeheartedly with the Congress and with the Olympic Committee and led more than 60 other nations in boycotting the big propaganda show in Russia the Moscow Olympics . The Republican leader opposed two of these forceful but peaceful actions , and he waffled on the third . But when we asked him what he would do about aggression in Southwest Asia , he suggested blockading Cuba . Even his running mate would not go along with that . He does not seem to know what to do with the Russians . He is not sure if he wants to feed them or play with them or fight with them . As I look back at my first term , I am grateful that we have had a country for the full 4 years of peace . And that is what we are going to have for the next 4 years peace . It is only common sense that if America is to stay secure and at peace , we must encourage others to be peaceful as well . As you know , we have helped in Zimbabwe Rhodesia where we have stood firm for racial justice and democracy . And we have also helped in the Middle East . Some have criticized the Camp David accords and they have criticized some delays in the implementation of the Middle East peace treaty . Well , before I became President there was no Camp David accords and there was no Middle East peace treaty . Before Camp David , Israel and Egypt were poised across barbed wire , confronting each other with guns and tanks and planes . But afterward , they talked face to face with each other across a peace table , and they also communicated through their own Ambassadors in Cairo and Tel Aviv . Now that is the kind of future we are offering of peace to the Middle East if the Democrats are reelected in the fall . I am very proud that nearly half the aid that our country has ever given to Israel in the 32 years of her existence has come during my administration . Unlike our Republican predecessors , we have never stopped nor slowed that aid to Israel . And as long as I am President , we will never do so . Our commitment is clear security and peace for Israel peace for all the peoples of the Middle East . But if the world is to have a future of freedom as well as peace , America must continue to defend human rights . Now listen to this The new Republican leaders oppose our human rights policy . They want to scrap it . They seem to think it is naive for America to stand up for freedom and democracy . Just what do they think we should stand up for Ask the former political prisoners who now live in freedom if we should abandon our stand on human rights . Ask the dissidents in the Soviet Union about our commitment to human rights . Ask the Hungarian Americans , ask the Polish Americans , listen to Pope John Paul IAsk those who are suffering for the sake of justice and liberty around the world . Ask the millions who have fled tyranny if America should stop speaking out for human principles . Ask the American people . I tell you that as long as I am President , we will hold high the banner of human rights , and you can depend on it . Here at home the choice between the two futures is equally important . In the long run , nothing is more crucial to the future of America than energy nothing was so disastrously neglected in the past . Long after the 1973 Arab oil embargo , the Republicans in the White House had still done nothing to meet the threat to the national security of our Nation . Then , as now , their policy was dictated by the big oil companies . We Democrats fought hard to rally our Nation behind a comprehensive energy policy and a good program , a new foundation for challenging and exciting progress . Now , after 3 years of struggle , we have that program . The battle to secure America s energy future has been fully and finally joined . Americans have cooperated with dramatic results . We have reversed decades of dangerous and growing dependence on foreign oil . We are now importing 20 percent less oil that is 1 1 2 million barrels of oil every day less than the day I took office . And with our new energy policy now in place , we can discover more , produce more , create more , and conserve more energy , and we will use American resources , American technology , and millions of American workers to do it with . Now , what do the Republicans propose Basically , their energy program has two parts . The first part is to get rid of almost everything that we have done for the American public in the last 3 years . They want to reduce or abolish the synthetic fuels program . They want to slash the solar energy incentives , the conservation programs , aid to mass transit , aid to elderly Americans to help pay their fuel bills . They want to eliminate the 55 mile speed limit . And while they are at it , the Republicans would like to gut the Clean Air Act . They never liked it to begin with . That is one part of their program the other part is worse . To replace what we have built , this is what they propose to destroy the windfall profits tax and to unleash the oil companies and let them solve the energy problem for us . That is it . That is it . That is their whole program . There is no more . Can this Nation accept such an outrageous program No We Democrats will fight it every step of the way , and we will begin tomorrow morning with a campaign for reelection in November . When I took office , I inherited a heavy load of serious economic problems besides energy , and we have met them all head on . We have slashed Government regulations and put free enterprise back into the airlines , the trucking and the financial systems of our country , and we are now doing the same thing for the railroads . This is the greatest change in the relationship between Government and business since the New Deal . We have increased our exports dramatically . We have reversed the decline in the basic research and development , and we have created more than 8 million new jobs the biggest increase in the history of our country . But the road is bumpy , and last year s skyrocketing OPEC price increases have helped to trigger a worldwide inflation crisis . We took forceful action , and interest rates have now fallen , the dollar is stable and , although we still have a battle on our hands , we are struggling to bring inflation under control . We are now at the critical point , a turning point in our economic history of our country . But because we made the hard decisions , because we have guided our Nation and its economy through a rough but essential period of transition , we have laid the groundwork for a new economic age . Our economic renewal program for the 1980 s will meet our immediate need for jobs and attack the very same , long range problem that caused unemployment and inflation in the first place . It will move America simultaneously towards our five great economic goals lower inflation , better productivity , revitalization of American industry , energy security , and jobs . It is time to put all America back to work but not in make work , in real work . And there is real work in modernizing American industries and creating new industries for America as well . Here are just a few things we will rebuild together and build together new industries to turn our own coal and shale and farm products into fuel for our cars and trucks and to turn the light of the sun into heat and electricity for our homes a modern transportation system of railbeds and ports to make American coal into a powerful rival of OPEC oil industries that will provide the convenience of futuristic computer technology and communications to serve millions of American homes and offices and factories job training for workers displaced by economic changes new investment pinpointed in regions and communities where jobs are needed most better mass transit in our cities and in between cities and a whole new generation of American jobs to make homes and vehicles and buildings that will house us and move us in comfort with a lot less energy . This is important , too I have no doubt that the ingenuity , and dedication of the American people can make every single one of these things happen . We are talking about the United States of America , and those who count this country out as an economic superpower are going to find out just how wrong they are . We are going to share in the exciting enterprise of making the 1980 s a time of growth for America . The Republican alternative is the biggest tax giveaway in history . They call it Reagan Kemp Roth I call it a free lunch that Americans cannot afford . The Republican tax program offers rebates to the rich , deprivation for the poor , and fierce inflation for all of us . Their party s own Vice Presidential nominee said that Reagan Kemp Roth would result in an inflation rate of more than 30 percent . He called it voodoo economics . He suddenly changed his mind toward the end of the Republican Convention , but he was right the first time . Along with this gigantic tax cut , the new Republican leaders promise to protect retirement and health programs and to have massive increases in defense spending and they claim they can balance the budget . If they are serious about these promises , and they say they are , then a close analysis shows that the entire rest of the Government would have to be abolished , everything from education to farm programs , from the bill to the night watchman at the Lincoln Memorial and their budget would still be in the red . The only alternative would be to build more printing presses to print cheap money . Either way , the American people lose . But the American people will not stand for it . The Democratic Party has always embodied the hope of our people for justice , opportunity , and a better life , and we have worked in every way possible to strengthen the American family , to encourage self reliance , and to follow the Old Testament admonition Defend the poor and the fatherless give justice to the afflicted and needy . We have struggled to assure that no child in America ever goes to bed hungry , that no elderly couple in America has to live in a substandard home , and that no young person in America is excluded from college because the family is poor . But what have the Republicans proposed just an attack on everything that we have done in the achievement of social justice and decency that we have won in the last 50 years , ever since Franklin Delano Roosevelt s first term . They would make social security voluntary . They would reverse our progress on the minimum wage , full employment laws , safety in the work place , and a healthy environment . Lately , as you know , the Republicans have been quoting Democratic Presidents . But who can blame them Would you rather quote Herbert Hoover or Franklin Delano Roosevelt Would you rather quote Richard Nixon or John Fitzgerald Kennedy The Republicans have always been the party of privilege , but this year their leaders have gone even further . In their platform , they have repudiated the best traditions of their own party . Where is the conscience of Lincoln in the party of Lincoln What is become of their traditional Republican commitment to fiscal responsibility What is happened to their commitment to a safe and sane arms control Now , I do not claim perfection for the Democratic Party . I do not claim that every decision that we have made has been right or popular certainly , they have not all been easy . But I will say this We have been tested under fire . We have neither ducked nor hidden , and we have tackled the great central issues of our time , the historic challenges of peace and energy , which have been ignored for years . We have made tough decisions , and we have taken the heat for them . We have made mistakes , and we have learned from them . But we have built the foundation now for a better future . We have done something else , perhaps even more important . In good times and bad , in the valleys and on the peaks , we have told people the truth , the hard truth , the truth that sometimes hurts . One truth that we Americans have learned is that our dream has been earned for progress and for peace . Look what our land has been through within our own memory a great depression , a world war , a technological explosion , the civil rights revolution , the bitterness of Vietnam , the shame of Watergate , the twilight peace of nuclear terror . Through each of these momentous experiences we have learned the hard way about the world and about ourselves . But we have matured and we have grown as a nation and we have grown stronger . We have learned the uses and the limitations of power . We have learned the beauty and responsibility of freedom . We have learned the value and the obligation of justice . And we have learned the necessity of peace . Some would argue that to master these lessons is somehow to limit our potential . That is not so . A nation which knows its true strengths , which sees its true challenges , which understands legitimate constraints , that nation our nation is far stronger than one which takes refuge in wishful thinking or nostalgia . The Democratic Party the American people have understood these fundamental truths . All of us can sympathize with the desire for easy answers . There is often the temptation to substitute idle dreams for hard reality . The new Republican leaders are hoping that our Nation will succumb to that temptation this year , but they profoundly misunderstand and underestimate the character of the American people . Three weeks after Pearl Harbor , Winston Churchill came to North America and he said , We have not journeyed all this way across the centuries , across the oceans , across the mountains , across the prairies , because we are made of sugar candy . We Americans have courage . Americans have always been on the cutting edge of change . We have always looked forward with anticipation and confidence . I still want the same thing that all of you want a self reliant neighborhood , strong families , work for the able bodied and good medical care for the sick , opportunity for our youth and dignity for our old , equal rights and justice for all people . I want teachers eager to explain what a civilization really is , and I want students to understand their own needs and their own aims , but also the needs and yearnings of their neighbors . I want women free to pursue without limit the full life of what they want for themselves . I want our farmers growing crops to feed our Nation and the world , secure in the knowledge that the family farm will thrive and with a fair return on the good work they do for all of us . I want workers to see meaning in the labor they perform and work enough to guarantee a job for every worker in this country . And I want the people in business free to pursue with boldness and freedom new ideas . And I want minority citizens fully to join the mainstream of American life . And I want from the bottom of my heart to remove the blight of racial and other discrimination from the face of our Nation , and I am determined to do it . I need for all of you to join me in fulfilling that vision . The choice , the choice between the two futures , could not be more clear . If we succumb to a dream world then we will wake up to a nightmare . But if we start with reality and fight to make our dreams a reality , then Americans will have a good life , a life of meaning and purpose in a nation that is strong and secure . Above all , I want us to be what the Founders of our Nation meant us to become the land of freedom , the land of peace , and the land of hope . Thank you very much .<speech_sep>Secretary General and distinguished leaders from throughout our own country and from throughout this hemisphere First of all , I want to express my deep thanks to the leaders who have come here from 27 nations in our own hemisphere , 20 heads of state , for this historic occasion . I am proud to be here as part of the largest group of heads of state ever assembled in the Hall of the Americas , Secretary General . We are here to participate in the signing of treaties which will assure a peaceful and prosperous and secure future for an international waterway of great importance to us all . But the treaties do more than that . They mark the commitment of the United States to the belief that fairness , and not force , should lie at the heart of our dealings with the nations of the world . If any agreement between two nations is to last , it must serve the best interests of both nations . The new treaties do that . And by guaranteeing the neutrality of the Panama Canal , the treaties also serve the best interests of every nation that uses the canal . This agreement thus forms a new partnership to insure that this vital waterway , so important to all of us , will continue to be well operated , safe , and open to shipping by all nations , now and in the future . Under these accords , Panama will play an increasingly important role in the operation and defense of the canal during the next 23 years . And after that , the United States will still be able to counter any threat to the canal s neutrality and openness for use . The members of the Organization of American States and all the members of the United Nations will have a chance to subscribe to the permanent neutrality of the canal . The accords also give Panama an important economic stake in the continued , safe , and efficient operation of the canal and make Panama a strong and interested party in the future success of the waterway . In the spirit of reciprocity suggested by the leaders at the Bogota . summit , the United States and Panama have agreed that any future sea level canal will be built in Panama and with the cooperation of the United States . In this manner , the best interests of both our nations are linked and preserved into the future . Many of you seated at this table have made known for years through the Organization of American States and through your own personal expressions of concern to my predecessors in the White House , your own strong feelings about the Panama Canal Treaty of 1903 . That treaty , drafted in a world so different from ours today , has become an obstacle to better relations with Latin America . I thank each of you for the support and help that you and your countries have given during the long process of negotiation , which is now drawing to a close . This agreement has been negotiated over a period of 14 years under four Presidents of the United States . I am proud to see President Ford here with us tonight . And I am also glad to see Lyndon Johnson here with us tonight . Many Secretaries of State have been involved in the negotiations . Dean Rusk cannot be here . He has endorsed the treaty . But Secretary of State William Rogers is here . We are glad to have you , sir . And Secretary of State Henry Kissinger is here too . This has been a bipartisan effort , and it is extremely important for our country to stay unified in our commitment to the fairness , the symbol of equality , the mutual respect , the preservation of the security and defense of our own Nation , and an exhibition of cooperation which sets a symbol that is important to us all before this assembly tonight and before the American people in the future . This opens a new chapter in our relations with all nations of this hemisphere , and it testifies to the maturity and the good judgment and the decency of our people . This agreement is a symbol for the world of the mutual respect and cooperation among all our nations . Thank you very much for your help .<speech_sep>Good evening . Tomorrow will be two weeks since I became President . I have spent a lot of time deciding how I can be a good President . This talk , which the broadcast networks have agreed to bring to you , is one of several steps that I will take to keep in close touch with the people of our country , and to let you know informally about our plans for the coming months . When I was running for President , I made a number of commitments . I take them very seriously . I believe that they were the reason that I was elected . And I want you to know that I intend to carry them out . As you probably noticed already , I have acted on several of my promises . I will report to you from time to time about our Government both our problems and our achievements , but tonight I want to tell you how I plan to carry out some of my other commitments . Some of our obvious goals can be achieved very quickly for example , through executive orders and decisions made directly by me . But in many other areas , we must move carefully , with full involvement by the Congress , allowing time for citizens to participate in careful study , in order to develop predictable , long range programs that we can be sure are affordable and that we know will work . Some of these efforts will also require dedication perhaps even some sacrifice from you . But I do not believe that any of us are afraid to learn that our national goals require cooperation and mutual effort . One of our most urgent projects is to develop a national energy policy . As I pointed out during the campaign , the United States is the only major industrial country without a comprehensive , long range energy policy . The extremely cold weather this winter has dangerously depleted our supplies of natural gas and fuel oil and forced hundreds of thousands of workers off the job . I congratulate the Congress for its quick action on the Emergency Natural Gas Act , which was passed today and signed just a few minutes ago . But the real problem our failure to plan for the future or to take energy conservation seriously started long before this winter , and it will take much longer to solve . I realize that many of you have not believed that we really have an energy problem . But this winter has made all of us realize that we have to act . Now , the Congress has already made many of the preparations for energy legislation . Presidential assistant James Schlesinger is beginning to direct an effort to develop a national energy policy . Many groups of Americans will be involved . On April 20 , we will have completed the planning for our energy program and will immediately then ask the Congress for its help in enacting comprehensive legislation . Our program will emphasize conservation . The amount of energy being wasted which could be saved is greater than the total energy that we are importing from foreign countries . We will also stress development of our rich coal reserves in an environmentally sound way we will emphasize research on solar energy and other renewable energy sources and we will maintain strict safeguards on necessary atomic energy production . The responsibility for setting energy policy is now split among more than 50 different agencies , departments , and bureaus in the Federal Government . Later this month , I will ask the Congress for its help in combining many of these agencies in a new energy department to bring order out of chaos . Congressional leaders have already been working on this for quite a while . We must face the fact that the energy shortage is permanent . There is no way we can solve it quickly . But if we all cooperate and make modest sacrifices , if we learn to live thriftily and remember the importance of helping our neighbors , then we can find ways to adjust and to make our society more efficient and our own lives more enjoyable and productive . Utility companies must promote conservation and not consumption . Oil and natural gas companies must be honest with all of us about their reserves and profits . We will find out the difference between real shortages and artificial ones . We will ask private companies to sacrifice , just as private citizens must do . All of us must learn to waste less energy . Simply by keeping our thermostats , for instance , at 65 degrees in the daytime and 55 degrees at night we could save half the current shortage of natural gas . There is no way that or anyone else in the Government , can solve our energy problems if you are not willing to help . I know that we can meet this energy challenge if the burden is borne fairly among all our people and if we realize that in order to solve our energy problems we need not sacrifice the quality of our lives . The Congress has made great progress toward responsible strip mining legislation , so that we can produce more energy without unnecessary destruction of our beautiful lands . My administration will support these efforts this year . We will also ask Congress for its help with legislation which will reduce the risk of future oil tanker spills and help deal with those that do occur . I also stated during my campaign that our administration would do everything possible to restore a healthy American economy . Our Nation was built on the principle of work and not welfare productivity and not stagnation . But I took office a couple of weeks ago in the middle of the worst economic slowdown of the last 40 years . More than 7 1 2 million people who want to work cannot find it according to the latest statistics . Because of high unemployment and idle factories the average American family like yours has been losing 1 , 800 a year in income , and many billions of dollars have been added to the Federal deficit . Also , inflation hurts us all . In every part of the country , whether we have a job or whether we are looking for a job , we must race just to keep up with the constant rise in prices . Inflation has hit us hardest , not in luxuries , but in the essentials food , energy , health , housing . You see it every time you go shopping . I understand that unemployment and inflation are very real , and have done great harm to many American families . Nothing makes it harder to provide decent health , housing , and education for our people , protect our environment , or to realize our goal of a balanced budget , than a stagnant economy . As soon as I was elected , the leaders of the Congress and my own advisers began to work with me to develop a proposal for economic recovery . We were guided by the principle that everyone who is able to work ought to work that our economic strength is based on a healthy , productive , private business sector that we must provide the greatest help to those with the greatest need and that there must be a predictable and a steady growth in our economy . Two days ago , I presented this plan to the Congress . It is a balanced plan , with many clements , to meet the many causes of our economic problems . One element that I am sure you will like is reducing taxes . This year the one time tax benefits to the average family of four with 10 , 000 in income will be 200 a 30 percent reduction in income taxes . But my primary concern is still jobs , and these one time tax rebates are the only quick , effective way to get money into the economy and create those jobs . But at the same time , we are reducing taxes permanently by increasing the standard deduction , which most taxpayers claim . Again , this family of four earning 10 , 000 will save 133 on a permanent basis about 20 percent on future income taxes . This will also be a major step toward tax simplification , allowing 75 percent of all taxpayers to take the standard deduction and to file a very simple tax return , quite different from the one that you will file this year . We will also provide tax incentives to business firms to encourage them to fight inflation by expanding output and to hire more of our people who are eager to work . I think it makes more sense for the Government to help workers stay on the payroll than to force them onto unemployment benefits or welfare payments . We have several proposals , too , in this legislation to help our cities , which have been especially hard hit by nationwide economic problems . Communities where unemployment is worst will be eligible for additional money through the revenue sharing program . A special program of public service employment will enable those who are now unemployed to contribute to their communities in hospitals , nursing homes , park and recreation programs , and other related activities . A strong public works program will permit the construction of selected projects which are needed most . These will not be make work projects . They will be especially valuable in communities where budget cutbacks have reduced municipal services , and they will also help to prevent local tax increases . Now , because unemployment is most severe among special groups of our people the young , the disabled , minority groups we will focus our training programs on them . The top priority in our job training programs will go to young veterans of the Vietnam war . Unemployment is much higher among veterans than among others of the same age who did not serve in the military . I hope that putting many thousands of veterans back to work will be one more step toward binding up the wounds of the war years and toward helping those who have helped our country in the past . I realize that very few people will think that this total economic plan is perfect . Many groups would like to see more of one kind of aid and less of another . But I am confident that this is the best balanced plan that we can produce for the overall economic health of the Nation . It will produce steady , balanced , sustainable growth . It does not ignore inflation to solve unemployment or vice versa . It does not ask one group of people to sacrifice solely for the benefit of another group . It asks all of us to contribute , participate , and share to get the country back on the road to work again . It is an excellent investment in the future . I also said many times during the campaign that we must reform and reorganize the Federal Government . I have often used the phrase competent and compassionate to describe what our Government should be . When the Government must perform a function , it should do it efficiently . Wherever free competition would do a better job of serving the public , the Government should stay out . Ordinary people should be able to understand how our own Government works , and to get satisfactory answers to questions . Our confused and wasteful system that took so long to grow will take a long time to change . The place to start is at the top in the White House . I am reducing the size of the White House staff by nearly one third , and I have asked the members of the Cabinet to do the same at their top staff level . Soon , I will put a ceiling on the number of people employed by the Federal Government agencies so we can bring the growth of Government under control . We are now reviewing the Government s 1 , 250 advisory committees and commissions to see how many could be abolished without harm to the public . We have eliminated some expensive and unnecessary luxuries , such as door to door limousine service for many top officials , including all members of the White House staff . Government officials cannot be sensitive to your problems if we are living like royalty here in Washington . While I am deeply grateful for the good wishes that lie behind them , I would like to ask that people not send gifts to me or to my family or to anyone else who serves in my administration . We will cut down also on Government regulations , and we will make sure that those that are written are in plain English for a change . Whenever a regulation is issued , it will carry its author s name . And I will request the Cabinet members to read all regulations personally before they are released . This week , I will ask the Congress for enabling legislation to let me reorganize the Government . The passage of this legislation , which will give me the same authority extended to every President from Franklin Roosevelt through Richard Nixon , and used by many Governors across the country , is absolutely crucial to a successful reorganization effort . So far , news from the Congress , because of their support , is very encouraging . The Office of Management and Budget is now working on this plan , which will include zero based budgeting , removal of unnecessary Government regulations , sunset laws to cancel programs that have outlived their purpose , and elimination of overlap and duplication among Government services . We will not propose changes until we have done our best to be sure they are right . But we will be eager to learn from experience . If a program does not work , we will end it instead of just starting another to conceal our first mistakes . We will also move quickly to reform our tax system and welfare system . I said in the campaign that our income tax system was a disgrace because it is so arbitrary , complicated , and unfair . I made a commitment to a total overhaul of the income tax laws . The economic program that I have already mentioned earlier will , by enabling more taxpayers to use the standard deduction , be just a first step toward a much better tax system . My advisers have already started working with the Congress on a study of a more complete tax reform which will give us a fairer , simpler system . We will outline the study procedures very soon and , after consultation with many American citizens and with the Congress , we will present a comprehensive tax reform package before the end of this year . The welfare system also needs a complete overhaul . Welfare waste robs both the taxpayers of our country and those who really and genuinely need help . It often forces families to split . It discourages people from seeking work . The Secretary of Labor and the Secretary of Health , Education , and Welfare , and others have already begun a review of the entire welfare system . They will , of course , work with the Congress to develop proposals for a new system which will minimize abuse , strengthen the family , and emphasize adequate support for those who cannot work and training and jobs for those who can work . We expect their first report to be ready within 90 days . In the meantime , I will support the Congress in its efforts to deal with the widespread fraud and waste and abuse of our Medicaid system . Reforming the Government also means making the Government as open and honest as it can be . Congress is moving strongly on ethics legislation . I have asked the people appointed by me to high positions in Government to abide by strict rules of financial disclosure and to avoid all conflicts of interest . I intend to make those rules permanent . And I will select my appointees in such a way which will close the revolving door between Government regulatory agencies on the one hand and the businesses they regulate on the other . My Cabinet members and I will conduct an open administration , with frequent press conferences and reports to the people and with Town Hall meetings all across the Nation , where you can criticize , make suggestions , and ask questions . We are also planning with some of the radio networks live , call in sessions in the Oval Office during which I can accept your phone calls and answer the questions that are on your mind . I have asked the members of the Cabinet to travel regularly around the country to stay in close touch with you out in your communities where Government services are delivered . There are many other areas of domestic policy housing , health , crime , education , agriculture , and others that will concern me as President but which I do not have time to discuss tonight . All of these projects will take careful study and close cooperation with the Congress . Many will take longer than I would like . But we are determined to work on all of them . Later , through other reports , I will explain how , with your help and the help of Congress , we can carry them out . I have also made commitments about our Nation s foreign policy . As Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces , I am determined to have a strong , lean , efficient fighting force . Our policy should be based on close cooperation with our allies and worldwide respect for human rights , a reduction in world armaments , and it must always reflect our own moral values . I want our Nation s actions to make you proud . Yesterday , Vice President Mondale returned from his 10 day visit with leaders of Western Europe and Japan . I asked him to make this trip to demonstrate our intention to consult our traditional allies and friends on all important questions . I have been very pleased with his report . Vice President Mondale will be a constant and close adviser for me . In a spirit of international friendship we will soon welcome here in the United States the leaders of several nations , beginning with our neighbors , Canada and Mexico . This month the Secretary of State , Cyrus Vance , will go to the Middle East , seeking ways to achieve a genuine peace between Israel and its Arab neighbors . Our Ambassador to the United Nations , Andrew Young , left last night on a visit to Africa to demonstrate our friendship for its peoples and our commitment to peaceful change toward majority rule in southern Africa . I will also strive to improve our relations with the Soviet Union and the People s Republic of China , ensuring our security while seeking to reduce the risks of conflict . We will continue to express our concern about violations of human rights , as we have during this past week , without upsetting our efforts toward friendly relationships with other countries . Later , on another program , I will make a much more complete report to you on foreign policy matters . I would like to tell you now about one of the things that I have already learned in my brief time in office . I have learned that there are many things that a President cannot do . There is no energy policy that we can develop that would do more good than voluntary conservation . There is no economic policy that will do as much as shared faith in hard work , efficiency , and in the future of our system . I know that both the Congress and the administration , as partners in leadership , have limited powers . That is the way it ought to be . But in the months in which I have campaigned , prepared to take office , and now begun to serve as your President , I have found a reason for optimism . With the help of my predecessor , we have come through a very difficult period in our Nation s history . But for almost 10 years , we have not had a sense of a common national interest . We have lost faith in joint efforts and mutual sacrifices . Because of the divisions in our country many of us cannot remember a time when we really felt united . But I remember another difficult time in our Nation s history when we felt a different spirit . During World War II we faced a terrible crisis but the challenge of fighting Nazism drew us together . Those of us old enough to remember know that they were dark and frightening times but many of our memories are of people ready to help each other for the common good . I believe that we are ready for that same spirit again to plan ahead , to work together , and to use common sense . Not because of war , but because we realize that we must act together to solve our problems , and because we are ready to trust one another . As President , I will not be able to provide everything that every one of you might like . I am sure to make many mistakes . But I can promise that your needs will never be ignored , nor will we forget who put us in office . We will always be a nation of differences business and labor , blacks and whites , men and women , people of different regions and religions and different ethnic backgrounds but with faith and confidence in each other our differences can be a source of personal fullness and national strength , rather than a cause of weakness and division . If we are a united nation , then I can be a good President . But I will need your help to do it . I will do my best . I know you will do yours . Thank you very much , and good night .<speech_sep>President , Speaker , members of the 95th Congress , ladies and gentlemen Two years ago today we had the first caucus in Iowa , and one year ago tomorrow , I walked from here to the White House to take up the duties of President of the United States . I did not know it then when I walked , but I have been trying to save energy ever since . I return tonight to fulfill one of those duties of the Constitution to give to the Congress and to the Nation information on the state of the Union . Militarily , politically , economically , and in spirit , the state of our Union is sound . We are a great country , a strong country , a vital and a dynamic country and so we will remain . We are a confident people and a hardworking people , a decent and a compassionate people and so we will remain . I want to speak to you tonight about where we are and where we must go , about what we have done and what we must do . And I want to pledge to you my best efforts and ask you to pledge yours . Each generation of Americans has to face circumstances not of its own choosing , but by which its character is measured and its spirit is tested . There are times of emergency , when a nation and its leaders must bring their energies to bear on a single urgent task . That was the duty Abraham Lincoln faced when our land was torn apart by conflict in the War Between the States . That was the duty faced by Franklin Roosevelt when he led America out of an economic depression and again when he led America to victory in war . There are other times when there is no single overwhelming crisis , yet profound national interests are at stake . At such times the risk of inaction can be equally great . It becomes the task of leaders to call forth the vast and restless energies of our people to build for the future . That is what Harry Truman did in the years after the Second World War , when we helped Europe and Japan rebuild themselves and secured an international order that has protected freedom from aggression . We live in such times now , and we face such duties . We have come through a long period of turmoil and doubt , but we have once again found our moral course , and with a new spirit , we are striving to express our best instincts to the rest of the world . There is all across our land a growing sense of peace and a sense of common purpose . This sense of unity cannot be expressed in programs or in legislation or in dollars . It is an achievement that belongs to every individual American . This unity ties together , and it towers over all our efforts here in Washington , and it serves as an inspiring beacon for all of us who are elected to serve . This new atmosphere demands a new spirit , a partnership between those of us who lead and those who elect . The foundations of this partnership are truth , the courage to face hard decisions , concern for one another and the common good over special interests , and a basic faith and trust in the wisdom and strength and judgment of the American people . For the first time in a generation , we are not haunted by a major international crisis or by domestic turmoil , and we now have a rare and a priceless opportunity to address persistent problems and burdens which come to us as a nation quietly and steadily getting worse over the years . As President , I have had to ask you , the members of Congress , and you , the American people , to come to grips with some of the most difficult and hard questions facing our society . We must make a maximum effort , because if we do not aim for the best , we are very likely to achieve little . I see no benefit to the country if we delay , because the problems will only get worse . We need patience and good will , but we really need to realize that there is a limit to the role and the function of government . Government cannot solve our problems , it cannot set our goals , it cannot define our vision . Government cannot eliminate poverty or provide a bountiful economy or reduce inflation or save our cities or cure illiteracy or provide energy . And government cannot mandate goodness . Only a true partnership between government and the people can ever hope to reach these goals . Those of us who govern can sometimes inspire , and we can identify needs and marshal resources , but we simply cannot be the managers of everything and everybody . We here in Washington must move away from crisis management , and we must establish clear goals for the future immediate and the distant future which will let us work together and not in conflict . Never again should we neglect a growing crisis like the shortage of energy , where further delay will only lead to more harsh and painful solutions . Every day we spend more than 120 million for foreign oil . This slows our economic growth , it lowers the value of the dollar overseas , and it aggravates unemployment and inflation here at home . Now we know what we must do increase production . We must cut down on waste . And we must use more of those fuels which are plentiful and more permanent . We must be fair to people , and we must not disrupt our nation s economy and our budget . Now , that sounds simple . But I recognize the difficulties involved . I know that it is not easy for the Congress to act . But the fact remains that on the energy legislation , we have failed the American people . Almost five years after the oil embargo dramatized the problem for us all , we still do not have a national energy program . Not much longer can we tolerate this stalemate . It undermines our national interest both at home and abroad . We must succeed , and I believe we will . Our main task at home this year , with energy a central element , is the nation s economy . We must continue the recovery and further cut unemployment and inflation . Last year was a good one for the United States . We reached all of our major economic goals for 1977 . Four million new jobs were created an all time record and the number of unemployed dropped by more than a million . Unemployment right now is the lowest it has been since 1974 , and not since World War II has such a high percentage of American people been employed . The rate of inflation went down . There was a good growth in business profits and investments , the source of more jobs for our workers , and a higher standard of living for all our people . After taxes and inflation , there was a healthy increase in workers wages . And this year , our country will have the first 2 trillion economy in the history of the world . Now , we are proud of this progress the first year , but we must do even better in the future . We still have serious problems on which all of us must work together . Our trade deficit is too large . Inflation is still too high , and too many Americans still do not have a job . Now , I did not have any simple answers for all these problems . But we have developed an economic policy that is working , because it is simple , balanced , and fair . It is based on four principles First , the economy must keep on expanding to produce new jobs and better income , which our people need . The fruits of growth must be widely shared . More jobs must be made available to those who have been bypassed until now . And the tax system must be made fairer and simpler . Secondly , private business and not the government must lead the expansion in the future . Third , we must lower the rate of inflation and keep it down . Inflation slows down economic growth , and it is the most cruel to the poor and also to the elderly and others who live on fixed incomes . And fourth , we must contribute to the strength of the world economy . I will announce detailed proposals for improving our tax system later this week . We can make our tax laws fairer , we can make them simpler and easier to understand , and at the same time , we can and we will reduce the tax burden on American citizens by 25 billion . The tax reforms and the tax reductions go together . Only with the long overdue reforms will the full tax cut be advisable . Almost 17 billion in income tax cuts will go to individuals . Ninety six percent of all American taxpayers will see their taxes go down . For a typical family of four , this means an annual saving of more than 250 a year , or a tax reduction of about 20 percent . A further 2 billion cut in excise taxes will give more relief and also contribute directly to lowering the rate of inflation . And we will also provide strong additional incentives for business investment and growth through substantial cuts in the corporate tax rates and improvement in the investment tax credit . Now , these tax proposals will increase opportunity everywhere in the nation . But additional jobs for the disadvantaged deserve special attention . We have already passed laws to assure equal access to the voting booth and to restaurants and to schools , to housing , and laws to permit access to jobs . But job opportunity the chance to earn a decent living is also a basic human right , which we cannot and will not ignore . A major priority for our nation is the final elimination of the barriers that restrict the opportunities available to women and also to black people and Hispanics and other minorities . We have come a long way toward that goal . But there is still much to do . What we inherited from the past must not be permitted to shackle us in the future . I will be asking you for a substantial increase in funds for public jobs for our young people , and I also am recommending that the Congress continue the public service employment programs at more than twice the level of a year ago . When welfare reform is completed , we will have more than a million additional jobs so that those on welfare who are able to work can work . However , again , we know that in our free society , private business is still the best source of new jobs . Therefore , I will propose a new program to encourage businesses to hire young and disadvantaged Americans . These young people only need skills and a chance in order to take their place in our economic system . Let us give them the chance they need . A major step in the right direction would be the early passage of a greatly improved Humphrey Hawkins bill . My budget for 1979 addresses these national needs , but it is lean and tight . I have cut waste wherever possible . I am proposing an increase of less than 2 percent after adjusting for inflation the smallest increase in the federal budget in four years . Lately , federal spending has taken a steadily increasing portion of what Americans produce . Our new budget reverses that trend , and later I hope to bring the government s toll down even further . And with your help , we will do that . In time of high employment and a strong economy , deficit spending should not be a feature of our budget . As the economy continues to gain strength and as our unemployment rates continue to fall , revenues will grow . With careful planning , efficient management , and proper restraint on spending , we can move rapidly toward a balanced budget and we will . Next year the budget deficit will be only slightly less than this year . But one third of the deficit is due to the necessary tax cuts that I have proposed . This year the right choice is to reduce the burden on taxpayers and provide more jobs for our people . The third element in our program is a renewed attack on inflation . We have learned the hard way that high unemployment will not prevent or cure inflation . Government can help us by stimulating private investment and by maintaining a responsible economic policy . Through a new top level review process , we will do a better job of reducing government regulation that drives up costs and drives up prices . But again , government alone cannot bring down the rate of inflation . When a level of high inflation is expected to continue , then companies raise prices to protect their profit margins against prospective increases in wages and other costs , while workers demand higher wages as protection against expected price increases . It is like an escalation in the arms race , and understandably , no one wants to disarm alone . Now , no one firm or a group of workers can halt this process . It is an effort that we must all make together . I am therefore asking government , business , labor , and other groups to join in a voluntary program to moderate inflation by holding wage and price increases in each sector of the economy during 1978 below the average increases of the last two years . I do not believe in wage and price controls . A sincere commitment to voluntary constraint provides a way perhaps the only way to fight inflation without government interference . As I came into the Capitol tonight , I saw the farmers , my fellow farmers , standing out in the snow . I am familiar with their problem , and I know from Congress action that you are too . When I was running Carters Warehouse , we had spread on our own farms 5 10 15 fertilizer for about 40 a ton . The last time I was home , the price was about 100 a ton . The cost of nitrogen has gone up 150 percent , and the price of products that farmers sell has either stayed the same or gone down a little . Now , this past year in 1977 , you , the Congress , and I together passed a new agricultural act . It went into effect October 1 . It will have its first impact on the 1978 crops . It will help a great deal . It will add 6 . 5 billion or more to help the farmers with their price supports and target prices . Last year we had the highest level of exports of farm products in the history of our country 24 billion . We expect to have more this year . We will be working together . But I think it is incumbent on us to monitor very carefully the farm situation and continue to work harmoniously with the farmers of our country . What is best for the farmers , the farm families , in the long run is also best for the consumers of our country . Economic success at home is also the key to success in our international economic policy . An effective energy program , strong investment and productivity , and controlled inflation will provide our trade balance and balance it , and it will help to protect the integrity of the dollar overseas . By working closely with our friends abroad , we can promote the economic health of the whole world , with fair and balanced agreements lowering the barriers to trade . Despite the inevitable pressures that build up when the world economy suffers from high unemployment , we must firmly resist the demands for self defeating protectionism . But free trade must also be fair trade . And I am determined to protect American industry and American workers against foreign trade practices which are unfair or illegal . In a separate written message to Congress , I have outlined other domestic initiatives , such as welfare reform , consumer protection , basic education skills , urban policy , reform of our labor laws , and national health care later on this year . I will not repeat these tonight . But there are several other points that I would like to make directly to you . During these past years , Americans have seen our government grow far from us . For some citizens , the government has almost become like a foreign country , so strange and distant that we have often had to deal with it through trained ambassadors who have sometimes become too powerful and too influential lawyers , accountants , and lobbyists . This cannot go on . We must have what Abraham Lincoln wanted a government for the people . We have made progress toward that kind of government . You have given me the authority I requested to reorganize the federal bureaucracy . And I am using that authority . We have already begun a series of reorganization plans which will be completed over a period of three years . We have also proposed abolishing almost 500 federal advisory and other commissions and boards . But I know that the American people are still sick and tired of federal paperwork and redtape . Bit by bit we are chopping down the thicket of unnecessary federal regulations by which government too often interferes in our personal lives and our personal business . We have cut the public s federal paperwork load by more than 12 percent in less than a year . And we are not through cutting . We have made a good start on turning the gobbledygook of federal regulations into plain English that people can understand . But we know that we still have a long way to go . We have brought together parts of 11 government agencies to create a new Department of Energy . And now it is time to take another major step by creating a separate Department of Education . But even the best organized government will only be as effective as the people who carry out its policies . For this reason , I consider civil service reform to be absolutely vital . Worked out with the civil servants themselves , this reorganization plan will restore the merit principle to a system which has grown into a bureaucratic maze . It will provide greater management flexibility and better rewards for better performance without compromising job security . Then and only then can we have a government that is efficient , open , and truly worthy of our people s understanding and respect . I have promised that we will have such a government , and I intend to keep that promise . In our foreign policy , the separation of people from government has been in the past a source of weakness and error . In a democratic system like ours , foreign policy decisions must be able to stand the test of public examination and public debate . If we make a mistake in this administration , it will be on the side of frankness and openness with the American people . In our modern world , when the deaths of literally millions of people can result from a few terrifying seconds of destruction , the path of national strength and security is identical to the path of peace . Tonight , I am happy to report that because we are strong , our nation is at peace with the world . We are a confident nation . We have restored a moral basis for our foreign policy . The very heart of our identity as a nation is our firm commitment to human rights . We stand for human rights because we believe that government has as a purpose to promote the well being of its citizens . This is true in our domestic policy it is also true in our foreign policy . The world must know that in support of human rights , the United States will stand firm . We expect no quick or easy results , but there has been significant movement toward greater freedom and humanity in several parts of the world . Thousands of political prisoners have been freed . The leaders of the world even our ideological adversaries now see that their attitude toward fundamental human rights affects their standing in the international community , and it affects their relations with the United States . To serve the interests of every American , our foreign policy has three major goals . The first and prime concern is and will remain the security of our country . Security is based on our national will , and security is based on the strength of our armed forces . We have the will , and militarily we are very strong . Security also comes through the strength of our alliances . We have reconfirmed our commitment to the defense of Europe , and this year we will demonstrate that commitment by further modernizing and strengthening our military capabilities there . Security can also be enhanced by agreements with potential adversaries which reduce the threat of nuclear disaster while maintaining our own relative strategic capability . In areas of peaceful competition with the Soviet Union , we will continue to more than hold our own . At the same time , we are negotiating with quiet confidence , without haste , with careful determination , to ease the tensions between us and to ensure greater stability and security . The strategic arms limitation talks have been long and difficult . We want a mutual limit on both the quality and the quantity of the giant nuclear arsenals of both nations , and then we want actual reductions in strategic arms as a major step toward the ultimate elimination of nuclear weapons from the face of the Earth . If these talks result in an agreement this year and I trust they will I pledge to you that the agreement will maintain and enhance the stability of the world s strategic balance and the security of the United States . For 30 years , concerted but unsuccessful efforts have been made to ban the testing of atomic explosives both military weapons and peaceful nuclear devices . We are hard at work with Great Britain and the Soviet Union on an agreement which will stop testing and will protect our national security and provide for adequate verification of compliance . We are now making , I believe , good progress toward this comprehensive ban on nuclear explosions . We are also working vigorously to halt the proliferation of nuclear weapons among the nations of the world which do not now have them and to reduce the deadly global traffic in conventional arms sales . Our stand for peace is suspect if we are also the principal arms merchant of the world . so , we have decided to cut down our arms transfers abroad on a year by year basis and to work with other major arms exporters to encourage their similar constraint . Every American has a stake in our second major goal a world at peace . In a nuclear age , each of us is threatened when peace is not secured everywhere . We are trying to promote harmony in those parts of the world where major differences exist among other nations and threaten international peace . In the Middle East , we are contributing our good offices to maintain the momentum of the current negotiations and to keep open the lines of communication among the Middle Eastern leaders . The whole world has a great stake in the success of these efforts . This is a precious opportunity for a historic settlement of a longstanding conflict an opportunity which may never come again in our lifetime . Our role has been difficult and sometimes thankless and controversial . But it has been constructive and it has been necessary , and it will continue . Our third major foreign policy goal is one that touches the life of every American citizen every day world economic growth and stability . This requires strong economic performance by the industrialized democracies like ourselves and progress in resolving the global energy crisis . Last fall , with the help of others , we succeeded in our vigorous efforts to maintain the stability of the price of oil . But as many foreign leaders have emphasized to me personally and , I am sure , to you , the greatest future contribution that America can make to the world economy would be an effective energy conservation program here at home . We will not hesitate to take the actions needed to protect the integrity of the American dollar . We are trying to develop a more just international system . And in this spirit , we are supporting the struggle for human development in Africa , in Asia , and in Latin America . Finally , the world is watching to see how we act on one of our most important and controversial items of business approval of the Panama Canal treaties . The treaties now before the Senate are the result of the work of four administrations two Democratic , two Republican . They guarantee that the canal will be open always for unrestricted use by the ships of the world . Our ships have the right to go to the head of the line for priority of passage in times of emergency or need . We retain the permanent right to defend the canal with our own military forces , if necessary , to guarantee its openness and its neutrality . The treaties are to the clear advantage of ourselves , the Panamanians , and the other users of the canal . Ratifying the Panama Canal treaties will demonstrate our good faith to the world , discourage the spread of hostile ideologies in this hemisphere , and directly contribute to the economic well being and the security of the United States . I have to say that that is very welcome applause . There were two moments on my recent journey which , for me , confirmed the final aims of our foreign policy and what it always must be . One was in a little village in India , where I met a people as passionately attached to their rights and liberties as we are , but whose children have a far smaller chance for good health or food or education or human fulfillment than a child born in this country . The other moment was in Warsaw , capital of a nation twice devastated by war in this century . There , people have rebuilt the city which war s destruction took from them . But what was new only emphasized clearly what was lost . What I saw in those two places crystalized for me the purposes of our own Nation s policy to ensure economic justice , to advance human rights , to resolve conflicts without violence , and to proclaim in our great democracy our constant faith in the liberty and dignity of human beings everywhere . We Americans have a great deal of work to do together . In the end , how well we do that work will depend on the spirit in which we approach it . We must seek fresh answers , unhindered by the stale prescriptions of the past . It has been said that our best years are behind us . But I say again that America s best is still ahead . We have emerged from bitter experiences chastened but proud , confident once again , ready to face challenges once again , and united once again . We come together tonight at a solemn time . Last week the Senate lost a good and honest man Lee Metcalf of Montana . And today , the flag of the United States flew at half mast from this Capitol and from American installations and ships all over the world , in mourning for Senator Hubert Humphrey . Because he exemplified so well the joy and the zest of living , his death reminds us not so much of our own mortality , but of the possibilities offered to us by life . He always looked to the future with a special American kind of confidence , of hope and enthusiasm . And the best way that we can honor him is by following his example . Our task to use the words of Senator Humphrey is reconciliation , rebuilding , and rebirth . Reconciliation of private needs and interests into a higher purpose . Rebuilding the old dreams of justice and liberty , and country and community . Rebirth of our faith in the common good . Each of us here tonight and all who are listening in your homes must rededicate ourselves to serving the common good . We are a community , a beloved community , all of us . Our individual fates are linked , our futures intertwined . And if we act in that knowledge and in that spirit , together , as the Bible says , we can move mountains . Thank you very much .<speech_sep>Late yesterday , I cancelled a carefully planned operation which was underway in Iran to position our rescue team for later withdrawal of American hostages , who have been held captive there since November 4 . Equipment failure in the rescue helicopters made it necessary to end the mission . As our team was withdrawing , after my order to do so , two of our American aircraft collided on the ground following a refueling operation in a remote desert location in Iran . Other information about this rescue mission will be made available to the American people when it is appropriate to do so . There was no fighting there was no combat . But to my deep regret , eight of the crewmen of the two aircraft which collided were killed , and several other Americans were hurt in the accident . Our people were immediately airlifted from Iran . Those who were injured have gotten medical treatment , and all of them are expected to recover . No knowledge of this operation by any Iranian officials or authorities was evident to us until several hours after all Americans were withdrawn from Iran . Our rescue team knew and I knew that the operation was certain to be difficult and it was certain to be dangerous . We were all convinced that if and when the rescue operation had been commenced that it had an excellent chance of success . They were all volunteers they were all highly trained . I met with their leaders before they went on this operation . They knew then what hopes of mine and of all Americans they carried with them . To the families of those who died and who were wounded , I want to express the admiration I feel for the courage of their loved ones and the sorrow that I feel personally for their sacrifice . The mission on which they were embarked was a humanitarian mission . It was not directed against Iran it was not directed against the people of Iran . It was not undertaken with any feeling of hostility toward Iran or its people . It has caused no Iranian casualties . Planning for this rescue effort began shortly after our Embassy was seized , but for a number of reasons , I waited until now to put those rescue plans into effect . To be feasible , this complex operation had to be the product of intensive planning and intensive training and repeated rehearsal . However , a resolution of this crisis through negotiations and with voluntary action on the part of the Iranian officials was obviously then , has been , and will be preferable . This rescue attempt had to await my judgment that the Iranian authorities could not or would not resolve this crisis on their own initiative . With the steady unraveling of authority in Iran and the mounting dangers that were posed to the safety of the hostages themselves and the growing realization that their early release was highly unlikely , I made a decision to commence the rescue operations plans . This attempt became a necessity and a duty . The readiness of our team to undertake the rescue made it completely practicable . Accordingly , I made the decision to set our long developed plans into operation . I ordered this rescue mission prepared in order to safeguard American lives , to protect America s national interests , and to reduce the tensions in the world that have been caused among many nations as this crisis has continued . It was my decision to attempt the rescue operation . It was my decision to cancel it when problems developed in the placement of our rescue team for a future rescue operation . The responsibility is fully my own . In the aftermath of the attempt , we continue to hold the Government of Iran responsible for the safety and for the early release of the American hostages , who have been held so long . The United States remains determined to bring about their safe release at the earliest date possible . As President , I know that our entire Nation feels the deep gratitude I feel for the brave men who were prepared to rescue their fellow Americans from captivity . And as President , I also know that the Nation shares not only my disappointment that the rescue effort could not be mounted , because of mechanical difficulties , but also my determination to persevere and to bring all of our hostages home to freedom . We have been disappointed before . We will not give up in our efforts . Throughout this extraordinarily difficult period , we have pursued and will continue to pursue every possible avenue to secure the release of the hostages . In these efforts , the support of the American people and of our friends throughout the world has been a most crucial element . That support of other nations is even more important now . We will seek to continue , along with other nations and with the officials of Iran , a prompt resolution of the crisis without any loss of life and through peaceful and diplomatic means . Thank you very much .<speech_sep>Good evening . In a few days I will lay down my official responsibilities in this office , to take up once more the only title in our democracy superior to that of President , the title of citizen . Of Vice President Mondale , my Cabinet , and the hundreds of others who have served with me during the last 4 years , I wish to say now publicly what I have said in private I thank them for the dedication and competence they have brought to the service of our country . But I owe my deepest thanks to you , to the American people , because you gave me this extraordinary opportunity to serve . We have faced great challenges together , and we know that future problems will also be difficult . But I am now more convinced than ever that the United States , better than any other country , can meet successfully whatever the future might bring . These last 4 years have made me more certain than ever of the inner strength of our country , the unchanging value of our principles and ideals , the stability of our political system , the ingenuity and the decency of our people . Tonight I would like first to say a few words about this most special office , the Presidency of the United States . This is at once the most powerful office in the world and among the most severely constrained by law and custom . The President is given a broad responsibility to lead but cannot do so without the support and consent of the people , expressed formally through the Congress and informally in many ways through a whole range of public and private institutions . This is as it should be . Within our system of government every American has a right and a duty to help shape the future course of the United States . Thoughtful criticism and close scrutiny of all government officials by the press and the public are an important part of our democratic society . Now , as in the past , only the understanding and involvement of the people through full and open debate can help to avoid serious mistakes and assure the continued dignity and safety of the Nation . Today we are asking our political system to do things of which the Founding Fathers never dreamed . The government they designed for a few hundred thousand people now serves a nation of almost 230 million people . Their small coastal republic now spans beyond a continent , and we also now have the responsibility to help lead much of the world through difficult times to a secure and prosperous future . Today , as people have become ever more doubtful of the ability of the Government to deal with our problems , we are increasingly drawn to single issue groups and special interest organizations to ensure that whatever else happens , our own personal views and our own private interests are protected . This is a disturbing factor in American political life . It tends to distort our purposes , because the national interest is not always the sum of all our single or special interests . We are all Americans together , and we must not forget that the common good is our common interest and our individual responsibility . Because of the fragmented pressures of these special interests , it is very important that the office of the President be a strong one and that its constitutional authority be preserved . The President is the only elected official charged with the primary responsibility of representing all the people . In the moments of decision , after the different and conflicting views have all been aired , it is the President who then must speak to the Nation and for the Nation . I understand after 4 years in this office , as few others can , how formidable is the task the new President elect is about to undertake , and to the very limits of conscience and conviction , I pledge to support him in that task . I wish him success , and Godspeed . I know from experience that Presidents have to face major issues that are controversial , broad in scope , and which do not arouse the natural support of a political majority . For a few minutes now , I want to lay aside my role as leader of one nation , and speak to you as a fellow citizen of the world about three issues , three difficult issues the threat of nuclear destruction , our stewardship of the physical resources of our planet , and the preeminence of the basic rights of human beings . It is now been 35 years since the first atomic bomb fell on Hiroshima . The great majority of the world s people cannot remember a time when the . nuclear shadow did not hang over the Earth . Our minds have adjusted to it , as after a time our eyes adjust to the dark . Yet the risk of a nuclear conflagration has not lessened . It has not happened yet , thank God , but that can give us little comfort , for it only has to happen once . The danger is becoming greater . As the arsenals of the superpowers grow in size and sophistication and as other governments , perhaps even in the future dozens of governments , acquire these weapons , it may only be a matter of time before madness , desperation , greed , or miscalculation lets loose this terrible force . In an all out nuclear war , more destructive power than in all of World War II would be unleashed every second during the long afternoon it would take for all the missiles and bombs to fall . A World War II every second more people killed in the first few hours than in all the wars of history put together . The survivors , if any , would live in despair amid the poisoned ruins of a civilization that had committed suicide . National weakness , real or perceived , can tempt aggression and thus cause war . That is why the United States can never neglect its military strength . We must and we will remain strong . But with equal determination , the United States and all countries must find ways to control and to reduce the horrifying danger that is posed by the enormous world stockpiles of nuclear arms . This has been a concern of every American President since the moment we first saw what these weapons could do . Our leaders will require our understanding and our support as they grapple with this difficult but crucial challenge . There is no disagreement on the goals or the basic approach to controlling this enormous destructive force . The answer lies not just in the attitudes or the actions of world leaders but in the concern and the demands of all of us as we continue our struggle to preserve the peace . Nuclear weapons are an expression of one side of our human character . But there is another side . The same rocket technology that delivers nuclear warheads has also taken us peacefully into space . From that perspective , we see our Earth as it really is a small and fragile and beautiful blue globe , the only home we have . We see no barriers of race or religion or country . We see the essential unity of our species and our planet . And with faith and common sense , that bright vision will ultimately prevail . Another major challenge , therefore , is to protect the quality of this world within which we live . The shadows that fall across the future are cast not only by the kinds of weapons we have built , but by the kind of world we will either nourish or neglect . There are real and growing dangers to our simple and our most precious possessions the air we breathe , the water we drink , and the land which sustains us . The rapid depletion of irreplaceable minerals , the erosion of topsoil , the destruction of beauty , the blight of pollution , the demands of increasing billions of people , all combine to create problems which are easy to observe and predict , but difficult to resolve . If we do not act , the world of the year 2000 will be much less able to sustain life than it is now . But there is no reason for despair . Acknowledging the physical realities of our planet does not mean a dismal future of endless sacrifice . In fact , acknowledging these realities is the first step in dealing with them . We can meet the resource problems of the world water , food , minerals , farmlands , forests , overpopulation , pollution if we tackle them with courage and foresight . I have just been talking about forces of potential destruction that mankind has developed and how we might control them . It is equally important that we remember the beneficial forces that we have evolved over the ages and how to hold fast to them . One of those constructive forces is the enhancement of individual human freedoms through the strengthening of democracy and the fight against deprivation , torture , terrorism , and the persecution of people throughout the world . The struggle for human rights overrides all differences of color or nation or language . Those who hunger for freedom , who thirst for human dignity , and who suffer for the sake of justice , they are the patriots of this cause . I believe with all my heart that America must always stand for these basic human rights at home and abroad . That is both our history and our destiny . America did not invent human rights . In a very real sense , it is the other way around . Human rights invented America . Ours was the first nation in the history of the world to be founded explicitly on such an idea . Our social and political progress has been based on one fundamental principle the value and importance of the individual . The fundamental force that unites us is not kinship or place of origin or religious preference . The love of liberty is the common blood that flows in our American veins . The battle for human rights , at home and abroad , is far from over . We should never be surprised nor discouraged , because the impact of our efforts has had and will always have varied results . Rather , we should take pride that the ideals which gave birth to our Nation still inspire the hopes of oppressed people around the world . We have no cause for self righteousness or complacency , but we have every reason to persevere , both within our own country and beyond our borders . If we are to serve as a beacon for human rights , we must continue to perfect here at home the rights and the values which we espouse around the world a decent education for our children , adequate medical care for all Americans , an end to discrimination against minorities and women , a job for all those able to work , and freedom from injustice and religious intolerance . We live in a time of transition , an uneasy era which is likely to endure for the rest of this century . It will be a period of tensions , both within nations and between nations , of competition for scarce resources , of social , political , and economic stresses and strains . During this period we may be tempted to abandon some of the time honored principles and commitments which have been proven during the difficult times of past generations . We must never yield to this temptation . Our American values are not luxuries , but necessities not the salt in our bread , but the bread itself . Our common vision of a free and just society is our greatest source of cohesion at home and strength abroad , greater even than the bounty of our material blessings . Remember these words We hold these truths to be self evident , that all men are created equal , that they are endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable Rights , that among these are Life , Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness . This vision still grips the imagination of the world . But we know that democracy is always an unfinished creation . Each generation must renew its foundations . Each generation must rediscover the meaning of this hallowed vision in the light of its own modern challenges . For this generation , ours , life is nuclear survival liberty is human rights the pursuit of happiness is a planet whose resources are devoted to the physical and spiritual nourishment of its inhabitants . During the next few days I will work hard to make sure that the transition from myself to the next President is a good one , that the American people are served well . And I will continue , as I have the last 14 months , to work hard and to pray for the lives and the well being of the American hostages held in Iran . I cannot predict yet what will happen , but I hope you will join me in my constant prayer for their freedom . As I return home to the South , where I was born and raised , I look forward to the opportunity to reflect and further to assess , I hope with accuracy , the circumstances of our times . I intend to give our new President my support , and I intend to work as a citizen , as I have worked here in this office as President , for the values this Nation was founded to secure . Again , from the bottom of my heart , I want to express to you the gratitude I feel . Thank you , fellow citizens , and farewell .<speech_sep>