Vice President , Chief Justice , fellow citizens I accept with humility the honor which the American people have conferred upon me . I accept it with a resolve to do all that I can for the welfare of this Nation and for the peace of the world . In performing the duties of my office , I need the help and the prayers of every one of you . I ask for your encouragement and for your support . The tasks we face are difficult . We can accomplish them only if we work together . Each period of our national history has had its special challenges . Those that confront us now are as momentous as any in the past . Today marks the beginning not only of a new administration , but of a period that will be eventful , perhaps decisive , for us and for the world . It may be our lot to experience , and in a large measure bring about , a major turning point in the long history of the human race . The first half of this century has been marked by unprecedented and brutal attacks on the rights of man , and by the two most frightful wars in history . The supreme need of our time is for men to learn to live together in peace and harmony . The peoples of the earth face the future with grave uncertainty , composed almost equally of great hopes and great fears . In this time of doubt , they look to the United States as never before for good will , strength , and wise leadership . It is fitting , therefore , that we take this occasion to proclaim to the world the essential principles of the faith by which we live , and to declare our aims to all peoples . The American people stand firm in the faith which has inspired this Nation from the beginning . We believe that all men have a right to equal justice under law and equal opportunity to share in the common good . We believe that all men have a right to freedom of thought and expression . We believe that all men are created equal because they are created in the image of God . From this faith we will not be moved . The American people desire , and are determined to work for , a world in which all nations and all peoples are free to govern themselves as they see fit , and to achieve a decent and satisfying life . Above all else , our people desire , and are determined to work for , peace on earth a just and lasting peace based on genuine agreement freely arrived at by equals . In the pursuit of these aims , the United States and other like minded nations find themselves directly opposed by a regime with contrary aims and a totally different concept of life . That regime adheres to a false philosophy which purports to offer freedom , security , and greater opportunity to mankind . Misled by that philosophy , many peoples have sacrificed their liberties only to learn to their sorrow that deceit and mockery , poverty and tyranny , are their reward . That false philosophy is communism . Communism is based on the belief that man is so weak and inadequate that he is unable to govern himself , and therefore requires the rule of strong masters . Democracy is based on the conviction that man has the moral and intellectual capacity , as well as the inalienable right , to govern himself with reason and justice . Communism subjects the individual to arrest without lawful cause , punishment without trial , and forced labor as the chattel of the state . It decrees what information he shall receive , what art he shall produce , what leaders he shall follow , and what thoughts he shall think . Democracy maintains that government is established for the benefit of the individual , and is charged with the responsibility of protecting the rights of the individual and his freedom in the exercise of those abilities of his . Communism maintains that social wrongs can be corrected only by violence . Democracy has proved that social justice can be achieved through peaceful change . Communism holds that the world is so widely divided into opposing classes that war is inevitable . Democracy holds that free nations can settle differences justly and maintain a lasting peace . These differences between communism and democracy do not concern the United States alone . People everywhere are coming to realize that what is involved is material well being , human dignity , and the right to believe in and worship God . I state these differences , not to draw issues of belief as such , but because the actions resulting from the Communist philosophy are a threat to the efforts of free nations to bring about world recovery and lasting peace . Since the end of hostilities , the United States has invested its substance and its energy in a great constructive effort to restore peace , stability , and freedom to the world . We have sought no territory . We have imposed our will on none . We have asked for no privileges we would not extend to others . We have constantly and vigorously supported the United Nations and related agencies as a means of applying democratic principles to international relations . We have consistently advocated and relied upon peaceful settlement of disputes among nations . We have made every effort to secure agreement on effective international control of our most powerful weapon , and we have worked steadily for the limitation and control of all armaments . We have encouraged , by precept and example , the expansion of world trade on a sound and fair basis . Almost a year ago , in company with 16 free nations of Europe , we launched the greatest cooperative economic program in history . The purpose of that unprecedented effort is to invigorate and strengthen democracy in Europe , so that the free people of that continent can resume their rightful place in the forefront of civilization and can contribute once more to the security and welfare of the world . Our efforts have brought new hope to all mankind . We have beaten back despair and defeatism . We have saved a number of countries from losing their liberty . Hundreds of millions of people all over the world now agree with us , that we need not have war that we can have peace . The initiative is ours . We are moving on with other nations to build an even stronger structure of international order and justice . We shall have as our partners countries which , no longer solely concerned with the problem of national survival , are now working to improve the standards of living of all their people . We are ready to undertake new projects to strengthen a free world . In the coming years , our program for peace and freedom will emphasize four major courses of action . First , we will continue to give unfaltering support to the United Nations and related agencies , and we will continue to search for ways to strengthen their authority and increase their effectiveness . We believe that the United Nations will be strengthened by the new nations which are being formed in lands now advancing toward self government under democratic principles . Second , we will continue our programs for world economic recovery . This means , first of all , that we must keep our full weight behind the European recovery program . We are confident of the success of this major venture in world recovery . We believe that our partners in this effort will achieve the status of self supporting nations once again . In addition , we must carry out our plans for reducing the barriers to world trade and increasing its volume . Economic recovery and peace itself depend on increased world trade . Third , we will strengthen freedom loving nations against the dangers of aggression . We are now working out with a number of countries a joint agreement designed to strengthen the security of the North Atlantic area . Such an agreement would take the form of a collective defense arrangement within the terms of the United Nations Charter . We have already established such a defense pact for the Western Hemisphere by the treaty of Rio de Janeiro . The primary purpose of these agreements is to provide unmistakable proof of the joint determination of the free countries to resist armed attack from any quarter . Every country participating in these arrangements must contribute all it can to the common defense . If we can make it sufficiently clear , in advance , that any armed attack affecting our national security would be met with overwhelming force , the armed attack might never occur . I hope soon to send to the Senate a treaty respecting the North Atlantic security plan . In addition , we will provide military advice and equipment to free nations which will cooperate with us in the maintenance of peace and security . Fourth , we must embark on a bold new program for making the benefits of our scientific advances and industrial progress available for the improvement and growth of underdeveloped areas . More than half the people of the world are living in conditions approaching misery . Their food is inadequate . They are victims of disease . Their economic life is primitive and stagnant . Their poverty is a handicap and a threat both to them and to more prosperous areas . For the first time in history , humanity posesses the knowledge and skill to relieve suffering of these people . The United States is pre eminent among nations in the development of industrial and scientific techniques . The material resources which we can afford to use for assistance of other peoples are limited . But our imponderable resources in technical knowledge are constantly growing and are inexhaustible . I believe that we should make available to peace loving peoples the benefits of our store of technical knowledge in order to help them realize their aspirations for a better life . And , in cooperation with other nations , we should foster capital investment in areas needing development . Our aim should be to help the free peoples of the world , through their own efforts , to produce more food , more clothing , more materials for housing , and more mechanical power to lighten their burdens . We invite other countries to pool their technological resources in this undertaking . Their contributions will be warmly welcomed . This should be a cooperative enterprise in which all nations work together through the United Nations and its specialized agencies whenever practicable . It must be a worldwide effort for the achievement of peace , plenty , and freedom . With the cooperation of business , private capital , agriculture , and labor in this country , this program can greatly increase the industrial activity in other nations and can raise substantially their standards of living . Such new economic developments must be devised and controlled to the benefit of the peoples of the areas in which they are established . Guarantees to the investor must be balanced by guarantees in the interest of the people whose resources and whose labor go into these developments . The old imperialism exploitation for foreign profit has no place in our plans . What we envisage is a program of development based on the concepts of democratic fair dealing . All countries , including our own , will greatly benefit from a constructive program for the better use of the world s human and natural resources . Experience shows that our commerce with other countries expands as they progress industrially and economically . Greater production is the key to prosperity and peace . And the key to greater production is a wider and more vigorous application of modern scientific and technical knowledge . Only by helping the least fortunate of its members to help themselves can the human family achieve the decent , satisfying life that is the right of all people . Democracy alone can supply the vitalizing force to stir the peoples of the world into triumphant action , not only against their human oppressors , but also against their ancient enemies hunger , misery , and despair . On the basis of these four major courses of action we hope to help create the conditions that will lead eventually to personal freedom and happiness for all mankind . If we are to be successful in carrying out these policies , it is clear that we must have continued prosperity in this country and we must keep ourselves strong . Slowly but surely we are weaving a world fabric of international security and growing prosperity . We are aided by all who wish to live in freedom from fear even by those who live today in fear under their own governments . We are aided by all who want relief from lies and propaganda those who desire truth and sincerity . We are aided by all who desire self government and a voice in deciding their own affairs . We are aided by all who long for economic security for the security and abundance that men in free societies can enjoy . We are aided by all who desire freedom of speech , freedom of religion , and freedom to live their own lives for useful ends . Our allies are the millions who hunger and thirst after righteousness . In due time , as our stability becomes manifest , as more and more nations come to know the benefits of democracy and to participate in growing abundance , I believe that those countries which now oppose us will abandon their delusions and join with the free nations of the world in a just settlement of international differences . Events have brought our American democracy to new influence and new responsibilities . They will test our courage , our devotion to duty , and our concept of liberty . But I say to all men , what we have achieved in liberty , we will surpass in greater liberty . Steadfast in our faith in the Almighty , we will advance toward a world where man s freedom is secure . To that end we will devote our strength , our resources , and our firmness of resolve . With God s help , the future of mankind will be assured in a world of justice , harmony , and peace .<speech_sep>My fellow Americans I have just returned from Berlin , the city from which the Germans intended to rule the world . It is a ghost city . The buildings are in ruins , its economy and its people are in ruins . Our party also visited what is left of Frankfurt and Darmstadt . We flew over the remains of Kassel , Magdeburg , and other devastated cities . German women and children and old men were wandering over the highways , returning to bombed out homes or leaving bombed out cities , searching for food and shelter . War has indeed come home to Germany and to the German people . It has come home in all the frightfulness with which the German leaders started and waged it . The German people are beginning to atone for the crimes of the gangsters whom they placed in power and whom they wholeheartedly approved and obediently followed . We also saw some of the terrific destruction which the war had brought to the occupied countries of Western Europe and to England . How glad I am to be home again And how grateful to Almighty God that this land of ours has been spared We must do all we can to spare her from the ravages of any future breach of the peace . That is why , though the United States wants no territory or profit or selfish advantage out of this war , we are going to maintain the military bases necessary for the complete protection of our interests and of world peace . Bases which our military experts deem to be essential for our protection , and which are not now in our possession , we will acquire . We will acquire them by arrangements consistent with the United Nations Charter . No one can foresee what another war would mean to our own cities and our own people . What we are doing to Japan now even with the new atomic bomb is only a small fraction of what would happen to the world in a third World War . That is why the United Nations are determined that there shall be no next war . That is why the United Nations are determined to remain united and strong . We can never permit any aggressor in the future to be clever enough to divide us or strong enough to defeat us . That was the guiding spirit in the conference at San Francisco . That was the guiding spirit in the conference of Berlin . That will be the guiding spirit in the peace settlements to come . In the conference of Berlin , it was easy for me to get along in mutual understanding and friendship with Generalissimo Stalin , with Prime Minister Churchill , and later with Prime Minister Attlee . Strong foundations of good will and cooperation had been laid by President Roosevelt . And it was clear that those foundations rested upon much more than the personal friendships of three individuals . There was a fundamental accord and agreement upon the objectives ahead of us . Two of the three conferees of Teheran and Yalta were missing by the end of this conference . Each of them was sorely missed . Each had done his work toward winning this war . Each had made a great contribution toward establishing and maintaining a lasting world peace . Each of them seems to have been ordained to lead his country in its hour of greatest need . And so thoroughly had they done their jobs that we were able to carry on and to reach many agreements essential to the future peace and security of the world . The results of the Berlin conference have been published . There were no secret agreements or commitments apart from current military arrangements . And it was made perfectly plain to my colleagues at the conference that , under our Constitution , the President has no power to make any treaties without ratification by the Senate of the United States . I want to express my thanks for the excellent services which were rendered at this conference by Secretary of State Byrnes , and which were highly commended by the leaders of the other two powers . am thankful also to the other members of the American delegation Admiral Leahy and Ambassadors Harriman , Davies , and Pauley and to the entire American staff . Without their hard work and sound advice the conference would have been unable to accomplish as much as it did . The conference was concerned with many political and economic questions . But there was one strictly military matter uppermost in the minds of the American delegates . It was the winning of the war against Japan . On our program , that was the most important item . The military arrangements made at Berlin were of course secret . One of those secrets was revealed yesterday , when the Soviet Union declared war on Japan . The Soviet Union , before she had been informed of our new weapon , agreed to enter the war in the Pacific . We gladly welcome into this struggle against the last of the Axis aggressors our gallant and victorious ally against the Nazis . The Japs will soon learn some more of the other military secrets agreed upon at Berlin . They will learn them firsthand and they will not like them . Before we met at Berlin , the United States Government had sent to the Soviet and British Governments our ideas of what should be taken up at the conference . At the first meeting our delegation submitted these proposals for discussion . Subjects were added by the Soviet and British Governments , but in the main the conference was occupied with the American proposals . Our first nonmilitary agreement in Berlin was the establishment of the Council of Foreign Ministers . The Council is going to be the continuous meeting ground of the five principal governments , on which to reach common understanding regarding the peace settlements . This does not mean that the five governments are going to try to dictate to , or dominate , other nations . It will be their duty to apply , so far as possible , the fundamental principles of justice underlying the Charter adopted at San Francisco . Just as the meeting at Dumbarton Oaks drew up the proposals to be placed before the conference at San Francisco , so this Council of Foreign Ministers will lay the groundwork for future peace settlements . This preparation by the Council will make possible speedier , more orderly , more efficient , and more cooperative peace settlements than could otherwise be obtained . One of the first tasks of the Council of Foreign Ministers is to draft proposed treaties of peace with former enemy countries Italy , Rumania , Bulgaria , Hungary , and Finland . These treaties , of course , will have to be passed upon by all the nations concerned . In our own country the Senate will have to ratify them . But we shall begin at once the necessary preparatory work . Adequate study now may avoid the planting of the seeds of future wars . I am sure that the American people will agree with me that this Council of Foreign Ministers will be effective in hastening the day of peace and reconstruction . We are anxious to settle the future of Italy first among the former enemy countries . Italy was the first to break away from the Axis . She helped materially in the final defeat of Germany . She has now joined us in the war against Japan . She is making real progress toward democracy . A peace treaty with a democratic Italian government will make it possible for us to receive Italy as a member of the United Nations . The Council of Foreign Ministers will also have to start the preparatory work for a German peace settlement . But its final acceptance will have to wait until Germany has developed a government with which a peace treaty can be made . In the meantime , the conference of Berlin laid down the specific political and economic principles under which Germany will be governed by the occupying powers . Those principles have been published . I hope that all of you will read them . 1 1See Item 91 . They seek to rid Germany of the forces which have made her so long feared and hated , and which have now brought her to complete disaster . They are intended to eliminate Nazisre , armaments , war industries , the German General Staff and all its military tradition . They seek to rebuild democracy by control of German education , by reorganizing local government and the judiciary , by encouraging free speech , free press , freedom of religion , and the right of labor to organize . German industry is to be decentralized in order to do away with concentration of economic power in cartels and monopolies . Chief emphasis is to be on agriculture and peaceful industry . German economic power to make war is to be eliminated . The Germans are not to have a higher standard of living than their former victims , the people of the defeated and occupied countries of Europe . We are going to do what we can to make Germany over into a decent nation , so that it may eventually work its way from the economic chaos it has brought upon itself , back into a place in the civilized world . The economic action taken against Germany at the Berlin conference included another most important item reparations . We do not intend again to make the mistake of exacting reparations in money and then lending Germany the money with which to pay . Reparations this time are to be paid in physical assets from those resources of Germany which are not required for her peacetime subsistence . The first purpose of reparations is to take out of Germany everything with which she can prepare for another war . Its second purpose is to help the devastated countries to bring about their own recovery by means of the equipment and material taken from Germany . At the Crimea conference a basis for fixing reparations had been proposed for initial discussion and study by the Reparations Commission . That basis was a total amount of reparations of twenty billions of dollars . Of this sum , one half was to go to Russia , which had suffered more heavily in the loss of life and property than any other country . But at Berlin the idea of attempting to fix a dollar value on the property to be removed from Germany was dropped . To fix a dollar value on the share of each nation would be a sort of guarantee of the amount each nation would get a guarantee which might not be fulfilled . Therefore , it was decided to divide the property by percentages of the total amount available . We still generally agreed that Russia should get approximately half of the total for herself and Poland , and that the remainder should be divided among all the other nations entitled to reparations . Under our agreement at Berlin , the reparations claims of the Soviet Union and Poland are to be met from the property located in the zone of Germany occupied by the Soviet Union , and from the German assets in Bulgaria , Finland , Hungary , Rumania and East Austria . The reparations claims of all the other countries are to be met from property located in the western zones of occupation in Germany , and from the German assets in all other countries . The Soviet waives all claim to gold captured by the Allied troops in Germany . This formula of taking reparations by zones will lead to less friction among the Allies than the tentative basis originally proposed for study at Yalta . The difficulty with this formula , however , is that the industrial capital equipment not necessary for German peace economy is not evenly divided among the zones of occupation . The western zones have a much higher percentage than the eastern zone , which is mostly devoted to agriculture and to the production of raw materials . In order to equalize the distribution and to give Russia and Poland their fair share of approximately 50 percent , it was decided that they should receive , without any reimbursement , 10 percent of the capital equipment in the western zones available for reparations . As you will note from the communique , a further 15 percent of the capital equipment in the western zones not necessary for Germany s peace economy is also to be turned over to Russia and Poland . But this is not free . For this property , Poland and Russia will give to the western zones an equal amount in value in food , coal , and other raw materials . This 15 percent , therefore , is not additional reparations for Russia and Poland . It is a means of maintaining a balanced economy in Germany and providing the usual exchange of goods between the eastern part and the western part . It was agreed at Berlin that the payment of reparations , from whatever zones taken , should always leave enough resources to enable the German people to subsist without sustained support from other nations . The question of Poland was a most difficult one . Certain compromises about Poland had already been agreed upon at the Crimea conference . They obviously were binding upon us at Berlin . By the time of the Berlin conference , the Polish Provisional Government of National Unity had already been formed and it had been recognized by all of us . The new Polish Government had agreed to hold free and unfettered elections as soon as possible , on the basis of universal suffrage and the secret ballot . In acceptance in accordance with the Crimea agreement , we did seek the opinion of the Polish Provisional Government of National Unity with respect to its western and northern boundaries . They agreed , as did we all , that the final determination of the borders could not be accomplished at Berlin , but must await the peace settlement . However , a considerable portion of what was the Russian zone of occupation in Germany was turned over to Poland at the Berlin conference for administrative purposes until the final determination of the peace settlement . Nearly every international agreement has in it the element of compromise . The agreement on Poland is no exception . No one nation can expect to get everything that it wants . It is a question of give and take of being willing to meet your neighbor half way . In this instance , there is much to justify the action taken . The agreement on some line even provisionally was necessary to enable the new Poland to organize itself , and to permit the speedier withdrawal of the armed forces which had liberated her from the Germans . In the area east of the Curzon line there are over 3 , 000 , 000 Poles who are to be returned to Poland . They need room , room to settle . The new area in the West was formerly populated by Germans . But most of them have already left in the face of the invading Soviet Army . We were informed that there were only about a million and a half left . The territory the Poles are to administer will enable Poland better to support its population . It will provide a short and more easily defensible frontier between Poland and Germany . Settled by Poles , it will provide a more homogeneous nation . The Three Powers also agreed to help bring about the earliest possible return to Poland of all Poles who wish to return , including soldiers , with the assurance that they would have all the rights of other Polish citizens . The action taken at Berlin will help carry out the basic policy of the United Nations toward Poland to create a strong , independent , and prosperous nation with a government to be selected by the people themselves . It was agreed to recommend that in the peace settlement a portion of East Prussia should be turned over to Russia . That , too , was agreed upon at Yalta . It will provide the Soviet Union , which did so much to bring about victory in Europe , with an ice free port at the expense of Germany . At Yalta it was agreed , you will recall , that the three governments would assume a common responsibility in helping to reestablish in the liberated and satellite nations of Europe governments broadly representative of democratic elements in the population . That responsibility still stands . We all recognize it as a joint responsibility of the three governments . It was reaffirmed in the Berlin Declarations on Rumania , Bulgaria , and Hungary . These nations are not to be spheres of influence of any one power . They are now governed by Allied control commissions composed of representatives of the three governments which met at Yalta and Berlin . These control commissions , it is true , have not been functioning completely to our satisfaction but improved procedures were agreed upon at Berlin . Until these states are reestablished as members of the international family , they are the joint concern of all of us . The American delegation was much disturbed over the inability of the representatives of a free press to get information out of the former German satellite nations . The three governments agreed at Berlin that the Allied press would enjoy full freedom from now on to report to the world upon all developments in Rumania , Bulgaria , Hungary , and Finland . The same agreement was reaffirmed also as to Poland . One of the persistent causes for wars in Europe in the last two centuries has been the selfish control of the waterways of Europe . I mean the Danube , the Black Sea Straits , the Rhine , the Kiel Canal , and all the inland waterways of Europe which border upon two or more states . The United States proposed at Berlin that there be free and unrestricted navigation of these inland waterways . We think this is important to the future peace and security of the world . We proposed that regulations for such navigation be provided by international authorities . The function of the agencies would be to develop the use of the waterways and assure equal treatment on them for all nations . Membership on the agencies would include the United States , Great Britain , the Soviet Union , and France , plus those states which border on the waterways . Our proposal was considered by the conference and was referred to the Council of Ministers . There , the United States intends to press for its adoption . Any man who sees Europe now must realize that victory in a great war is not something you win once and for all , like victory in a ball game . Victory in a great war is something that must be won and kept won . It can be lost after you have won it if you are careless or negligent or indifferent . Europe today is hungry . I am not talking about Germans . I am talking about the people of the countries which were overrun and devastated by the Germans , and particularly about the people of Western Europe . Many of them lack clothes and fuel and tools and shelter and raw materials . They lack the means to restore their cities and their factories . As the winter comes on , the distress will increase . Unless we do what we can to help , we may lose next winter what we won at such terrible cost last spring . Desperate men are liable to destroy the structure of their society to find in the wreckage some substitute for hope . If we let Europe go cold and hungry , we may lose some of the foundations of order on which the hope for worldwide peace must rest . We must help to the limits of our strength . And we will . Our meeting at Berlin was the first meeting of the great Allies since victory was won in Europe . Naturally our thoughts now turn to the day of victory in Japan . The British , Chinese , and United States Governments have given the Japanese people adequate warning of what is in store for them . We have laid down the general terms on which they can surrender . Our warning went unheeded our terms were rejected . Since then the Japanese have seen what our atomic bomb can do . They can foresee what it will do in the future . The world will note that the first atomic bomb was dropped on Hiroshima , a military base . That was because we wished in this first attack to avoid , insofar as possible , the killing of civilians . But that attack is only a warning of things to come . If Japan does not surrender , bombs will have to be dropped on her war industries and , unfortunately , thousands of civilian lives will be lost . I urge Japanese civilians to leave industrial cities immediately , and save themselves from destruction . I realize the tragic significance of the atomic bomb . Its production and its use were not lightly undertaken by this Government . But we knew that our enemies were on the search for it . We know now how close they were to finding it . And we knew the disaster which would come to this Nation , and to all peace loving nations , to all civilization , if they had found it first . That is why we felt compelled to undertake the long and uncertain and costly labor of discovery and production . We won the race of discovery against the Germans . Having found the bomb we have used it . We have used it against those who attacked us without warning at Pearl Harbor , against those who have starved and beaten and executed American prisoners of war , against those who have abandoned all pretense of obeying international laws of warfare . We have used it in order to shorten the agony of war , in order to save the lives of thousands and thousands of young Americans . We shall continue to use it until we completely destroy Japan s power to make war . Only a Japanese surrender will stop us . The atomic bomb is too dangerous to be loose in a lawless world . That is why Great Britain , Canada , and the United States , who have the secret of its production , do not intend to reveal that secret until means have been found to control the bomb so as to protect ourselves and the rest of the world from the danger of total destruction . As far back as last May , Secretary of War Stimson , at my suggestion , appointed a committee upon which Secretary of State Byrnes served as my personal representative , to prepare plans for the future control of this bomb . I shall ask the Congress to cooperate to the end that its production and use be controlled , and that its power be made an overwhelming influence towards world peace . We must constitute ourselves trustees of this new force to prevent its misuse , and to turn it into the channels of service to mankind . It is an awful responsibility which has come to us . We thank God that it has come to us , instead of to our enemies and we pray that He may guide us to use it in His ways and for His purposes . Our victory in Europe was more than a victory of arms . It was a victory of one way of life over another . It was a victory of an ideal founded on the rights of the common man , on the dignity of the human being , on the conception of the State as the servant and not the master of its people . A free people showed that it was able to defeat professional soldiers whose only moral arms were obedience and the worship of force . We tell ourselves that we have emerged from this war the most powerful nation in the world the most powerful nation , perhaps , in all history . That is true , but not in the sense some of us believe it to be true . The war has shown us that we have tremendous resources to make all the materials for war . It has shown us that we have skillful workers and managers and able generals , and a brave people capable of bearing arms . All these things we knew before . The new thing the thing which we had not known the thing we have learned now and should never forget , is this that a society of self governing men is more powerful , more enduring , more creative than any other kind of society , however disciplined , however centralized . We know now that the basic proposition of the worth and dignity of man is not a sentimental aspiration or a vain hope or a piece of rhetoric . It is the strongest , most creative force now present in this world . Now let us use that force and all our resources and all our skills in the great cause of a just and lasting peace The Three Great Powers are now more closely than ever bound together in determination to achieve that kind of peace . From Teheran , and the Crimea , from San Francisco and Berlin we shall continue to march together to a lasting peace and a happy world<speech_sep>Chairman , Vice President , Speaker , Chairman of the Democratic Committee , distinguished guests and fellow Democrats I am very happy to be here tonight . This makes seven Jefferson Jackson dinners that I have spoken to in the city of Washington . I hope to attend several more , in one capacity or another . They have all been wonderful dinners . One of the things I like about the dinners is the fact that they are political meetings . I like political meetings , and I like politics . Politics good politics is public service . There is no life or occupation in which a man can find a greater opportunity to serve his community or his country . I have been in politics more than 30 years , and I know that nothing else could have given me greater satisfaction . I have had a career from precinct to President , and I am a little bit proud of that career . I am sure all of you here tonight are very much interested in the presidential election this year . In view of that fact , I thought I would give you a little analysis of the political situation as I see it . The political situation in this country may look complicated , but you can find the key to it in a simple thing The Republicans have been out of office for 20 long years and they are desperate to get back in office so they can control the country again . For 20 years the Republicans have been wandering in a political desert like camels looking for an oasis . They do not drink the same thing that camels do , though . And if they do not find it pretty soon , the Republican Party may die out , altogether . And you know , I would just hate to see that happen . I would like to help keep the Republican Party alive , if that is at all possible . So I am going to offer them a little advice about the error of their ways . There are some very good reasons why the Republicans have been out of office so long and have not been able to get back in control . The first reason is that they were voted out in 1932 because they had brought the country to the brink of ruin . In the 1920 s the Republican administrations drew back in petrified isolation from our world responsibilities . They spent all their time trying to help the rich get richer , and paid no attention to the welfare of the workers and the farmers . All in all , they paved the way for the biggest economic smashup this country has ever seen . That is the reason the Republicans were thrown out of office in 1932 and one of the very good reasons why they have been kept out ever since . People do not want any more Great Depressions . The second reason why the Republicans have been out of office for 20 years is that the Democratic Party has been giving the country good government . Instead of trying to build up the prosperity of the favored few , and letting some of it trickle down to the rest , we have been working to raise the incomes of the vast majority of the people . And we have been steadily expanding the base for prosperity and freedom in this country . The people have kept right on reelecting Democrats because we have been serving them well and they know it . The third reason the Republicans have been kept out of power for an years is because they have never been able to agree on a sensible program to put before the country . They have been on almost every side of every question , but they have seldom or never been on the right side . In 1936 they said the New Deal was terrible and they were against it and all its works . And in the election that fall they just lost by a landslide . In 1940 they admitted there might be some good in some parts of the New Deal , but they said you needed a Republican to run it . And they were overwhelmingly beaten again . In 1944 the Republicans said the New Deal might have been good in its day , but it had gotten old and tired and it was no good any more . But the people did not agree , and the Republicans were snowed under once more . Now in 1948 they said well , as a matter of fact , by 1948 they were so sure of winning that they really did not bother to take a position on anything . And they got just exactly what they deserved they got another good licking . And by now the Republicans cannot figure out what to do . Every day you hear a new Republican theory of how to win the election of 1952 . One theory they have is that they ought to come right out and say they are against all advances the country has made since 1932 . This is the kind of dinosaur school of Republican strategy . They want to go back to prehistoric times . Republicans of this school say Let us stop beating about the bush and let us say what we really believe . Let us say we are against social security and we are against the labor unions and good wages and we are opposed to price supports for farmers that we are against the Government doing anything for anybody except big business . Now , I have a lot of sympathy for these Republicans . They have been hushed up for a long time . They would certainly be happier if they could tell the truth for once and campaign for what they really believe . It would be good for their souls . But it would not be good for their party , or for the country either . This dinosaur school of Republican strategy would only get the dinosaur vote and there are not many of them left , except over at the Smithsonian . Next , there is the Republican theory that the Republicans can win if they oppose the foreign policy of the United States . They cannot agree among themselves as to how they want to oppose it , but most of them want to oppose it somehow . Some Republicans seem to think it would be popular to pull out of Korea , and to abandon Europe , and to let the United Nations go to smash . They reason this way The American people are not very bright . Let us tell them they do not have to build up defenses , or serve in the Army , or strengthen our allies overseas . If they fall for that , then we Republicans will be in and that is all that matters . The trouble with the Republican theory is that the American people are a lot smarter than the Republicans who thought it up . The American people have learned a lot from two world wars and from the last 7 years of working to keep the peace . They know that as long as communism is loose in the world we must have allies and we must resist aggression . The American people are living in the atomic age , and they know that the ideas of the stone age will not work any more if they ever did work . And there is another group of Republicans who attack our foreign policy by advocating the all out or let us get it over with theory . These are the Republicans who say they want to expand the fighting in Korea , and start dropping atomic bombs , and invite a new world war . They figure it is good politics to talk that way . They do not stop to count the cost . They think people do not understand that the hardest and bravest thing in the world is to work for peace and not for war . But if war comes and God forbid that it comes if the showdown comes , these loud talkers would be the first people to run for the bomb shelters . And the voters know it . None of these Republican theories of how to win the election holds much promise of success this year . All they show is that the platform that the Republicans write in Chicago in July will have to be a fearful and wonderful thing to cover all these different theories . It will have to be a bigger tent than the Ringling Brothers circus and it will have to cover just about as many freaks . It has even become fashionable for the Republican candidates to saw themselves in half and put part on each side of the fence . That would fit under the tent , too . The real Republican campaign is not going to be fought on the issues . The Republicans are going to wage a campaign of phony propaganda . They are going to try what we might call the white is black and the black is white strategy . The reasoning behind it is this The Republicans know that the Nation is strong and prosperous , that we are building up defenses against communism , that the Democratic administration has worked for the good of the people . The only chance for the Republicans , therefore , is to make the people think the facts are not so . The job for the Republicans is to make people believe that white is black and black is white . This is a pretty difficult way to win an election . It would not appeal to anybody but very desperate Republican politicians . But the Republicans have some reason for thinking it might succeed . They will have the support of most of the press , and most of the radio commentators . And they may have the professional poll takers with them again as they were in 1948 . The Republicans , as always , will have a lot of money . They have slick advertising experts . And they do not have too many scruples about how they use them . Remember that carpetbagger from Chicago who got convicted for the way he elected a Republican Senator in Maryland in 1950 They will try that all over the country . The Republicans are all set to try this white is black technique . And this is the way it will work . First of all , they will try to make people believe that everything the Government has done for the country is socialism . They will go to the people and say Did you see that social security check you received the other day you thought that was good for you , did not you That is just too bad That is nothing in the world but socialism . Did you see that new flood control dam the Government is building over there for the protection of your property Sorry that is awful socialism That new hospital that they are building is socialism . Price supports , more socialism for the farmers Minimum wage laws Socialism for labor Socialism is bad for you , my friend . Everybody knows that . And here you are , with your new car , and your home , and better opportunities for the kids , and a television set you are just surrounded by socialism Now the Republicans say , That is a terrible thing , my friend , and the only way out of this sinkhole of socialism is to vote for the Republican ticket . And if you do that , you will probably have a garage and no car , a crystal radio set and no television and probably not even a garage to live in , but a secondhand tent out on the lawn . I do not believe people are going to be fooled into that condition , because they went through it once before . Now , do you think they can sell that bill of goods This country today has more freedom for all its people than any country in the history of the world . And all the efforts of all the Republican politicians cannot convince the people that this is socialism . The next part of this white is black campaign is to try to make people believe that the Democratic Party is in favor of communism . That is an even tougher job than selling the socialism nonsense , but the Republicans are desperate , so they are going to try it . Of course , we have spent billions of dollars to build up our defenses against communism we have created an alliance of the free nations against communism we are helping them to arm against communism we have met and halted communism in Greece and Turkey , in Berlin and Austria , in Italy and Iran , and the most important of all , in Korea . We have fought communism abroad . We have fought communism at home . We have an FBI and a Central Intelligence Agency defending us against spies and saboteurs . The Federal loyalty program keeps Communists out of Government . That is the record , and how do the Republicans propose to get around it Here s what they will try to do . They will go to the voters and say , Did you know the Government was full of Communists And the voters say , No . What makes you say that And then the Republicans explain that somebody named Joe Doakes works for the Government , and he has a cousin who sells shoelaces , or a ribbon clerk in a department store , and this cousin has a wife who wrote an article , before Joe married her , that was printed in a magazine that also printed an article in favor of Chinese Communists and they will continue that ad lib . This may sound very silly , and it is . But some political fakers spend all their time trying to pull the wool over the people s eyes with this sort of nonsense . The real test of anti communism is whether we are willing to devote our resources and our strength to stopping Communist aggression and saving free people from its horrible tyranny . This kind of anti communism takes money and courage and not just a lot of talk . The next time you hear some of this loud anti Communist talk from our Republican friends , ask them how they voted ask them how they voted on aid to Greece , ask them how they voted on the Marshall plan , ask them how they voted on the mutual security program . The chances are they voted to cut or cripple these all important measures against communism . I say to you in all seriousness , beware of those who pretend to be so violently anti Communist in this country , and at the same time vote to appease communism abroad . In my book , that is talking out of both sides of the mouth at once and I do not think the American people are going to be taken in by it . The next part of the Republican white is black campaign is to try to fool the voters into thinking that the Democratic Party is dishonest that the Government is full of grafters and thieves and all kinds of assorted crooks . To hear them talk you would not think that there was an honest man in Washington . And that includes some of them , too , maybe . Now , I want to say something very important to you about this issue of morality in government . I stand for honest government . I have worked for it . I have probably done more for it than any other President . I have done more than any other President to reorganize the Government on an efficient basis , and to extend the civil service merit system . I hate corruption not only because it is bad in itself , but also because it is the deadly enemy of all things the Democratic Party has been doing all these years . I hate corruption everywhere , but I hate it most of all in a Democratic officeholder , because that is a betrayal of all that the Democratic Party stands for . Here is the reason . To me , morality in government means more than a mere absence of wrongdoing . It means a government that is fair to all . I think it is just as immoral for the Congress to enact special tax favors into law as it is for a tax official to connive in a crooked tax return . It is just as immoral to use the lawmaking power of the Government to enrich the few at the expense of the many , as it is to steal money from the public treasury . That is stealing money from the public treasury . All of us know , of course , about the scandals and corruption of the Republican officeholders in the 1920 s . But to my mind the Veterans Administration scandals , in those days , and the Teapot Dome steal , were no worse no more immoral than the tax laws of Andrew Mellon , or the attempt to sell Muscle Shoals to private owners . Legislation that favored the greed of monopoly and the trickery of Wall Street was a form of corruption that did the country four times as much harm as Teapot Dome ever did . Private selfish interests are always trying to corrupt the Government in this way . Powerful financial groups are always trying to get favors for themselves . Now , the Democratic administration has been fighting against these efforts to corrupt the powers of Government . We have not always won , but we have never surrendered , and we never will . For all these years , we have been fighting to use our natural resources for the benefit of the public , to develop our forests and our public oil reserves and our water power for the benefit of all , to raise the incomes of all our citizens , to protect the farmer and the worker against the power of monopoly . And where have the Republicans been in this fight for morality in Government Do they come out and vote with us to keep the special interests from robbing the public Not at all . Most of them are on the other side . It is the same thing when you come to the question of the conduct of Government officials . The Republicans make a great whoop and holier about the honesty of Federal employees , but they are usually the first to show up in a Government office asking for special favors for private interests , and in raising cain if they do not get them . These Republican gentlemen cannot have it both ways they cannot be for morality on Tuesday and Thursday , and then be for special privileges for their clients on Monday , Wednesday , and Friday . The press recently for a wonder has been giving some facts on this subject that have been very hard to get at . I am disgusted with these efforts to discredit and blacken the character and reputation of the whole Federal service . We have a higher percentage of Federal employees under civil service than ever before , and on the whole they are a finer , better type of men and women than we have ever had in the service before . It is just as much our duty to protect the innocent as it is to punish the guilty . If a man is accused , he ought to have his day in court , and I do not mean a kangaroo court , either . I hate injustice just as much as I hate corruption . Of course , we must always work to keep our Government clean . Our Democratic Senators and Congressmen have been working and I have been working to clean up bad conditions where they exist , and to devise procedures and systems to prevent them in the future . And I would like to have help in this fight from everybody , Democrats and Republicans alike . I have just got one reorganization plan through the Congress , and I am going to send up some more plans to the Congress soon to put more of our Federal officials under civil service and out of politics . I would like to see how many of the Republicans vote for them . I do not think the black is white campaign of the Republican Party is going to succeed . I think the voters are going to see through this holier than thou disguise that our Republican friends are putting on . All the tricks of Republican propaganda cannot make the people forget that the Democratic Party has been working for their welfare . We are working for the welfare of the farmer . We hold to the ideal that goes back to Jefferson , that a farmer should have the opportunity to own his farm , to share in the benefits of scientific progress , and to secure a fair income for his efforts . The Democratic Party is working for the success of our free enterprise system . We have worked to prevent monopoly , to give the small businessman a fair chance , and to develop our natural resources for all the people , and not just for the favored few . The Democratic Party is working for the welfare of labor . We have worked for good wages and hour legislation , for unemployment compensation , and for fair labor relations laws . The Democratic Party is dedicated to the ideal that every family is entitled to fair opportunities for decent living conditions , to a chance to educate their children , to have good medical services , and reasonable provision for retirement . That is why we have worked for good social security laws , for better education and health services , for good housing , and for equal rights and opportunities for all our people , regardless of color , religion , or national origin . Above all , the Democratic Party is working for peace on earth and goodwill among men . We believe that war is not inevitable , that peace can be won , that free men of all lands can find the way to live together in the world as good neighbors . That is why we have been willing to sacrifice to stop aggression , willing to send our money and our goods to help men in other countries stand up against tyranny , willing to fight in Korea to stop World War III before it begins . For if the bloody harvest of world war were to begin anew , most of us would never see a peaceful world again . This is the record of the Democratic Party . It is a proud record , and an honorable record . It is a record of progress , of actions that are right because they are solidly founded on American ideals . Whoever the Democrats nominate for President this year , he will have this record to run upon . I shall not be a candidate for reelection . I have served my country long , and I think efficiently and honestly . I shall not accept a renomination . I do not feel that it is my duty to spend another 4 years in the White House . We must always remember the things the Democratic Party has done , and the high ideals that have made it great . We must be true to its principles and keep it foremost in service of the people . If we do that , we can be sure that there will be a Democratic President in the White House for the next 4 years .<speech_sep>Chairman , Roosevelt , Senator Morse , distinguished guests , ladies and gentlemen I am happy to be present at the closing session of the 38th Annual Conference of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People . The occasion of meeting with you here at the Lincoln Memorial affords me the opportunity to congratulate the association upon its effective work for the improvement of our democratic processes . I should like to talk to you briefly about civil rights and human freedom . It is my deep conviction that we have reached a turning point in the long history of our country s efforts to guarantee freedom and equality to all our citizens . Recent events in the United States and abroad have made us realize that it is more important today than ever before to insure that all Americans enjoy these rights . When I say all Americans I mean all Americans . The civil rights laws written in the early years of our Republic , and the traditions which have been built upon them , are precious to us . Those laws were drawn up with the memory still fresh in men s minds of the tyranny of an absentee government . They were written to protect the citizen against any possible tyrannical act by the new government in this country . But we cannot be content with a civil liberties program which emphasizes only the need of protection against the possibility of tyranny by the Government . We cannot stop there . We must keep moving forward , with new concepts of civil rights to safeguard our heritage . The extension of civil rights today means , not protection of the people against the Government , but protection of the people by the Government . We must make the Federal Government a friendly , vigilant defender of the rights and equalities of all Americans . And again I mean all Americans . As Americans , we believe that every man should be free to live his life as he wishes . He should be limited only by his responsibility to his fellow countrymen . If this freedom is to be more than a dream , each man must be guaranteed equality of opportunity . The only limit to an American s achievement should be his ability , his industry , and his character . These rewards for his effort should be determined only by those truly relevant qualifies . Our immediate task is to remove the last remnants of the barriers which stand between millions of our citizens and their birthright . There is no justifiable reason for discrimination because of ancestry , or religion , or race , or color . We must not tolerate such limitations on the freedom of any of our people and on their enjoyment of basic rights which every citizen in a truly democratic society must possess . Every man should have the right to a decent home , the right to an education , the right to adequate medical care , the right to a worthwhile job , the right to an equal share in making the public decisions through the ballot , and the fight to a fair trial in a fair court . We must insure that these rights on equal terms are enjoyed by every citizen . To these principles I pledge my full and continued support . Many of our people still suffer the indignity of insult , the narrowing fear of intimidation , and , I regret to say , the threat of physical injury and mob violence . Prejudice and intolerance in which these evils are rooted still exist . The conscience of our Nation , and the legal machinery which enforces it , have not yet secured to each citizen full freedom from fear . We cannot wait another decade or another generation to remedy these evils . We must work , as never before , to cure them now . The aftermath of war and the desire to keep faith with our Nation s historic principles make the need a pressing one . The support of desperate populations of battle ravaged countries must be won for the free way of life . We must have them as allies in our continuing struggle for the peaceful solution of the world s problems . Freedom is not an easy lesson to teach , nor an easy cause to sell , to peoples beset by every kind of privation . They may surrender to the false security offered so temptingly by totalitarian regimes unless we can prove the superiority of democracy . Our case for democracy should be as strong as we can make it . It should rest on practical evidence that we have been able to put our own house in order . For these compelling reasons , we can no longer afford the luxury of a leisurely attack upon prejudice and discrimination . There is much that State and local governments can do in providing positive safeguards for civil rights . But we cannot , any longer , await the growth of a will to action in the slowest State or the most backward community . Our National Government must show the way . This is a difficult and complex undertaking . Federal laws and administrative machineries must be improved and expanded . We must provide the Government with better tools to do the job . As a first step , I appointed an Advisory Committee on Civil Rights last December . Its members , fifteen distinguished private citizens , have been surveying our civil rights difficulties and needs for several months . I am confident that the product of their work will be a sensible and vigorous program for action by all of us . We must strive to advance civil rights wherever it lies within our power . For example , I have asked the Congress to pass legislation extending basic civil rights to the people of Guam and American Samoa so that these people can share our ideals of freedom and self government . This step , with others which will follow , is evidence to the rest of the world of our confidence in the ability of all men to build free institutions . The way ahead is not easy . We shall need all the wisdom , imagination and courage we can muster . We must and shall guarantee the civil rights of all our citizens . Never before has the need been so urgent for skillful and vigorous action to bring us closer to our ideal . We can reach the goal . When past difficulties faced our Nation we met the challenge with inspiring charters of human rights the Declaration of Independence , the Constitution , the Bill of Rights , and the Emancipation Proclamation . Today our representatives , and those of other liberty loving countries on the United Nations Commission on Human Rights , are preparing an International Bill of Rights . We can be confident that it will be a great landmark in man s long search for freedom since its members consist of such distinguished citizens of the world as Franklin Roosevelt . With these noble charters to guide us , and with faith in our hearts , we shall make our land a happier home for our people , a symbol of hope for all men , and a rock of security in a troubled world . Abraham Lincoln understood so well the ideal which you and I seek today . As this conference closes we would do well to keep in mind his words , when he said , if it shall please the Divine Being who determines the destinies of nations , we shall remain a united people , and we will , humbly seeking the Divine Guidance , make their prolonged national existence a source of new benefits to themselves and their successors , and to all classes and conditions of mankind .<speech_sep>Mayor , and my fellow townsmen and citizens of this great county named after Andrew Jackson I cannot tell you how very much I appreciate this turnout to celebrate a victory not my victory , but a victory of the Democratic Party for the people . I want to inform you , Mayor , that protocol goes out the window when I am in Independence . I am a citizen of this town , and a taxpayer , and I want to be treated just like the rest of the taxpayers in this community are treated , whether you extend the city limits or not . And I thank you very much indeed for this celebration , which is not for me . It is for the whole country . It is for the whole world , for the simple reason that you have given me a tremendous responsibility . Now , since you have given me that responsibility , I want every single one of you to help carry out that responsibility , for the welfare of this great Republic , and for the welfare and peace of the world at large . And I am sure that is what you are going to do . I cannot begin to thank the people who are responsible for the Democratic Party winning this great election . Of course , I am indebted to everybody for that win , and I will have to just say to every single one of you individually that I am going to do the very best I can to carry out the Democratic platform , as I promised to do in my speeches over this country . And we have a Congress now , and I am sure we will make some progress in the next 4 years . Thank you all very much .<speech_sep>I am more than happy to be with you here today . I remember very well that wonderful reception you gave me when I was here in 1948 . I appreciated that , and I also appreciate the way Johnstown voted . I want you to do as well or better for Adlai Stevenson . Will not you do that for me I have been going around the country telling the people the facts and the truth about what is at stake in this election . I think it is one of the most important we have had . In fact , I think it is the most important since the Civil War . I have been pointing out the real and the essential differences between the two parties . The Democratic Party has a heart for the plain everyday people of the country . That is what Franklin Roosevelt s New Deal was all about , and that is what Harry Truman s Fair Deal is all about . The Republican Party , on the other hand , is the servant of the big banks , big industry , the real estate lobby , the oil lobby , and the rest of that crew . With them profits come first ahead of the people . And you know the reason you have to be so careful in this election , they have the oil lobby and the real estate lobby and the China lobby and the National Association of Manufacturers , and the only man in Washington who represents all the people and is elected by all the people and who is the people s lobbyist is the President of the United States . So you will have to be mighty careful who you put in there . These special interests , these special lobbies , have fought the New Deal and the Fair Deal from the beginning . They are fighting still , and they will go back on all the progress we have made if you are foolish enough to give them a chance . That is not what they are telling you now during this campaign , but it is the way they have been voting in the Congress . Of course , there is a whole generation of young people now who do not remember much about what happened to this country the last time the Republicans ran the national government . Well , anybody who cannot remember had better ask and find out , because the same thing may happen again if you let them into power this time . There are a lot of people here who know exactly what it was like . I am told that in the Bethlehem plant here at Johnstown , the mills are 8 miles long . I am also told that from 1930 to 1934 no smoke came from even one of the hundreds of stacks in all those miles of mills . Now they will tell you that that just happened . Well , why is it that they have been expanding and growing and have people working at jobs I will tell you why . It is because we had a change of administration that had a heart for the people . I was told , at that same time , that twothirds of the homes in Cambria County were up for sale for delinquent taxes 20 years ago . Conditions were just that desperate all over the country , it was not confined to your place in this county , in this city . Now , any time I mention the great depression , the Republicans yell that we are just running against Herbert Hoover . Well , for one thing , they keep bringing him up . It was not our idea . It was not our idea at all . They had him turn up at their Republican Convention , to remind everybody that he was still a power in the Republican Party . We did not take him there . And for another thing , the Republican record in Congress during all the years since Hoover s time , shows they have not learned a thing , and probably will act as they did before , and just like he did , if they got in again . They are the people who vote against social security , they vote against housing , they vote against rent controls , they vote against minimum wages . They are the people who voted for Taft Hartley and for the labor injunction in the steel case . They are the people that want to take over the Government . That is the reason I am going around the country , trying to remind the people to do a little thinking for themselves . And it was not 1932 when they did these things . It was 1946 , it was 1947 , it was 1949 , and even 1952 . You know , you ought to read the fine print in the Congressional Record and find out how these birds behave when they think you do not know what they are doing , and then you will know what to do . The Republicans never have looked after the interests of the common people and they never will , no matter what their five star candidate may tell you at election time . It is clear by now that any relation between what he says about the Republican Party and its actual record is just purely coincidental . It is not necessary to pour it on . All that is necessary for me to do is to tell you the truth and get you to think a little bit . Signs like that young man is wearing Give em hell , Harry I do not have to give em hell , it is a lot worse for me to tell the truth on em , because they cannot stand the truth . Now you people are intelligent . You are a cross section of this United States of America . You are educated . You understand the English language . You understand what words mean when they are put together in a proper way . I want you to read the Democratic platform . The Democratic platform says exactly what the Democratic Party stands for . It says exactly what we have done and what we hope to do . Then I want you to read the Republican platform , and if you can make anything out of it but gobbledegook , I will pay for lying . It is about the lousiest platform that has ever been presented to this country of intelligent people to expect them to support it . Then they go around and tell you what they are going to do , and how they love you , and they have been for this and that , and what they will do in the future . But I am asking you to read the Republican platform , and read the fine print in the Congressional Record , and see how these birds voted . And then you cannot do anything else but use your heads . If you do that , you will vote for the welfare of the free world . You will vote for the welfare of the free world . And the greatest Nation in the history of the world is the leader of the free world that is the United States of America . Then you will vote for the interests of this great country which is your interest . Then you will look after yourselves . You will remember what happened you will remember 1932 , and you will also remember that awful do nothing good for nothing Both Congress that I put under the sod in 1948 . And if you do that , then my trip around the country has not been in vain . I am trying to wake you up to just think to think in your own interest . And when you do that , on November the 4th you will go to the polls and you will send Adlai Stevenson to the White House and we will have 4 more years of good government and prosperity . Thank you very much .<speech_sep>President , Speaker , Members of the Congress of the United States The gravity of the situation which confronts the world today necessitates my appearance before a joint session of the Congress . The foreign policy and the national security of this country are involved . One aspect of the present situation , which I present to you at this time for your consideration and decision , concerns Greece and Turkey . The United States has received from the Greek Government an urgent appeal for financial and economic assistance . Preliminary reports from the American Economic Mission now in Greece and reports from the American Ambassador in Greece corroborate the statement of the Greek Government that assistance is imperative if Greece is to survive as a free nation . I do not believe that the American people and the Congress wish to turn a deaf ear to the appeal of the Greek Government . Greece is not a rich country . Lack of sufficient natural resources has always forced the Greek people to work hard to make both ends meet . Since 1940 , this industrious , peace loving country has suffered invasion , four years of cruel enemy occupation , and bitter internal strife . When forces of liberation entered Greece they found that the retreating Germans had destroyed virtually all the railways , roads , port facilities , communications , and merchant marine . More than a thousand villages had been burned . Eighty five percent of the children were tubercular . Livestock , poultry , and draft animals had almost disappeared . Inflation had wiped out practically all savings . As a result of these tragic conditions , a militant minority , exploiting human want and misery , was able to create political chaos which , until now , has made economic recovery impossible . Greece is today without funds to finance the importation of those goods which are essential to bare subsistence . Under these circumstances the people of Greece cannot make progress in solving their problems of reconstruction . Greece is in desperate need of financial and economic assistance to enable it to resume purchases of food , clothing , fuel and seeds . These are indispensable for the subsistence of its people and are obtainable only from abroad . Greece must have help to import the goods necessary to restore internal order and security so essential for economic and political recovery . The Greek Government has also asked for the assistance of experienced American administrators , economists and technicians to insure that the financial and other aid given to Greece shall be used effectively in creating a stable and self sustaining economy and in improving its public administration . The very existence of the Greek state is today threatened by the terrorist activities of several thousand armed men , led by Communists , who defy the government s authority at a number of points , particularly along the northern boundaries . A Commission appointed by the United Nations Security Council is at present investigating disturbed conditions in northern Greece and alleged border violations along the frontier between Greece on the one hand and Albania , Bulgaria , and Yugoslavia on the other . Meanwhile , the Greek Government is unable to cope with the situation . The Greek army is small and poorly equipped . It needs supplies and equipment if it is to restore authority to the government throughout Greek territory . Greece must have assistance if it is to become a self supporting and self respecting democracy . The United States must supply this assistance . We have already extended to Greece certain types of relief and economic aid but these are inadequate . There is no other country to which democratic Greece can turn . No other nation is willing and able to provide the necessary support for a democratic Greek government . The British Government , which has been helping Greece , can give no further financial or economic aid after March 31 . Great Britain finds itself under the necessity of reducing or liquidating its commitments in several parts of the world , including Greece . We have considered how the United Nations might assist in this crisis . But the situation is an urgent one requiring immediate action , and the United Nations and its related organizations are not in a position to extend help of the kind that is required . It is important to note that the Greek Government has asked for our aid in utilizing effectively the financial and other assistance we may give to Greece , and in improving its public administration . It is of the utmost importance that we supervise the use of any funds made available to Greece , in such a manner that each dollar spent will count toward making Greece self supporting , and will help to build an economy in which a healthy democracy can flourish . No government is perfect . One of the chief virtues of a democracy , however , is that its defects are always visible and under democratic processes can be pointed out and corrected . The government of Greece is not perfect . Nevertheless it represents 85 percent of the members of the Greek Parliament who were chosen in an election last year . Foreign observers , including 692 Americans , considered this election to be a fair expression of the views of the Greek people . The Greek Government has been operating in an atmosphere of chaos and extremism . It has made mistakes . The extension of aid by this country does not mean that the United States condones everything that the Greek Government has done or will do . We have condemned in the past , and we condemn now , extremist measures of the right or the left . We have in the past advised tolerance , and we advise tolerance now . Greece s neighbor , Turkey , also deserves our attention . The future of Turkey as an independent and economically sound state is clearly no less important to the freedom loving peoples of the world than the future of Greece . The circumstances in which Turkey finds itself today are considerably different from those of Greece . Turkey has been spared the disasters that have beset Greece . And during the war , the United States and Great Britain furnished Turkey with material aid . Nevertheless , Turkey now needs our support . Since the war Turkey has sought additional financial assistance from Great Britain and the United States for the purpose of effecting that modernization necessary for the maintenance of its national integrity . That integrity is essential to the preservation of order in the Middle East . The British Government has informed us that , owing to its own difficulties , it can no longer extend financial or economic aid to Turkey . As in the case of Greece , if Turkey is to have the assistance it needs , the United States must supply it . We are the only country able to provide that help . I am fully aware of the broad implications involved if the United States extends assistance to Greece and Turkey , and I shall discuss these implications with you at this time . One of the primary objectives of the foreign policy of the United States is the creation of conditions in which we and other nations will be able to work out a way of life free from coercion . This was a fundamental issue in the war with Germany and Japan . Our victory was won over countries which sought to impose their will , and their way of life , upon other nations . To ensure the peaceful development of nations , free from coercion , the United States has taken a leading part in establishing the United Nations . The United Nations is designed to make possible lasting freedom and independence for all its members . We shall not realize our objectives , however , unless we are willing to help free peoples to maintain their free institutions and their national integrity against aggressive movements that seek to impose upon them totalitarian regimes . This is no more than a frank recognition that totalitarian regimes imposed upon free peoples , by direct or indirect aggression , undermine the foundations of international peace and hence the security of the United States . The peoples of a number of countries of the world have recently had totalitarian regimes forced upon them against their will . The Government of the United States has made frequent protests against coercion and intimidation , in violation of the Yalta agreement , in Poland , Rumania , and Bulgaria . I must also state that in a number of other countries there have been similar developments . At the present moment in world history nearly every nation must choose between alternative ways of life . The choice is too often not a free one . One way of life is based upon the will of the majority , and is distinguished by free institutions , representative government , free elections , guarantees of individual liberty , freedom of speech and religion , and freedom from political oppression . The second way of life is based upon the will of a minority forcibly imposed upon the majority . It relies upon terror and oppression , a controlled press and radio , fixed elections , and the suppression of personal freedoms . I believe that it must be the policy of the United States to support free peoples who are resisting attempted subjugation by armed minorities or by outside pressures . I believe that we must assist free peoples to work out their own destinies in their own way . I believe that our help should be primarily through economic and financial aid which is essential to economic stability and orderly political processes . The world is not static , and the status quo is not sacred . But we cannot allow changes in the status quo in violation of the Charter of the United Nations by such methods as coercion , or by such subterfuges as political infiltration . In helping free and independent nations to maintain their freedom , the United States will be giving effect to the principles of the Charter of the United Nations . It is necessary only to glance at a map to realize that the survival and integrity of the Greek nation are of grave importance in a much wider situation . If Greece should fall under the control of an armed minority , the effect upon its neighbor , Turkey , would be immediate and serious . Confusion and disorder might well spread throughout the entire Middle East . Moreover , the disappearance of Greece as an independent state would have a profound effect upon those countries in Europe whose peoples are struggling against great difficulties to maintain their freedoms and their independence while they repair the damages of war . It would be an unspeakable tragedy if these countries , which have struggled so long against overwhelming odds , should lose that victory for which they sacrificed so much . Collapse of free institutions and loss of independence would be disastrous not only for them but for the world . Discouragement and possibly failure would quickly be the lot of neighboring peoples striving to maintain their freedom and independence . Should we fail to aid Greece and Turkey in this fateful hour , the effect will be far reaching to the West as well as to the East . We must take immediate and resolute action . I therefore ask the Congress to provide authority for assistance to Greece and Turkey in the amount of 400 , 000 , 000 for the period ending June 30 , 1948 . In requesting these funds , I have taken into consideration the maximum amount of relief assistance which would be furnished to Greece out of the 350 , 000 , 000 which I recently requested that the Congress authorize for the prevention of starvation and suffering in countries devastated by the war . In addition to funds , I ask the Congress to authorize the detail of American civilian and military personnel to Greece and Turkey , at the request of those countries , to assist in the tasks of reconstruction , and for the purpose of supervising the use of such financial and material assistance as may be furnished . I recommend that authority also be provided for the instruction and raining of selected Greek and Turkish personnel . Finally , I ask that the Congress provide authority which will permit the speediest and most effective use , in terms of needed commodities , supplies , and equipment , of such funds as may be authorized . If further funds , or further authority , should be needed for the purposes indicated in this message , I shall not hesitate to bring the situation before the Congress . On this subject the Executive and Legislative branches of the Government must work together . This is a serious course upon which we embark . I would not recommend it except that the alternative is much more serious . The United States contributed 341 , 000 , 000 , 000 toward winning World War IThis is an investment in world freedom and world peace . The assistance that I am recommending for Greece and Turkey amounts to little more than 1 10 of 1 percent of this investment . It is only common sense that we should safeguard this investment and make sure that it was not in vain . The seeds of totalitarian regimes are nurtured by misery and want . They spread and grow in the evil soil of poverty and strife . They reach their full growth when the hope of a people for a better life has died . We must keep that hope alive . The free peoples of the world look to us for support in maintaining their freedoms . If we falter in our leadership , we may endanger the peace of the world and we shall surely endanger the welfare of this Nation . Great responsibilities have been placed upon us by the swift movement of events . I am confident that the Congress will face these responsibilities squarely .<speech_sep>The thoughts and hopes of all America indeed of all the civilized world are centered tonight on the battleship Missouri . There on that small piece of American soil anchored in Tokyo Harbor the Japanese have just officially laid down their arms . They have signed terms of unconditional surrender . Four years ago , the thoughts and fears of the whole civilized world were centered on another piece of American soil Pearl Harbor . The mighty threat to civilization which began there is now laid at rest . It was a long road to Tokyo and a bloody one . We shall not forget Pearl Harbor . The Japanese militarists will not forget the United States . Missouri . The evil done by the Japanese war lords can never be repaired or forgotten . But their power to destroy and kill has been taken from them . Their armies and what is left of their Navy are now impotent . To all of us there comes first a sense of gratitude to Almighty God who sustained us and our Allies in the dark days of grave danger , who made us to grow from weakness into the strongest fighting force in history , and who has now seen us overcome the forces of tyranny that sought to destroy His civilization . God grant that in our pride of the hour , we may not forget the hard tasks that are still before us that we may approach these with the same courage , zeal , and patience with which we faced the trials and problems of the past four years . Our first thoughts , of course thoughts of gratefulness and deep obligation go out to those of our loved ones who have been killed or maimed in this terrible war . On land and sea and in the air , American men and women have given their lives so that this day of ultimate victory might come and assure the survival of a civilized world . No victory can make good their loss . We think of those whom death in this war has hurt , taking from them fathers , husbands , sons , brothers , and sisters whom they loved . No victory can bring back the faces they longed to see . Only the knowledge that the victory , which these sacrifices have made possible , will be wisely used , can give them any comfort . It is our responsibility ours , the living to see to it that this victory shall be a monument worthy of the dead who died to win it . We think of all the millions of men and women in our armed forces and merchant marine all over the world who , after years of sacrifice and hardship and peril , have been spared by Providence from harm . We think of all the men and women and children who during these years have carried on at home , in lonesomeness and anxiety and fear . Our thoughts go out to the millions of American workers and businessmen , to our farmers and miners to all those who have built up this country s fighting strength , and who have shipped to our Allies the means to resist and overcome the enemy . Our thoughts go out to our civil servants and to the thousands of Americans who , at personal sacrifice , have come to serve in our Government during these trying years to the members of the Selective Service boards and ration boards to the civilian defense and Red Cross workers to the men and women in the USO and in the entertainment world to all those who have helped in this cooperative struggle to preserve liberty and decency in the world . We think of our departed gallant leader , Franklin Roosevelt , defender of democracy , architect of world peace and cooperation . And our thoughts go out to our gallant Allies in this war to those who resisted the invaders to those who were not strong enough to hold out , but who , nevertheless , kept the fires of resistance alive within the souls of their people to those who stood up against great odds and held the line , until the United Nations together were able to supply the arms and the men with which to overcome the forces of evil . This is a victory of more than arms alone . This is a victory of liberty over tyranny . From our war plants rolled the tanks and planes which blasted their way to the heart of our enemies from our shipyards sprang the ships which bridged all the oceans of the world for our weapons and supplies from our farms came the food and fiber for our armies and navies and for our Allies in all the corners of the earth from our mines and factories came the raw materials and the finished products which gave us the equipment to overcome our enemies . But back of it all were the will and spirit and determination of a free people who know what freedom is , and who know that it is worth whatever price they had to pay to preserve it . It was the spirit of liberty which gave us our armed strength and which made our men invincible in battle . We now know that that spirit of liberty , the freedom of the individual , and the personal dignity of man , are the strongest and toughest and most enduring forces in all the world . And so on V J Day we take renewed faith and pride in our own way of life . We have had our day of rejoicing over this victory . We have had our day of prayer and devotion . Now let us set aside V J Day as one of renewed consecration to the principles which have made us the strongest nation on earth and which , in this war , we have striven so mightily to preserve . Those principles provide the faith , the hope , and the opportunity which help men to improve themselves and their lot . Liberty does not make all men perfect nor all society secure . But it has provided more solid progress and happiness and decency for more people than any other philosophy of government in history . And this day has shown again that it provides the greatest strength and the greatest power which man has ever reached . We know that under it we can meet the hard problems of peace which have come upon us . A free people with free Allies , who can develop an atomic bomb , can use the same skill and energy and determination to overcome all the difficulties ahead . Victory always has its burdens and its responsibilities as well as its rejoicing . But we face the future and all its dangers with great confidence and great hope . America can build for itself a future of employment and security . Together with the United Nations , it can build a world of peace rounded on justice , fair dealing , and tolerance . As President of the United States , I proclaim Sunday , September the second , 1945 , to be V J Day the day of formal surrender by Japan . It is not yet the day for the formal proclamation of the end of the war nor of the cessation of hostilities . But it is a day which we Americans shall always remember as a day of retribution as we remember that other day , the day of infamy . From this day we move forward . We move toward a new era of security at home . With the other United Nations we move toward a new and better world of cooperation , of peace and international good will and cooperation . God s help has brought us to this day of victory . With His help we will attain that peace and prosperity for ourselves and all the world in the years ahead .<speech_sep>