William McKinley , , and Others , Committee , etc . GENTLEMEN I now avail myself of the first period of relief from public duties to respond to the notification which you brought to me on June 20 of my nomination for the office of President of the United States by the Republican national convention recently held at Minneapolis . I accept the nomination , and am grateful for the approval expressed by the convention of the acts of the administration . I have endeavored without wavering or weariness , so far as the direction of public affairs was committed to me , to carry out the pledges made to the people in 1888 . If the policies of the administration have not been distinctively and progressively American and Republican policies , the fault has not been in the purpose , but in the execution . I shall speak frankly of the legislation of Congress and of the work of the executive departments , for the credit of any successes that have been attained is in such measure due to others Senators and Representatives and to the efficient heads of the several executive departments that I may do so without impropriety . A vote of want of confidence is asked by our adversaries , and this challenge to a review of what has been done we promptly and gladly accept . The great work of the Fifty first Congress has been subjected to the revision of a Democratic House of Representatives and the acts of the executive department to its scrutiny and investigation . A Democratic national administration was succeeded by a Republican administration , and the freshness of the events gives unusual facilities for fair comparison and judgment . There has seldom been a time , I think , when a change from the declared policies of the Republican party to the declared policies of the Democratic party involved such serious results to the business interests of the country . A brief review of what has been done and of what the Democratic party proposes to undo will justify this opinion . The Republican party , during the civil war , devised a national currency , consisting of United States notes , issued and redeemable by the Government , and of national bank notes , based upon the security of United States bonds . A tax was levied upon the issues of State banks , and the intended result , that all such issues should be withdrawn , was realized . There are men among us now who never saw a State bank note . The notes furnished directly or indirectly by the United States have been the only and the safe and acceptable paper currency of the people . Bank failures have brought no fright , delay , or loss to the bill holders . The note of an insolvent bank is as good and as current as a Treasury note , for the credit of the United States is behind it . Our money is all national money I might almost say international , for these bills are not only equally and indiscriminately accepted at par in all the States , but in some foreign countries . The Democratic party , if intrusted with the control of the Government , is now pledged to repeal the tax on State bank issues , with a view to putting into circulation again , under such diverse legislation as the States may adopt , a flood of local bank issues . Only those who , in the years before the war , experienced the inconvenience and losses attendant upon the use of such money , can appreciate what a return to that system involves . The denomination of a bill was then often no indication of its value . The bank detector of yesterday was not a safe guide to day as to credit or values . Merchants deposited several times during the day , lest the hour of bank closing should show a depreciation of the money taken in the morning . The traveler could not use in a journey to the East the issues of the most solvent banks of the West and in consequence a money changer 39 s office was the familiar neighbor of the ticket office and the lunch counter . The farmer and the laborer found the money received for their products or their labor depreciated when they came to make their purchases , and the whole business of the country was hindered and burdened . Changes may become necessary , but a national system of currency , safe and acceptable throughout the whole country , is the good fruit of bitter experiences , and I am sure our people will not consent to the reactionary proposal made by the Democratic party . Few subjects have elicited more discussion or excited more general interest than that of a recovery by the United States of its appropriate share of the ocean carrying trade . This subject touches not only our pockets but our national pride . Practically all the freights for transporting to Europe the enormous annual supplies of provisions furnished by this country and for the large return of manufactured products have for many years been paid to foreign owners . Thousands of immigrants annually seeking homes under our flag have been denied the sight of it until they entered Sandy Hook , while increasing thousands of American citizens , bent on European travel , have each year stepped into a foreign jurisdiction at the New York docks . The merchandise balance of trade which the Treasury books show is largely reduced by the annual tribute which we pay for freight and passage moneys . The great ships the fastest upon the sea which are now in peace profiting by our trade , are , in a secondary sense , warships of their respective governments , and in time of war would , under existing contracts with those governments , speedily take on the guns for which their decks are already prepared and enter with terrible efficiency upon the work of destroying our commerce . The undisputed fact is that the great steamship lines of Europe were built up and are now in part sustained by direct or indirect government aid , the latter taking the form of liberal pay for carrying the mails or of an annual bonus given in consideration of agreements to construct the ships so as to adapt them for carrying an armament and to turn them over to the government on demand upon specific terms . It was plain to every intelligent American that if the United States would have such lines a similar policy must be entered upon . The Fifty first Congress enacted such a law , and under its beneficent influence sixteen American steamships of an aggregate tonnage of 57 , 400 tons and costing 7 , 400 , 000 have been built or contracted to be built in American shipyards . In addition to this it is now practically certain that we shall soon have under the American flag one of the finest steamship lines sailing out of New York for any European port . This contract will result in the construction in American yards of four new passenger steamships of 10 , 000 tons each , costing about 8 , 000 , 000 , and will add to our naval reserve six steamships , the fastest upon the sea . A special interest has been taken by me in the establishment of lines from our South Atlantic and Gulf ports and , though my expectations have not yet been realized , attention has been called to the advantages possessed by these ports , and when their people are more fully alive to their interests , I do not doubt that they will be able to secure the capital needed to enable them to profit by their great natural advantages . The Democratic party has found no place in its platform for any reference to this subject , and has shown its hostility to the general policy by refusing to expend an appropriation made during the last administration for ocean mail contracts with American lines . The patriotic people , the workmen in our shops , the capitalists seeking new enterprises , must decide whether the great ships owned by Americans which have sought American registry shall again humbly ask a place in the English naval reserve the great ships now on the designers 39 tables go to foreign shops for construction , and the United States lose the now brightening opportunity of recovering a place commensurate with its wealth , the skill of its constructors and the courage of its sailors , in the carrying trade of all the seas . Another related measure , as furnishing an increased ocean traffic for our ships , and of great and permanent benefit to the farmers and manufacturers as well , is the reciprocity policy declared by section 3 of the tariff act of 1890 , and now in practical operation with five of the nations of Central and South America , San Domingo , the Spanish and British West India Islands , and with Germany and Austria , under special trade arrangements with each . The removal of the duty upon sugar and the continuance of coffee and tea upon the free list , while giving great relief to our people by cheapening articles used increasingly in every household , was also of such enormous advantage to the countries exporting these articles as to suggest that in consideration thereof reciprocal favors should be shown in their tariffs to articles exported by us to their markets . Great credit is due to Elaine for the vigor with which he pressed this view upon the country . We have only begun to realize the benefit of these trade arrangements . The work of creating new agencies and of adapting our goods to new markets has necessarily taken time , but the results already attained are such , I am sure , as to establish in popular favor the policy of reciprocal trade , based upon the free importation of such articles as do not injuriously compete with the products of our own farms , mines , or factories , in exchange for the free or favored introduction of our products into other countries . The obvious efficacy of this policy in increasing the foreign trade of the United States at once attracted the alarmed attention of European trade journals and boards of trade . The British board of trade has presented to that government a memorial asking for the appointment of a commission to consider the best means of counteracting what is called the commercial crusade of the United States . At a meeting held in March last of the Associated Chambers of Commerce of Great Britain , the president reported that the exports from Great Britain to the Latin American countries during the last year had decreased 23 , 750 , 000 , and that this was not due to temporary causes , but directly to the reciprocity policy of the United States . Germany and France have also shown their startled appreciation of the fact that a new and vigorous contestant has appeared in the battle of the markets and has already secured important advantages . The most convincing evidence of the tremendous commercial strength of our position is found in the fact that Great Britain and Spain have found it necessary to make reciprocal trade agreements with ns for their West India colonies , and that Germany and Austria have given us important concessions in exchange for the continued free importation of their beet sugar . A few details only as to the increase of our trade can be given here . Taking all the countries with which such arrangements have been made , our trade to June 30 , 1892 , had increased 23 . 78 per cent with Brazil the increase was nearly 11 per cent with Cuba , during the first ten months , our exports increased 5 , 702 , 193 , or 54 . 86 per cent , and with Porto Rico 590 , 959 , or 34 per cent . The liberal participation of our farmers in the benefits of this policy is shown by the following report from our consul general at Havana , under date of July 26 last During the first half year of 1891 Havana received 140 , 056 bags of flour from Spain and other ports of the island about an equal amount , or , approximately , 280 , 112 bags . During the same period Havana received 13 , 9 6 bags of American flour and other ports approximately an equal amount , making about 28 , 000 bags . But for the first half of this year Spain has sent less than 1 , 000 bags to the whole island , and the United States has sent to Havana alone 168 , 487 bags and about an equal amount to other ports of the island , making , approximately , 337 , 000 for the first half of 1892 . Partly by reason of the reciprocal trade agreement , but more largely by reason of the removal of the sanitary restrictions upon American pork , our export of pork products to Germany increased during the ten months ending June 30 last 2 , 025 , 074 , or about 32 per cent . The British Trade Journal , of London , in a recent issue , speaking of the increase of American coal exports and of the falling off of the English coal exports to Cuba , says It is another case of American competition . The United States now supply Cuba with about 150 , 000 tons of coal annually , and there is every prospect of this trade increasing as the forests of the island become exhausted and the use of steam machinery on the sugar estates is developed . Alabama coal , especially , is securing a reputation in the Spanish West Indies , and the river and rail improvements of the Southern States will undoubtedly create an important Gulf trade . The new reciprocity policy by which the United States are enabled to import Cuban sugar will , of course , assist the American coal exporters even more effectively than the new lines of railway . The Democratic platform promises a repeal of the tariff law containing this provision , and especially denounces as a sham reciprocity that section of the law under which these trade arrangements have been made . If no other issue were involved in the campaign this alone would give it momentous importance . Are the farmers of the great grain growing States willing to surrender these new , large , and increasing markets for their surplus Are we to have nothing in exchange for the free importation of sugar and coffee and at the same time to destroy the sugar planters of the South and the beet sugar industry of the Northwest and of the Pacific coast , or are we to have the taxed sugar and coffee , which a tariff for revenue only necessarily involves , with the added loss of the new markets which have been opened As I have shown , our own commercial rivals in Europe do not regard this reciprocity policy as a sham , but as a serious threat to a trade supremacy they have long enjoyed . They would rejoice and if prudence did not restrain would illuminate their depressed manufacturing cities over the news that the United States had abandoned its system of protection and reciprocity . They see very clearly that restriction of American production and trade and a corresponding increase of European production and trade would follow , and I will not believe that what is so plain to them can be hidden from our own people . The declaration of the platform in favor of the American doctrine of protection meets my most hearty approval . The convention did not adopt a schedule , but a principle that is to control all tariff schedules . There may be differences of opinion among protectionists as to the rate upon particular articles necessary to effect an equalization between wages abroad and at home . In some not remote national campaigns the issue has been , or , more correctly , has been made to appear to be between a high and a low protective tariff , both parties expressing some solicitous regard for the wages of our working people and for the prosperity of our domestic industries . But , under a more courageous leadership , the Democratic party has now practically declared that if given power it will enact a tariff law without any regard to its effect upon wages or upon the capital invested in our great industries . The majority report of the committee on platform to the Democratic national convention at Chicago contained this clause That when custom house taxation is levied upon articles of any kind produced in this country the difference between the cost Of labor here and labor abroad , when such a difference exists , fully measures any possible benefits to labor , and the enormous additional impositions of the existing tariff fall with crushing force upon our farmers and working men . Here we have a distinct admission of the Republican contention that American workmen are advantaged by a tariff rate equal to the difference between home and foreign wages , and a declaration only against the alleged additional impositions of the existing tariff law . Again , this majority report further declared But in making a reduction in taxes , it is not proposed to injure any domestic industries , but rather to promote their healthy growth . Moreover , many industries have come to rely upon legislation for successful continuance , so that any change of law must be at every step regardful of the labor and the capital thus involved . Here we have an admission that many of our industries depend upon protective duties for their successful continuance , and a declaration that tariff changes should be regardful of the workmen in such industries and of the invested capital . The overwhelming rejection of these propositions , which had before received the sanction of Democratic national conventions , was not more indicative of the new and more courageous leadership to which the party has now committed itself than the substitute which was adopted . This substitute declares that protective duties are unconstitutional high protection , low protection all unconstitutional . A Democratic Congress holding this view can not enact , nor a Democratic President approve , any tariff schedule the purpose or effect of which is to limit importations or to give any advantage to an American workman or producer . A bounty might , I judge , be given to the importer under this view of the Constitution , in order to increase importations , and so the revenue for revenue only is the limitation . Reciprocity , of course , falls under this denunciation , for its object and effect are not revenue , but the promotion of commercial exchanges , the profits of which go wholly to our producers . This destructive , un American doctrine was not held or taught by the historic Democratic statesmen whose fame as American patriots has reached this generation certainly not by Jefferson or Jackson . This mad crusade against American shops , the bitter epithets applied to American manufacturers , the persistent disbelief of every report of the opening of a tin plate mill or of an increase of our foreign trade by reciprocity are as surprising as they are discreditable . There is not a thoughtful business man in the country who does not know that the enactment into law of the declaration of the Chicago convention upon the subject of the tariff would at once plunge the country into a business convulsion such as it has never seen and there is not a thoughtful workingman who does not know that it would at once enormously reduce the amount of work to be done in this country by the increase of importations that would follow and necessitate a reduction of his wages to the European standard . If any one suggests that this radical policy will not be executed if the Democratic party attains power , what shall be thought of a party that is capable of thus trifling with great interests The threat of such legislation would be only less hurtful than the fact . A distinguished Democrat rightly described this movement as a challenge to the protected industries to a fight of extermination , and another such rightly expressed the logic of the situation when he interpreted the Chicago platform to be an invitation to all Democrats holding even the most moderate protection views to go into the Republican party . And now a few words in regard to the existing tariff law . We are fortunately able to judge of its influence upon production and prices by the market reports . The day of the prophet of calamity has been succeeded by that of the trade reporter . An examination into the effect of the law upon the prices of protected products and of the cost of such articles as enter into the living of people of small means has been made by a Senate committee composed of leading Senators of both parties , with the aid of the best statisticians , and the report , signed by all the members of the committee , has been given to the public . No such wide and careful inquiry has ever before been made . These facts appear from the report First . The cost of articles entering into the use of those earning less than 1 , 000 per annum has decreased up to May , 1892 , 3 . 4 per cent , while in farm products there has been an increase in prices , owing in part to an increased foreign demand and the opening of new markets . In England , during the same period , the cost of living increased 1 . 9 per cent . Tested by their power to purchase articles of necessity the earnings of our working people have never been as great as they are now . Second . There has been an average advance in the rate of wages of . 75 of 1 per cent . Third . There has been an advance in the price of all farm products of 18 . 67 per cent , and of all cereals 33 . 59 per cent . The ninth annual report of the chief of the bureau of labor statistics of the State of New York , a Democratic officer , very recently issued , strongly corroborates as to that State the facts found by the Senate committee . His extended inquiry shows that in the year immediately following the passage of the tariff act of 1890 the aggregate sum paid in wages in that State was 6 , 377 , 925 in excess , and the aggregate production 31 , 315 , 130111 excess of the preceding year . In view of this showing of an increase in wages , of a reduction in the cost of articles of common necessity and of a marked advance in the prices of agricultural products , it is plain that this tariff law has not imposed burdens , but has conferred benefits upon the farmer and the workingman . Some special effects of the act should be noticed . It was a courageous attempt to rid our people of a long maintained foreign monopoly in the production of tin plate , pearl buttons , silk plush , linens , lace , etc . Once or twice in our history the production of tin plate had been attempted , and the prices obtained by the Welsh makers would have enabled our makers to produce it at a profit . But the Welsh makers at once cut prices to a point that drove the American beginners out of the business , and , when this was accomplished , again made their own prices . A correspondent of the Industrial World , the official organ of the Welsh tin plate workers , published at Swansea , in the issue of June 10 , 1892 , advises a new trial of these methods . He says Do not be deceived . The victory of the Republicans at the polls means the retention of the McKinley bill and means the rapidly accruing loss of the 80 per cent of the export American trade . Had there been no Democratic victory in 1890 the spread of the tin plate manufacture in the United States would have been both rapid and bona fide . It is not yet too late to do something to reduce the price of plates . Put them down to 11 shillings per box of 100 , 14 by 20 , full weight basis . Let the workmen lake half pay for a few months and turn out more . Then let the masters forego profits for the same time . And again that paper says It is clearly the interest of both employer and workmen to produce tin plates , tariff or no tariff , at a price that will drive all competitors from the field . But , in spite of the doubts raised by the elections of 1890 and of the machinations of foreign producers to maintain their monopoly , the tin plate industry has been established in the United States , and the alliance between the Welsh producers and the Democratic party for its destruction will not succeed . The official returns to the Treasury Department of the production of tin and terne plates in the United States during the last fiscal year show a total production of 13 , 240 , 830 pounds , and a comparison of the first quarter , 826 , 922 pounds , with the last , 8 , 000 , 000 pounds , shows the rapid development of the industry . Over 5 , 000 , 000 pounds during the last quarter were made from American black plates , the remainder from foreign plates . Ayer , the Treasury agent in charge , estimates , as the result of careful inquiry , that the production of the current year will be 100 , 000 , 000 pounds , and that by the end of the year our production will be at the rate of 200 , 000 , 000 pounds per annum . Another industry that has been practically created by the McKinley bill is the making of pearl buttons . Few articles coming to us from abroad were so distinctly the product of starvation wages . But without unduly extending this letter I can not follow in detail the influences of the tariff law of 1890 . It has transplanted several important industries and established them here , and has revived or enlarged all others . The act gives to the miners protection against foreign silver bearing lead ores , the free introduction of which threatened the great mining industries of the Rocky Mountain States and to the wool growers protection for their fleeces and flocks , which has saved them from a further and disastrous decline . The House of Representatives , at its last session , passed bills placing these ores and wool upon the free list . The people of the West will know how destructive to their prosperity these measures would be . This tariff law has given employment to many thousands of American men and women and will each year give employment to increasing thousands . Its repeal would throw thousands out of employment and give work to others only at reduced wages . The appeals of the free trader to the workingman are largely addressed to his prejudices or to his passions and not infrequently are pronouncedly communistic . The new Democratic leadership rages at the employer and seeks to communicate his rage to the employee . I greatly regret that all employers of labor are not just and considerate , and that capital sometimes takes too large a share of the profits . But I do not see that these evils will be ameliorated by a tariff policy , the first necessary effect of which is a severe wage cut , and the second a large diminution of the aggregate amount of work to be done in this country . If the injustice of his employer tempts the workman to strike back he should be very sure that his blow does not fall upon his own head or upon his wife and children . The workmen in our great industries are as a body remarkably intelligent and are lovers of home and country . They may be roused by injustice , or what seems to them to be such , or be led for the moment by others into acts of passion but they will settle the tariff contest in the calm light of their November firesides and with sole reference to the prosperity of the country of which they are citizens and of the homes they have founded for their wives and children . No intelligent advocate of a protective tariff claims that it is able of itself to maintain a uniform rate of wages without regard to fluctuations in the supply of , and demand for the products of labor . But it is confidently claimed that protective duties strongly tend to hold up wages , and are the only barrier against a reduction to the European scale . The Southern States have had a liberal participation in the benefits of the tariff law , and though their representatives have generally opposed the protection policy , I rejoice that their sugar , rice , coal , ores , iron , fruits , cotton cloths , and other products have not been left to the fate which the votes of their representatives would have brought upon them . In the construction of the Nicaragua Canal , in the new trade with South and Central America , in the establishment of American steamship lines , these States have also special interests , and all these interests will not always consent to be without representation at Washington . Shrewdly , but not quite fairly , our adversaries speak only of the increased duty imposed upon tin , pearl buttons and other articles by the McKinley bill , and omit altogether any reference to the great and beneficial enlargement of the free list . During the last fiscal year 458 , 000 , 772 worth of merchandise , or 55 . 35 per cent of our total importations , came in free the largest per centage in our history while in 1889 the per cent of free importations was only 34 . 42 The placing of sugar upon the free list has saved to the consumer in duties in fifteen months , after paying the bounties provided for , 87 , 000 , 000 . This relief has been substantially felt in even 39 household upon every Saturday 39 s purchase of the workingman . per cent . One of the favorite arguments against a protective tariff is that it shuts us out from a participation in what is called with swelling emphasis the markets of the world . If this view is not a false one , how does it happen that our commercial competitors are not able to bear with more serenity our supposed surrender to them of the markets of the world And how does it happen that the partial loss of our market closes foreign tin plate mills and plush factories that still have all other markets Our natural advantages , our protective tariff , and the reciprocity policy make it possible for us to have a large participation in the markets of the world , without opening our own to a competition that would destroy the comfort and independence of our people . The resolution of the convention in favor of bimetalism declares , I think , the true and necessary conditions of a movement that has , upon these lines , my cordial adherence and support . I am thoroughly convinced that the free coinage of silver at such a ratio to gold as will maintain the equality in their commercial uses of the two coined dollars would conduce to the prosperity of all the great producing and commercial nations of the world . The one essential condition is that these dollars shall have and retain an equal acceptability and value in all commercial transactions . They are not only a medium of exchange , but a measure of values , and when two unequal measures are called in law by the same name commerce is unsettled and confused and the unwary and ignorant are cheated . Dollars of unequal commercial value will not circulate together . The better dollar is withdrawn and becomes merchandise . The true interest of all our people , and especially of the farmers and working people , who can not closely observe the money market , is that every dollar , paper or coin , issued or authorized by the Government , shall at all times and in all its uses be the exact equivalent , not only in debt paying , but in purchasing power of any other dollar . I am quite sure that if we should now act upon this subject independently of other nations we would greatly promote their interests and injure our own . The monetary conditions in Europe within the last two years have , I think , tended very much to develop a sentiment in favor of a larger use of silver , and I was much pleased and encouraged by the cordiality , promptness , and unanimity with which the invitation of this Government for an international conference upon this subject was accepted by all the powers . We may not only hope for , but expect highly beneficial results from this conference , which will now soon assemble . When the result of the conference is known we shall then be able intelligently to readjust our financial legislation to any new conditions . In my last annual message to Congress I said I must yet entertain the hope that it is possible to secure a calm , patriotic consideration of such Constitutional or statutory changes as may be necessary to secure the choice of the officers of the Government to the people by fair apportionments and free elections . I believe it would be possible to constitute a commission , nonpartisan in its membership and composed of patriotic , wise , and impartial men , to whom a consideration of the questions of the evils connected with our elections systems and methods might be committed with a good prospect of securing unanimity in some plan for removing or mitigating those evils . The Constitution would permit the selection of the commission to be vested in the Supreme Court if that method would give the best guaranty of impartiality . This commission should be charged with the duty of inquiring into the whole subject of the law of elections as related to the choice of officers of the National Government , with a view to securing to every elector a free and unmolested exercise of the suffrage and as near an approach to an equality of value in each ballot cast as is attainable . The demand that the limitations of suffrage shall be found in the law , and only there , is a just demand , and no just man should resent or resist it . It seemed to me that an appeal to our people to consider the question of readjusting our legislation upon absolutely fair non partisan lines might find some effective response . Many times I have had occasion to say that laws and election methods designed to give unfair advantages to the party making them would some time be used to perpetuate in power a faction of a party against the will of a majority of the people . Of this we seem to have an illustration in the recent State election in Alabama . There was no Republican ticket in the field . The contest was between white Democrats . The Kolb party say they were refused the representation guaranteed by law upon the election boards , and that when the courts by mandamus attempted to right this wrong , an appeal that could not be heard until after the election made the writs ineffectual . Ballot boxes were thrown out for alleged irregularities , or destroyed , and it is asserted on behalf of one half , at least , of the white voters of Alabama that the officers to whom certificates have been given were not honestly elected . There is no security for the personal or political rights of any man in a community where any other man is deprived of his personal or political rights . The power of the States over the question of the qualification of electors is ample to protect them against the dangers of an ignorant or depraved suffrage , and the demand that every man found to be qualified under the law shall be made secure in the right to cast a free ballot , and to have that ballot honestly counted , can not be abated . Our old Republican battle cry , A free ballot and a fair count , comes back to us not only from Alabama but from other States , and from men who , differing with us widely in opinions , have come to see that parties and political debate are but a mockery if , when the debate is ended , the judgment of honest majorities is to be reversed by ballot box frauds and tally sheet manipulations in the interest of the party or party faction in power . These new political movements in the States and the recent decisions of some of the State courts against unfair apportionment laws , encourage the hope that the arbitrary and partisan election laws and practices which have prevailed may be corrected by the States , the laws made equal and nonpartisan , and the elections free and honest . The Republican party would rejoice at such a solution , as a healthy and patriotic local sentiment is the best assurance of free and honest elections . I shall again urge upon Congress that provision be made for the appointment of a nonpartisan commission to consider the subject of apportionments and elections , in their relation to the choice of Federal officers . The civil service system has been extended and law enforced with vigor and impartiality . There has been no partisan juggling with the law in any of the departments or bureaus , as had before happened , but appointments to the classified service have been made impartially from the eligible lists . The system now in force in all the departments has for the first time placed promotions strictly upon the basis of merit , as ascertained by a daily record , and the efficiency of the force thereby greatly increased . The approval so heartily given by the convention to all those agencies which contribute to the education of the children of the land , was worthily bestowed and meets my hearty approval , as does also the declaration as to liberty of thought and conscience , and the separation of church and state . The safety of the Republic is an intelligent citizenship , and the increased interest manifested in the States in education , the cheerfulness with which the necessary taxes are paid by all classes , and the renewed interest manifested by the children in the national flag , are hopeful indications that the coming generation will direct public affairs with increased prudence and patriotism . Our interest in free public schools open to all children of suitable age is supreme , and our care for them will be jealous and constant . The public school system , however , was not intended to restrain the natural right of the parent , after contributing to the public school fund , to choose other educational agencies for his children . I favored aid by the General Government to the public schools , with a special view to the necessities of some of the Southern States . But it is gratifying to notice that many of these States are , with commendable liberality , developing their school systems and increasing their school revenues , to the great advantage of the children of both races . The considerate attention of the farmers of the whole country is invited to the work done through the State and Agricultural Departments in the interest of agriculture . Our pork products had for ten years been not only excluded by the great continental nations of Europe , but their value discredited by the reasons given for this exclusion . All previous efforts to secure the removal of these restrictions had failed , but the wise legislation of the Fifty first Congress , providing for the inspection and official certification of our meats , and giving to the President power to forbid the introduction into this country of selected products of such countries as should continue to refuse our inspected meats , enabled us to open all the markets of Europe to our pork products . The result has been not only to sustain prices by providing new markets for our surplus , but to add fifty cents per one hundred pounds to the market value of the inspected meats . Under the reciprocity agreements special favors have been secured for agricultural products , and our exports of such products have been greatly increased , with a sure prospect of a further and rapid increase . The Agricultural Department has maintained in Europe an agent whose special duty it is to introduce there the various preparations of corn as articles of food , and his work has been very successful . The Department has also sent skilled veterinarians to Liverpool to examine , in connection with the British veterinarians , the live cattle from the United States landed at that port , and the result , in connection with the sanitary methods adopted at home , has been that we hear no more about our cattle being infected with pleuro pneumonia . A judicious system of quarantine lines has prevented the infection of Northern cattle with the Texas fever . The tariff bill of 1890 gives better protection to farm products subject to foreign competition than they ever had before , and the home markets for such products have been enlarged by the establishment of new industries and the development of others . We may confidently submit to the intelligent and candid judgment of the American farmer whether in any corresponding period so much has been done to promote his interests , and whether , in a continuance and extension of these methods , there is not a better prospect offered to him than in the invitation of the Democratic party to give our home market to foreign manufacturers and to abandon the reciprocity policy , and better also than the radical and untried methods of relief proposed by other parties which are soliciting his support . I have often expressed my strong conviction of the value of the Nicaragua Ship Canal to our commerce and to our Navy . The project is not one of convenience , but of necessity . It is quite possible , I believe , if the United States will support the enterprise , to secure the speedy completion of the canal without taxing the Treasury for any direct contribution , and at the same time to secure to the United States that influence in its management which is imperative . It has been the purpose of the administration to make its foreign policy not a matter of partisan politics , but of patriotism and national honor , and I have very great gratification in being able to state that the Democratic members of the Committees of Foreign Affairs responded in a true American spirit . I have not hesitated to consult freely with them about the most confidential and delicate affairs , and here frankly confess my obligation for needed cooperation . They did not regard a patient but firm insistence upon American rights and upon immunity from insult and injury for our citizens and sailors in foreign ports as a policy of irritation and bluster . They did not believe , as some others seem to believe , that to be a Democrat one must take the foreign side of every international question if a Republican administration is conducting the American side . I do not believe that a tame submission to insult and outrage by any nation at the hands of another can ever form the basis of a lasting friendship the necessary element of mutual respect will be wanting . The Chilean incident , now so happily and honorably adjusted , will , I do not doubt , place our relations with that brave people upon a more friendly basis than ever before . This already appears in the agreement since negotiated by Egan for the settlement by a commission of the long unsettled claims between the two Governments . The work of Egan has been highly advantageous to the United States . The confidence which I refused to withdraw from him has been abundantly justified . In our relations with the great European powers the rights of the United States and of our citizens have been insisted upon with firmness . The strength of our cause and not the strength of our adversary has given tone to our correspondence . The Samoan question and the Bering Sea question , which came over from the preceding administration , have been the one settled and the other submitted to arbitration upon a fair basis . Never before , I think , in a like period have so many important treaties and commercial agreements been concluded and never before , I am sure , have the honor and influence , national and commercial , of the United States been held in higher estimation in both hemispheres . The Union soldiers and sailors are now veterans of time as well as of war . The parallels of age have approached close to the citadels of life and the end , for each , of a brave and honorable struggle is not remote . Increasing infirmity and years give the minor tones of sadness and pathos to the mighty appeal of service and suffering . The ear that does not listen with sympathy and the heart that does not respond with generosity are the ear and heart of an alien and not of an American . Now , soon again the surviving veterans are to parade upon the great avenue of the national capital and every tribute of honor and love should attend the march . A comrade in the column of the victors 39 parade in 1865 , I am not less a comrade now . I have used every suitable occasion to urge upon the people of all sections the consideration that no good cause can be promoted upon the lines of lawlessness . Mobs do not discriminate , and the punishments inflicted by them have no repressive or salutary influence . On the contrary , they beget revenges and perpetuate feuds . It is especially the duty of the educated and influential to see that the weak and ignorant when accused of crime are fairly tried before lawful tribunals . The moral sentiment of the country should be aroused and brought to bear for the suppression of these offenses against the law and social order . The necessity for a careful discrimination among the emigrants seeking our shores becomes every day more apparent . We do not want and should not receive those who by reason of bad character or habits are not wanted at home . The industrious and self respecting , the lovers of law and liberty , should be discriminated from the pauper , the criminal and the anarchist , who come only to burden and disturb our communities . Every effort has been made to enforce the laws and some convictions have been secured under the contract labor law . The general condition of our country is one of great prosperity . The blessing of God has rested upon our fields and upon our people . The annual value of our foreign commerce has increased more than 400 , 000 , 000 over the average for the preceding ten years , and more than 210 , 000 , 000 over 1890 , the last year unaffected by the new tariff . Our exports in 1892 exceeded those of 1890 by more than 172 , 000 , 000 , and the annual average for ten years by 265 , 000 , 000 . Our exports of breadstuffs increased over those of 1890 more than 144 , 000 , 000 of provisions over 4 , 000 , 000 , and of manufactures over 8 , 000 , 000 . The merchandise balance of trade in our favor in 1892 was 202 , 944 , 342 . No other nation can match the commercial progress which these figures disclose . Our compassion may well go out to those whose party necessities and habits still compel them to declare that our people are oppressed and our trade restricted by a protective tariff . It is not possible for me to refer , even in the briefest way , to many of the topics presented in the resolutions adopted by the convention . Upon all that have not been discussed I have before publicly expressed my views . A change in the personnel of a national administration is of comparatively little moment . If those exercising public functions are able , honest , diligent , and faithful , others possessing all these qualities may be found to take their places . But changes in the laws and administrative policies are of great moment . When public affairs have been given a direction and business has adjusted itself to these lines , any sudden change involves a stoppage and new business adjustments . If the change of direction is so radical as to bring the commercial turn table into use the business changes involved are not readjustments , but reconstructions . The Democratic party offers a programme of demolition . The protective policy to which all business , even that of the importer , is now adjusted the reciprocity policy , the new merchant marine , are all to be demolished , not gradually , not taken down , but blown up . To this programme of destruction it has added one constructive feature , the reestablishment of State banks of issue . The policy of the Republican party is , on the other hand , distinctively a policy of safe progression and development of new factories , new markets , and new ships . It will subject business to no perilous changes , but offers attractive opportunities for expansion upon familiar lines . Very respectfully yours , BEHARRISON . WASHINGTOC . , September 3 , 1892<speech_sep>By the President of the United States of America A Proclamation Whereas it is provided in the act of Congress entitled An act to extend the northern boundary of the State of Nebraska , approved March 28 , 1882 That the northern boundary of the State of Nebraska shall be , and hereby is , subject to the provisions hereinafter contained , extended so as to include all that portion of the Territory of Dakota lying south of the forty third parallel of north latitude and east of the Keya Paha River and west of the main channel of the Missouri River and when the Indian title to the lands thus described shall be extinguished the jurisdiction over said lands shall be , and hereby is , ceded to the State of Nebraska , and subject to all the conditions and limitations provided in the act of Congress admitting Nebraska into the Union , and the northern boundary of the State shall be extended to said forty third parallel as fully and effectually as if said lands had been included in the boundaries of said State at the time of its admission to the Union reserving to the United States the original right of soil in said lands and of disposing of the same Provided , That this act , so far as jurisdiction is concerned , shall not take effect until the President shall by proclamation declare that the Indian title to said lands has been extinguished , nor shall it take effect until the State of Nebraska shall have assented to the provisions of this act and if the State of Nebraska shall not by an act of its legislature consent to the provisions of this act within two years next after the passage hereof this act shall cease and be of no effect . And whereas by section 13 of the act entitled An act to divide a portion of the reservation of the Sioux Nation of Indians in Dakota into separate reservations and to secure the relinquishment of the Indian title to the remainder , and for other purposes , approved March 2 , 1889 , it is provided That when the allotments to the Ponca tribe of Indians and to such other Indians as allotments are provided for by this act shall have been made upon that portion of said reservation which is described in the act entitled An act to extend the northern boundary of the State of Nebraska , approved March 28 , 1882 , the President shall , in pursuance of said act , declare that the Indian title is extinguished to all lands described in said act not so allotted hereunder , and thereupon all of said land not so allotted and included in said act of March 28 , 1882 , shall be open to settlement as provided in this act Provided , That the allotments to Ponca and other Indians authorized by this act to be made upon the land described in the said act entitled An act to extend the northern boundary of the State of Nebraska shall be made within six months from the time this act shall take effect . And whereas the State of Nebraska , by an act of its legislature approved May 23 , 1882 , entitled An act declaring the assent of the State of Nebraska to an act of Congress of the United States entitled 39 An act to extend the northern boundary of the State of Nebraska , 39 approved March 28 , 1882 , assented to and accepted the provisions of said act of Congress approved March 28 , 1882 and Whereas allotments have been made to the Ponca tribe of Indians under and in accordance with the provisions of said section 13 of the act of March 2 , 1889 , and no other Indians having selected or applied for allotments upon that portion of the reservation of the Sioux Nation of Indians described in the act of March 28 , 1882 , aforesaid , and the six months 39 limit of time within which said allotments were authorized to be made having expired on the 10th day of August , 1890 Now , therefore , Benjamin Harrison , President of the United States , by virtue of the power in me vested by the act section 13 of March 2 , 1889 , aforesaid , and in pursuance of the act of March 28 , 1882 , aforesaid , do hereby declare that the Indian title is extinguished to all lands described in said act of March 28 , 1882 , not allotted to the Ponca tribe of Indians as aforesaid and shown upon a schedule , in duplicate , of allotments made and certified jointly by George Litchfield , United States special agent , and James Helms , United States Indian agent , July 31 , 1890 , and approved by the Acting Commissioner of Indian Affairs October 14 , 1890 , and by the Acting Secretary of the Interior October 22 , 1890 , one copy of which schedule of allotments is now on file in the office of the Commissioner of Indian Affairs and the other in the office of the Commissioner of the General Land Office , Department of the Interior . Be it known , however , that there is hereby reserved from entry or settlement that tract of land now occupied by the agency and school buildings of the old Ponca Agency , to wit The south half of the southeast quarter of section 26 and the south half of the southwest quarter of section 25 , all in township 32 north , range 7 west of the sixth principal meridian . In witness whereof I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed . Done at the city of Washington , this 23d day of October , 1890 , and of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and fifteenth . BENHARRISON By the President ALVEY ADEActing Secretary of State .<speech_sep>Chairman and fellow citizens I thank you most sincerely for this cordial greeting , but I shall not be betrayed by it into a lengthy speech . The selection of this day for these exercises a day consecrated to the memory of those who died that there might be one flag of honor and authority in this republic is most fitting . That one flag encircles us with its folds to day , the unrivaled object of our loyal love . This monument , so imposing and tasteful , fittingly typifies the grand and symmetrical character of him in whose honor it has been builded . His was the arduous greatness of things done . No friendly hands constructed and placed for his ambition a ladder upon which he might climb . His own brave hands framed and nailed the cleats upon which he climbed to the heights of public usefulness and fame . He never ceased to be student and instructor . Turning from peaceful pursuits to army service , he quickly mastered tactics and strategy , and in a brief army career taught some valuable lessons in military science . Turning again from the field to the councils of the state , he stood among the great debaters that have made our National Congress illustrious . What he might have been or done as President of the United States is chiefly left to friendly augury , based upon a career that had no incident of failure or inadequacy . The cruel circumstances attending his death had but one amelioration that space of life was given him to teach from his dying bed a great lesson of patience and forbearance . His mortal part will find honorable rest here , but the lessons of his life and death will continue to be instructive and inspiring incidents in American history .<speech_sep>By the President of the United States of America A Proclamation A hundred years have passed since the Government which our fore fathers founded was formally organized . At noon on the 30th day of April , 1789 , in the city of New York , and in the presence of an assemblage of the heroic men whose patriotic devotion had led the colonies to victory and independence , George Washington took the oath of office as Chief Magistrate of the new born Republic . This impressive act was preceded at 9 o 39 clock in the morning in all the churches of the city by prayer for God 39 s blessing on the Government and its first President . The centennial of this illustrious event in our history has been declared a general holiday by act of Congress , to the end that the people of the whole country may join in commemorative exercises appropriate to the day . In order that the joy of the occasion may be associated with a deep thankfulness in the minds of the people for all our blessings in the past and a devout supplication to God for their gracious continuance in the future , the representatives of the religious creeds , both Christian and Hebrew , have memorialized the Government to designate an hour for prayer and thanksgiving on that day . Now , therefore , Benjamin Harrison , President of the United States of America , in response to this pious and reasonable request , do recommend that on Tuesday , April 30 , at the hour of 9 o 39 clock in the morning , the people of the entire country repair to their respective places of divine worship to implore the favor of God that the blessings of liberty , prosperity , and peace may abide with us as a people , and that His hand may lead us in the paths of righteousness and good deeds . In witness whereof I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States of America to be affixed . Done in the city of Washington , this 4th day of April , 1889 , and of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirteenth . BENHARRISON By the President JAMES BLAINE , Secretary of State .<speech_sep>To the Senate and House of Representatives There are few transactions in the administration of the Government that are even temporarily held in the confidence of those charged with the conduct of the public business . Every step taken is under the observation of an intelligent and watchful people . The state of the Union is known from day to day , and suggestions as to needed legislation find an earlier voice than that which speaks in these annual communications of the President to Congress . Good will and cordiality have characterized our relations and correspondence with other governments , and the year just closed leaves few international questions of importance remaining unadjusted . No obstacle is believed to exist that can long postpone the consideration and adjustment of the still pending questions upon satisfactory and honorable terms . The dealings of this Government with other states have been and should always be marked by frankness and sincerity , our purposes avowed , and our methods free from intrigue . This course has borne rich fruit in the past , and it is our duty as a nation to preserve the heritage of good repute which a century of right dealing with foreign governments has secured to us . It is a matter of high significance and no less of congratulation that the first year of the second century of our constitutional existence finds as honored guests within our borders the representatives of all the independent States of North and South America met together in earnest conference touching the best methods of perpetuating and expanding the relations of mutual interest and friendliness existing among them . That the opportunity thus afforded for promoting closer international relations and the increased prosperity of the States represented will be used for the mutual good of all I can not permit myself to doubt . Our people will await with interest and confidence the results to flow from so auspicious a meeting of allied and in large part identical interests . The recommendations of this international conference of enlightened statesmen will doubtless have the considerate attention of Congress and its cooperation in the removal of unnecessary barriers to beneficial intercourse between the nations of America . But while the commercial results which it is hoped will follow this conference are worthy of pursuit and of the great interests they have excited , it is believed that the crowning benefit will be found in the better securities which may be devised for the maintenance of peace among all American nations and the settlement of all contentions by methods that a Christian civilization can approve . While viewing with interest our national resources and products , the delegates will , I am sure , find a higher satisfaction in the evidences of unselfish friendship which everywhere attend their intercourse with our people . Another international conference having great possibilities for good has lately assembled and is now in session in this capital . An invitation was extended by the Government , under the act of Congress of July 9 , 1888 , to all maritime nations to send delegates to confer touching the revision and amendment of the rules and regulations governing vessels at sea and to adopt a uniform system of marine signals . The response to this invitation has been very general and very cordial . Delegates from twenty six nations are present in the conference , and they have entered upon their useful work with great zeal and with an evident appreciation of its importance . So far as the agreement to be reached may require legislation to give it effect , the cooperation of Congress is confidently relied upon . It is an interesting , if not , indeed , an unprecedented , fact that the two international conferences have brought together here the accredited representatives of thirty three nations . Bolivia , Ecuador , and Honduras are now represented by resident envoys of the plenipotentiary grade . All the States of the American system now maintain diplomatic representation at this capital . In this connection it may be noted that all the nations of the Western Hemisphere , with one exception , send to Washington envoys extraordinary and ministers plenipotentiary , being the highest grade accredited to this Government . The United States , on the contrary , sends envoys of lower grades to some of our sister Republics . Our representative in Paraguay and Uruguay is a minister resident , while to Bolivia we send a minister resident and consul general . In view of the importance of our relations with the States of the American system , our diplomatic agents in those countries should be of the uniform rank of envoy extraordinary and minister plenipotentiary . Certain missions were so elevated by the last Congress with happy effect , and I recommend the completion of the reform thus begun , with the inclusion also of Hawaii and Hayti , in view of their relations to the American system of states . I also recommend that timely provision be made for extending to Hawaii an invitation to be represented in the international conference now sitting at this capital . Our relations with China have the attentive consideration which their magnitude and interest demand . The failure of the treaty negotiated under the Administration of my predecessor for the further and more complete restriction of Chinese labor immigration , and with it the legislation of the last session of Congress dependent thereon , leaves some questions open which Congress should now approach in that wise and just spirit which should characterize the relations of two great and friendly powers . While our supreme interests demand the exclusion of a laboring element which experience has shown to be incompatible with our social life , all steps to compass this imperative need should be accompanied with a recognition of the claim of those strangers now lawfully among us to humane and just treatment . The accession of the young Emperor of China marks , we may hope , an era of progress and prosperity for the great country over which he is called to rule . The present state of affairs in respect to the Samoan Islands is encouraging . The conference which was held in this city in the summer of 1887 between the representatives of the United States , Germany , and Great Britain having been adjourned because of the persistent divergence of views which was developed in its deliberations , the subsequent course of events in the islands gave rise to questions of a serious character . On the 4th of February last the German minister at this capital , in behalf of his Government , proposed a resumption of the conference at Berlin . This proposition was accepted , as Congress in February last was informed . Pursuant to the understanding thus reached , commissioners were appointed by me , by and with the advice and consent of the Senate , who proceeded to Berlin , where the conference was renewed . The deliberations extended through several weeks , and resulted in the conclusion of a treaty which will be submitted to the Senate for its approval . I trust that the efforts which have been made to effect an adjustment of this question will be productive of the permanent establishment of law and order in Samoa upon the basis of the maintenance of the rights and interests of the natives as well as of the treaty powers . The questions which have arisen during the past few years between Great Britain and the United States are in abeyance or in course of amicable adjustment . On the part of the government of the Dominion of Canada an effort has been apparent during the season just ended to administer the laws and regulations applicable to the fisheries with as little occasion for friction as was possible , and the temperate representations of this Government in respect of cases of undue hardship or of harsh interpretations have been in most cases met with measures of transitory relief . It is trusted that the attainment of our just rights under existing treaties and in virtue of the concurrent legislation of the two contiguous countries will not be long deferred and that all existing causes of difference may be equitably adjusted . I recommend that provision be made by an international agreement for visibly marking the water boundary between the United States and Canada in the narrow channels that join the Great Lakes . The conventional line therein traced by the northwestern boundary survey years ago is not in all cases readily ascertainable for the settlement of jurisdictional questions . A just and acceptable enlargement of the list of offenses for which extradition may be claimed and granted is most desirable between this country and Great Britain . The territory of neither should become a secure harbor for the evil doers of the other through any avoidable shortcoming in this regard . A new treaty on this subject between the two powers has been recently negotiated and will soon be laid before the Senate . The importance of the commerce of Cuba and Puerto Rico with the United States , their nearest and principal market , justifies the expectation that the existing relations may be beneficially expanded . The impediments resulting from varying dues on navigation and from the vexatious treatment of our vessels on merely technical grounds of complaint in West India ports should be removed . The progress toward an adjustment of pending claims between the United States and Spain is not as rapid as could be desired . Questions affecting American interests in connection with railways constructed and operated by our citizens in Peru have claimed the attention of this Government . It is urged that other governments in pressing Peru to the payment of their claims have disregarded the property rights of American citizens . The matter will be carefully investigated with a view to securing a proper and equitable adjustment . A similar issue is now pending with Portugal . The Delagoa Bay Railway , in Africa , was constructed under a concession by Portugal to an American citizen . When nearly completed the road was seized by the agents of the Portuguese Government . Formal protest has been made through our minister at Lisbon against this act , and no proper effort will be spared to secure proper relief . In pursuance of the charter granted by Congress and under the terms of its contract with the Government of Nicaragua the Interoceanic Canal Company has begun the construction of the important waterway between the two oceans which its organization contemplates . Grave complications for a time seemed imminent , in view of a supposed conflict of jurisdiction between Nicaragua and Costa Rica in regard to the accessory privileges to be conceded by the latter Republic toward the construction of works on the San Juan River , of which the right bank is Costa Rican territory . I am happy to learn that a friendly arrangement has been effected between the two nations . This Government has held itself ready to promote in every proper way the adjustment of all questions that might present obstacles to the completion of a work of such transcendent importance to the commerce of this country , and , indeed , to the commercial interests of the world . The traditional good feeling between this country and the French Republic has received additional testimony in the participation of our Government and people in the international exposition held at Paris during the past summer . The success of our exhibitors has been gratifying . The report of the commission will be laid before Congress in due season . This Government has accepted , under proper reserve as to its policy in foreign territories , the invitation of the Government of Belgium to take part in an international congress , which opened at Brussels on the 16th of November , for the purpose of devising measures to promote the abolition of the slave trade in Africa and to prevent the shipment of slaves by sea . Our interest in the extinction of this crime against humanity in the regions where it yet survives has been increased by the results of emancipation within our own borders . With Germany the most cordial relations continue . The questions arising from the return to the Empire of Germans naturalized in this country are considered and disposed of in a temperate spirit to the entire satisfaction of both Governments . It is a source of great satisfaction that the internal disturbances of the Republic of Hayti are at last happily ended , and that an apparently stable government has been constituted . It has been duly recognized by the United States . A mixed commission is now in session in this capital for the settlement of long standing claims against the Republic of Venezuela , and it is hoped that a satisfactory conclusion will be speedily reached . This Government has not hesitated to express its earnest desire that the boundary dispute now pending between Great Britain and Venezuela may be adjusted amicably and in strict accordance with the historic title of the parties . The advancement of the Empire of Japan has been evidenced by the recent promulgation of a new constitution , containing valuable guaranties of liberty and providing for a responsible ministry to conduct the Government . It is earnestly recommended that our judicial rights and processes in Korea be established on a firm basis by providing the machinery necessary to carry out treaty stipulations in that regard . The friendliness of the Persian Government continues to be shown by its generous treatment of Americans engaged in missionary labors and by the cordial disposition of the Shah to encourage the enterprise of our citizens in the development of Persian resources . A discussion is in progress touching the jurisdictional treaty rights of the United States in Turkey . An earnest effort will be made to define those rights to the satisfaction of both Governments . Questions continue to arise in our relations with several countries in respect to the rights of naturalized citizens . Especially is this the case with France , Italy , Russia , and Turkey , and to a less extent with Switzerland . From time to time earnest efforts have been made to regulate this subject by conventions with those countries . An improper use of naturalization should not be permitted , but it is most important that those who have been duly naturalized should everywhere be accorded recognition of the rights pertaining to the citizenship of the country of their adoption . The appropriateness of special conventions for that purpose is recognized in treaties which this Government has concluded with a number of European States , and it is advisable that the difficulties which now arise in our relations with other countries on the same subject should be similarly adjusted . The recent revolution in Brazil in favor of the establishment of a republican form of government is an event of great interest to the United States . Our minister at Rio de Janeiro was at once instructed to maintain friendly diplomatic relations with the Provisional Government , and the Brazilian representatives at this capital were instructed by the Provisional Government to continue their functions . Our friendly intercourse with Brazil has therefore suffered no interruption . Our minister has been further instructed to extend on the part of this Government a formal and cordial recognition of the new Republic so soon as the majority of the people of Brazil shall have signified their assent to its establishment and maintenance . Within our own borders a general condition of prosperity prevails . The harvests of the last summer were exceptionally abundant , and the trade conditions now prevailing seem to promise a successful season to the merchant and the manufacturer and general employment to our working people . The report of the Secretary of the Treasury for the fiscal year ending June 30 , 1889 , has been prepared and will be presented to Congress . It presents with clearness the fiscal operations of the Government , and I avail myself of it to obtain some facts for use here . The aggregate receipts from all sources for the year were 387 , 050 , 058 . 84 , derived as follows From customs 223 , 832 , 741 . 69From internal revenue130 , 881 , 513 . 92From miscellaneous sources32 , 335 , 803 . 23The ordinary expenditures for the same period were 281 , 996 , 615 . 60 , and the total expenditures , including the sinking fund , were 329 , 579 , 929 . 25 . The excess of receipts over expenditures was , after providing for the sinking fund , 57 , 470 , 129 . 59 . For the current fiscal year the total revenues , actual and estimated are 385 , 000 , 000 , and the ordinary expenditures , actual and estimated , are 293 , 000 , 000 , making with the sinking fund a total expenditure of 341 , 321 , 116 . 99 , leaving an estimated surplus of 43 , 678 , 883 . 01 . During the fiscal year there was applied to the purchase of bonds , in addition to those for the sinking fund , 90 , 456 , 172 . 35 , and during the first quarter of the current year the sum of 37 , 838 , 937 . 77 , all of which were credited to the sinking fund . The revenues for the fiscal year ending June 30 , 1891 , are estimated by the Treasury Department at 385 , 000 , 000 , and the expenditures for the same period , including the sinking fund , at 341 , 430 , 477 . 70 . This shows an estimated surplus for that year of 43 , 569 , 522 . 30 , which is more likely to be increased than reduced when the actual transactions are written up . The existence of so large an actual and anticipated surplus should have the immediate attention of Congress , with a view to reducing the receipts of the Treasury to the needs of the Government as closely as may be . The collection of moneys not needed for public uses imposes an unnecessary burden upon our people , and the presence of so large a surplus in the public vaults is a disturbing element in the conduct of private business . It has called into use expedients for putting it into circulation of very questionable propriety . We should not collect revenue for the purpose of anticipating our bonds beyond the requirements of the sinking fund , but any unappropriated surplus in the Treasury should be so used , as there is no other lawful way of returning the money to circulation , and the profit realized by the Government offers a substantial advantage . The loaning of public funds to the banks without interest Upon the security of Government bonds I regard as an unauthorized and dangerous expedient . It results in a temporary and unnatural increase of the banking capital of favored localities and compels a cautious and gradual recall of the deposits to avoid injury to the commercial interests . It is not to be expected that the banks having these deposits will sell their bonds to the Treasury so long as the present highly beneficial arrangement is continued . They now practically get interest both upon the bonds and their proceeds . No further use should be made of this method of getting the surplus into circulation , and the deposits now outstanding should be gradually withdrawn and applied to the purchase of bonds . It is fortunate that such a use can be made of the existing surplus , and for some time to come of any casual surplus that may exist after Congress has taken the necessary steps for a reduction of the revenue . Such legislation should be promptly but very considerately enacted . I recommend a revision of our tariff law both in its administrative features and in the schedules . The need of the former is generally conceded , and an agreement upon the evils and inconveniences to be remedied and the best methods for their correction will probably not be difficult . Uniformity of valuation at all our ports is essential , and effective measures should be taken to secure it . It is equally desirable that questions affecting rates and classifications should be promptly decided . The preparation of a new schedule of customs duties is a matter of great delicacy because of its direct effect upon the business of the country , and of great difficulty by reason of the wide divergence of opinion as to the objects that may properly be promoted by such legislation . Some disturbance of business may perhaps result from the consideration of this subject by Congress , but this temporary ill effect will be reduced to the minimum by prompt action and by the assurance which the country already enjoys that any necessary changes will be so made as not to impair the just and reasonable protection of our home industries . The inequalities of the law should be adjusted , but the protective principle should be maintained and fairly applied to the products of our farms as well as of our shops . These duties necessarily have relation to other things besides the public revenues . We can not limit their effects by fixing our eyes on the public Treasury alone . They have a direct relation to home production , to work , to wages , and to the commercial independence of our country , and the wise and patriotic legislator should enlarge the field of his vision to include all of these . The necessary reduction in our public revenues can , I am sure , be made without making the smaller burden more onerous than the larger by reason of the disabilities and limitations which the process of reduction puts upon both capital and labor . The free list can very safely be extended by placing thereon articles that do not offer injurious competition to such domestic products as our home labor can supply . The removal of the internal tax upon tobacco would relieve an important agricultural product from a burden which was imposed only because our revenue from customs duties was insufficient for the public needs . If safe provision against fraud can be devised , the removal of the tax upon spirits used in the arts and in manufactures would also offer an unobjectionable method of reducing the surplus . A table presented by the Secretary of the Treasury showing the amount of money of all kinds in circulation each year from 1878 to the present time is of interest . It appears that the amount of national bank notes in circulation has decreased during that period 114 , 109 , 729 , of which 37 , 799 , 229 is chargeable to the last year . The withdrawal of bank circulation will necessarily continue under existing conditions . It is probable that the adoption of the suggestions made by the Comptroller of the Currency , namely , that the minimum deposit of bonds for the establishment of banks be reduced and that an issue of notes to the par value of the bonds be allowed , would help to maintain the bank circulation . But while this withdrawal of bank notes has been going on there has been a large increase in the amount of gold and silver coin in circulation and in the issues of gold and silver certificates . The total amount of money of all kinds in circulation on March 1 , 1878 , was 805 , 793 , 807 , while on October 1 , 1889 , the total was 1 , 405 , 018 , 000 . There was an increase of 293 , 417 , 552 in gold coin , of 57 , 554 , 100 in standard silver dollars , of 72 , 311 , 249 in gold certificates , of 276 , 619 , 715 in silver certificates , and of 14 , 073 , 787 in United States notes , making a total of 713 , 976 , 403 . There was during the same period a decrease of 114 , 109 , 729 in bank circulation and of 642 , 481 in subsidiary silver . The net increase was 599 , 224 , 193 . The circulation per capita has increased about 5 during the time covered by the table referred to . The total coinage of silver dollars was on November 1 , 1889 , 343 , 638 , 001 , of which 283 , 539 , 521 were in the Treasury vaults and 60 , 098 , 480 were in circulation . Of the amount in the vaults 277 , 319 , 944 were represented by outstanding silver certificates , leaving 6 , 219 , 577 not in circulation and not represented by certificates . The law requiring the purchase by the Treasury of 2 , 000 , 000 worth of silver bullion each month , to be coined into silver dollars of 412 1 2 grains , has been observed by the Department , but neither the present Secretary nor any of his predecessors has deemed it safe to exercise the discretion given by law to increase the monthly purchases to 4 , 000 , 000 . When the law was enacted February 28 , 1878 the price of silver in the market was 1 . 204 per ounce , making the bullion value of the dollar 93 cents . Since that time the price has fallen as low as 91 . 2 cents per ounce , reducing the bullion value of the dollar to 70 . 6 cents . Within the last few months the market price has somewhat advanced , and on the 1st day of November last the bullion value of the silver dollar was 72 cents . The evil anticipations which have accompanied the coinage and use of the silver dollar have not been realized . As a coin it has not had general use , and the public Treasury has been compelled to store it . But this is manifestly owing to the fact that its paper representative is more convenient . The general acceptance and the use of the silver certificate show that silver has not been otherwise discredited . Some favorable conditions have contributed to maintain this practical equality in their commercial use between the gold and silver dollars but some of these are trade conditions that statutory enactments do not control and of the continuance of which we can not be certain . I think it is clear that if we should make the coinage of silver at the present ratio free we must expect that the difference in the bullion values of the gold and silver dollars will be taken account of in commercial transactions and I fear the same result would follow any considerable increase of the present rate of coinage . Such a result would be discreditable to our financial management and disastrous to all business interests . We should not tread the dangerous edge of such a peril . And , indeed , nothing more harmful could happen to the silver interests . Any safe legislation upon this subject must secure the equality of the two coins in their commercial uses . I have always been an advocate of the use of silver in our currency . We are large producers of that metal , and should not discredit it . To the plan which will be presented by the Secretary of the Treasury for the issuance of notes or certificates upon the deposit of silver bullion at its market value I have been able to give only a hasty examination , owing to the press of other matters and to the fact that it has been so recently formulated . The details of such a law require careful consideration , but the general plan suggested by him seems to satisfy the purpose to continue the use of silver in connection with our currency and at the same time to obviate the danger of which I have spoken . At a later day I may communicate further with Congress upon this subject . The enforcement of the Chinese exclusion act has been found to be very difficult on the northwestern frontier . Chinamen landing at Victoria find it easy to pass our border , owing to the impossibility with the force at the command of the customs officers of guarding so long an inland line . The Secretary of the Treasury has authorized the employment of additional officers , who will be assigned to this duty , and every effort will be made to enforce the law . The Dominion exacts a head tax of 50 for each Chinaman landed , and when these persons , in fraud of our law , cross into our territory and are apprehended our officers do not know what to do with them , as the Dominion authorities will not suffer them to be sent back without a second payment of the tax . An effort will be made to reach an understanding that will remove this difficulty . The proclamation required by section 3 of the act of March 2 , 1889 , relating to the killing of seals and other fur bearing animals , was issued by me on the 21st day of March , and a revenue vessel was dispatched to enforce the laws and protect the interests of the United States . The establishment of a refuge station at Point Barrow , as directed by Congress , was successfully accomplished . Judged by modern standards , we are practically without coast defenses . Many of the structures we have would enhance rather than diminish the perils of their garrisons if subjected to the fire of improved guns , and very few are so located as to give full effect to the greater range of such guns as we are now making for coast defense uses . This general subject has had consideration in Congress for some years , and the appropriation for the construction of large rifled guns made one year ago was , I am sure , the expression of a purpose to provide suitable works in which these guns might be mounted . An appropriation now made for that purpose would not advance the completion of the works beyond our ability to supply them with fairly effective guns . The security of our coast cities against foreign attacks should not rest altogether in the friendly disposition of other nations . There should be a second line wholly in our own keeping . I very urgently recommend an appropriation at this session for the construction of such works in our most exposed harbors . I approve the suggestion of the Secretary of War that provision be made for encamping companies of the National Guard in our coast works for a specified time each year and for their training in the use of heavy guns . His suggestion that an increase of the artillery force of the Army is desirable is also , in this connection , commended to the consideration of Congress . The improvement of our important rivers and harbors should be promoted by the necessary appropriations . Care should be taken that the Government is not committed to the prosecution of works not of public and general advantage and that the relative usefulness of works of that class is not overlooked . So far as this work can ever be said to be completed , I do not doubt that the end would be sooner and more economically reached if fewer separate works were undertaken at the same time , and those selected for their greater general interest were more rapidly pushed to completion . A work once considerably begun should not be subjected to the risks and deterioration which interrupted or insufficient appropriations necessarily occasion . The assault made by David Terry upon the person of Justice Field , of the Supreme Court of the United States , at Lathtop , Cal . , in August last , and the killing of the assailant by a deputy United States marshal who had been deputed to accompany Justice Field and to protect him from anticipated violence at the hands of Terry , in connection with the legal proceedings which have followed , suggest questions which , in my judgment , are worthy of the attention of Congress . I recommend that more definite provision be made by law not only for the protection of Federal officers , but for a full trial of such cases in the United States courts . In recommending such legislation I do not at all impeach either the general adequacy of the provision made by the State laws for the protection of all citizens or the general good disposition of those charged with the execution of such laws to give protection to the officers of the United States . The duty of protecting its officers , as such , and of punishing those who assault them on account of their official acts should not be devolved expressly or by acquiescence upon the local authorities . Events which have been brought to my attention happening in other parts of the country have also suggested the propriety of extending by legislation fuller protection to those who may be called as witnesses in the courts of the United States . The law compels those who are supposed to have knowledge of public offenses to attend upon our courts and grand juries and to give evidence . There is a manifest resulting duty that these witnesses shall be protected from injury on account of their testimony . The investigations of criminal offenses are often rendered futile and the punishment of crime impossible by the intimidation of witnesses . The necessity of providing some more speedy method for disposing of the cases which now come for final adjudication to the Supreme Court becomes every year more apparent and urgent . The plan of providing some intermediate courts having final appellate jurisdiction of certain classes of questions and cases has , I think , received a more general approval from the bench and bar of the country than any other . Without attempting to discuss details , I recommend that provision be made for the establishment of such courts . The salaries of the judges of the district courts in many of the districts are , in my judgment , inadequate . I recommend that all such salaries now below 5 , 000 per annum be increased to that amount . It is quite true that the amount of labor performed by these judges is very unequal , but as they can not properly engage in other pursuits to supplement their incomes the salary should be such in all cases as to provide an independent and comfortable support . Earnest attention should be given by Congress to a consideration of the question how far the restraint of those combinations of capital commonly called trusts is matter of Federal jurisdiction . When organized , as they often are , to crush out all healthy competition and to monopolize the production or sale of an article of commerce and general necessity , they are dangerous conspiracies against the public good , and should be made the subject of prohibitory and even penal legislation . The subject of an international copyright has been frequently commended to the attention of Congress by my predecessors . The enactment of such a law would be eminently wise and just . Our naturalization laws should be so revised as to make the inquiry into the moral character and good disposition toward our Government of the persons applying for citizenship more thorough . This can only be done by taking fuller control of the examination , by fixing the times for hearing such applications , and by requiring the presence of some one who shall represent the Government in the inquiry . Those who are the avowed enemies of social order or who come to our shores to swell the injurious influence and to extend the evil practices of any association that defies our laws should not only be denied citizenship , but a domicile . The enactment of a national bankrupt law of a character to be a permanent part of our general legislation is desirable . It should be simple in its methods and inexpensive in its administration . The report of the Postmaster General not only exhibits the operations of the Department for the last fiscal year , but contains many valuable suggestions for the improvement and extension of the service , which are commended to your attention . No other branch of the Government has so close a contact with the daily life of the people . Almost everyone uses the service it offers , and every hour gained in the transmission of the great commercial mails has an actual and possible value that only those engaged in trade can understand . The saving of one day in the transmission of the mails between New York and San Francisco , which has recently been accomplished , is an incident worthy of mention . The plan suggested of a supervision of the post offices in separate districts that shall involve instruction and suggestion and a rating of the efficiency of the postmasters would , I have no doubt , greatly improve the service . A pressing necessity exists for the erection of a building for the joint use of the Department and of the city post office . The Department was partially relieved by renting . outside quarters for a part of its force , but it is again overcrowded . The building used by the city office never was fit for the purpose , and is now inadequate and unwholesome . The unsatisfactory condition of the law relating to the transmission through the mails of lottery advertisements and remittances is clearly stated by the Postmaster General , and his suggestion as to amendments should have your favorable consideration . The report of the Secretary of the Navy shows a reorganization of the bureaus of the Department that will , I do not doubt , promote the efficiency of each . In general , satisfactory progress has been made in the construction of the new ships of war authorized by Congress . The first vessel of the new Navy , the Dolphin , was subjected to very severe trial tests and to very much adverse criticism but it is gratifying to be able to state that a cruise around the world , from which she has recently returned , has demonstrated that she is a first class vessel of her rate . The report of the Secretary shows that while the effective force of the Navy is rapidly increasing by reason of the improved build and armament of the new ships , the number of our ships fit for sea duty grows very slowly . We had on the 4th of March last 37 serviceable ships , and though 4 have since been added to the list , the total has not been increased , because in the meantime 4 have been lost or condemned . Twenty six additional vessels have been authorized and appropriated for but it is probable that when they are completed our list will only be increased to 42 a gain of 5 . The old wooden ships are disappearing almost as fast as the new vessels are added . These facts carry their own argument . One of the new ships may in fighting strength be equal to two of the old , but it can not do the cruising duty of two . It is important , therefore , that we should have a more rapid increase in the number of serviceable ships . I concur in the recommendation of the Secretary that the construction of 8 armored ships , 3 gunboats , and 5 torpedo boats be authorized . An appalling calamity befell three of our naval vessels on duty at the Samoan Islands , in the harbor of Apia , in March last , involving the loss of 4 officers and 47 seamen , of two vessels , the Trenton and the Vandalia , and the disabling of a third , the Nipsic . Three vessels of the German navy , also in the harbor , shared with our ships the force of the hurricane and suffered even more heavily . While mourning the brave officers and men who died facing with high resolve perils greater than those of battle , it is most gratifying to state that the credit of the American Navy for seamanship , courage , and generosity was magnificently sustained in the storm beaten harbor of Apia . The report of the Secretary of the Interior exhibits the transactions of the Government with the Indian tribes . Substantial progress has been made in the education of the children of school age and in the allotment of lands to adult Indians . It is to be regretted that the policy of breaking up the tribal relation and of dealing with the Indian as an individual did not appear earlier in our legislation . Large reservations held in common and the maintenance of the authority of the chiefs and headmen have deprived the individual of every incentive to the exercise of thrift , and the annuity has contributed an affirmative impulse toward a state of confirmed pauperism . Our treaty stipulations should be observed with fidelity and our legislation should be highly considerate of the best interests of an ignorant and helpless people . The reservations are now generally surrounded by white settlements . We can no longer push the Indian back into the wilderness , and it remains only by every suitable agency to push him upward into the estate of a self supporting and responsible citizen . For the adult the first step is to locate him upon a farm , and for the child to place him in a school . School attendance should be promoted by every moral agency , and those failing should be compelled . The national schools for Indians have been very successful and should be multiplied , and as far as possible should be so organized and conducted as to facilitate the transfer of the schools to the States or Territories in which they are located when the Indians in a neighborhood have accepted citizenship and have become otherwise fitted for such a transfer . This condition of things will be attained slowly , but it will be hastened by keeping it in mind and in the meantime that cooperation between the Government and the mission schools which has wrought much good should be cordially and impartially maintained . The last Congress enacted two distinct laws relating to negotiations with the Sioux Indians of Dakota for a relinquishment of a portion of their lands to the United States and for dividing the remainder into separate reservations . Both were approved on the same day March 2 . The one submitted to the Indians a specific proposition the other section 3 of the Indian appropriation act authorized the President to appoint three commissioners to negotiate with these Indians for the accomplishment of the same general purpose , and required that any agreements made should be submitted to Congress for ratification . On the 16th day of April last I appointed Charles Foster , of Ohio , William Warner , of Missouri , and Major General George Crook , of the United States Army , commissioners under the last named law . They were , however , authorized and directed first to submit to the Indians the definite proposition made to them by the act first mentioned , and only in the event of a failure to secure the assent of the requisite number to that proposition to open negotiations for modified terms under the other act . The work of the commission was prolonged and arduous , but the assent of the requisite number was , it is understood , finally obtained to the proposition made by Congress , though the report of the commission has not yet been submitted . In view of these facts , I shall not , as at present advised , deem it necessary to submit the agreement to Congress for ratification , but it will in due course be submitted for information . This agreement releases to the United States about 9 , 000 , 000 acres of land . The commission provided for by section 14 of the Indian appropriation bill to negotiate with the Cherokee Indians and all other Indians owning or claiming lands lying west of the ninety sixth degree of longitude for the cession to the United States of all such lands was constituted by the appointment of Lucius Fairchild , of Wisconsin , John Hartranft , of Pennsylvania , and Alfred Wilson , of Arkansas , and organized on June 29 last . Their first conference with the representatives of the Cherokees was held at Tahlequah July 29 , with no definite results . General John Hartranft , of Pennsylvania , was prevented by ill health from taking part in the conference . His death , which occurred recently , is justly and generally lamented by a people he had served with conspicuous gallantry in war and with great fidelity in peace . The vacancy thus created was filled by the appointment of Warren Sayre , of Indiana . A second conference between the commission and the Cherokees was begun November 6 , but no results have yet been obtained , nor is it believed that a conclusion can be immediately expected . The cattle syndicate now occupying the lands for grazing purposes is clearly one of the agencies responsible for the obstruction of our negotiations with the Cherokees . The large body of agricultural lands constituting what is known as the Cherokee Outlet ought not to be , and , indeed , can not long be , held for grazing and for the advantage of a few against the public interests and the best advantage of the Indians themselves . The United States has now under the treaties certain rights in these lands . These will not be used oppressively , but it can not be allowed that those who by sufferance occupy these lands shall interpose to defeat the wise and beneficent purposes of the Government . I can not but believe that the advantageous character of the offer made by the United States to the Cherokee Nation for a full release of these lands as compared with other suggestions now made to them will yet obtain for it a favorable consideration . Under the agreement made between the United States and the Muscogee or Creek Nation of Indians on the 19th day of January , 1889 , an absolute title was secured by the United States to about 3 , 500 , 000 acres of land . Section 12 of the general Indian appropriation act approved March 2 , 1889 , made provision for the purchase by the United States from the Seminole tribe of a certain portion of their lands . The delegates of the Seminole Nation , having first duly evidenced to me their power to act in that behalf , delivered a proper release or conveyance to the United States of all the lands mentioned in the act , which was accepted by me and certified to be in compliance with the statute . By the terms of both the acts referred to all the lands so purchased were declared to be a part of the public domain and open to settlement under the homestead law . But of the lands embraced in these purchases , being in . the aggregate about 5 , 500 , 000 acres , 3 , 500 , 000 acres had already , under the terms of the treaty of 1866 , been acquired by the United States for the purpose of settling other Indian tribes thereon and had been appropriated to that purpose . The land remaining and available for settlement consisted of 1 , 887 , 796 acres , surrounded on all sides by lands in the occupancy of Indian tribes . Congress had provided no civil government for the people who were to be invited by my proclamation to settle upon these lands , except as the new court which had been established at Muscogee or the United States courts in some of the adjoining States had power to enforce the general laws of the United States . In this condition of things I was quite reluctant to open the lands to settlement but in view of the fact that several thousand persons , many of them with their families , had gathered upon the borders of the Indian Territory with a view to securing homesteads on the ceded lands , and that delay would involve them in much loss and suffering , I did on the 23d day of March last issue a proclamation declaring that the lands therein described would be open to settlement under the provisions of the law on the 22d day of April following at 12 of the clock noon . Two land districts had been established and the offices were opened for the transaction of business when the appointed time arrived . It is much to the credit of the settlers that they very generally observed the limitation as to the time when they might enter the Territory . Care will be taken that those who entered in violation of the law do not secure the advantage they unfairly sought . There was a good deal of apprehension that the strife for locations would result in much violence and bloodshed , but happily these anticipations were not realized . It is estimated that there are now in the Territory about 60 , 000 people , and several considerable towns have sprung up , for which temporary municipal governments have been organized . Guthrie is said to have now a population of almost 8 , 000 . Eleven schools and nine churches have been established , and three daily and five weekly newspapers are published in this city , whose charter and ordinances have only the sanction of the voluntary acquiescence of the people from day to day . Oklahoma City has a population of about 5 , 000 , and is proportionately as well provided as Guthrie with churches , schools , and newspapers . Other towns and villages having populations of from 100 to 1 , 000 are scattered over the Territory . In order to secure the peace of this new community in the absence of civil government , I directed General Merritt , commanding the Department of the Missouri , to act in conjunction with the marshals of the United States to preserve the peace , and upon their requisition to use the troops to aid them in executing warrants and in quieting any riots or breaches of the peace that might occur . He was further directed to use his influence to promote good order and to avoid any conflicts between or with the settlers . Believing that the introduction and sale of liquors where no legal restraints or regulations existed would endanger the public peace , and in view of the fact that such liquors must first be introduced into the Indian reservations before reaching the white settlements , I further directed the general commanding to enforce the laws relating to the introduction of ardent spirits into the Indian country . The presence of the troops has given a sense of security to the well disposed citizens and has tended to restrain the lawless . In one instance the officer in immediate command of the troops went further than I deemed justifiable in supporting the de facto municipal government of Guthrie , and he was so informed , and directed to limit the interference of the military to the support of the marshals on the lines indicated in the original order . I very urgently recommend that Congress at once provide a Territorial government for these people . Serious questions , which may at any time lead to violent outbreaks , are awaiting the institution of courts for their peaceful adjustment . The American genius for self government has been well illustrated in Oklahoma but it is neither safe nor wise to leave these people longer to the expedients which have temporarily served them . Provision should be made for the acquisition of title to town lots in the towns now established in Alaska , for locating town sites , and for the establishment of municipal governments . Only the mining laws have been extended to that Territory , and no other form of title to lands can now be obtained . The general land laws were framed with reference to the disposition of agricultural lands , and it is doubtful if their operation in Alaska would be beneficial . We have fortunately not extended to Alaska the mistaken policy of establishing reservations for the Indian tribes , and can deal with them from the beginning as individuals with , I am sure , better results but any disposition of the public lands and any regulations relating to timber and to the fisheries should have a kindly regard to their interests . Having no power to levy taxes , the people of Alaska are wholly dependent upon the General Government , to whose revenues the seal fisheries make a large annual contribution . An appropriation for education should neither be overlooked nor stinted . The smallness of the population and the great distances between the settlements offer serious obstacles to the establishment of the usual Territorial form of government . Perhaps the organization of several sub districts with a small municipal council of limited powers for each would be safe and useful . Attention is called in this connection to the suggestions of the Secretary of the Treasury relating to the establishment of another port of entry in Alaska and of other needed customs facilities and regulations . In the administration of the land laws the policy of facilitating in every proper way the adjustment of the honest claims of individual settlers upon the public lands has been pursued . The number of pending cases had during the preceding Administration been greatly increased under the operation of orders for a time suspending final action in a large part of the cases originating in the West and Northwest , and by the subsequent use of unusual methods of examination . Only those who are familiar with the conditions under which our agricultural lands have been settled can appreciate the serious and often fatal consequences to the settler of a policy that puts his title under suspicion or delays the issuance of his patent . While care is taken to prevent and to expose fraud , it should not be imputed without reason . The manifest purpose of the homestead and preemption laws was to promote the settlement of the public domain by persons having a bona fide intent to make a home upon the selected lands . Where this intent is well established and the requirements of the law have been substantially complied with , the claimant is entitled to a prompt and friendly consideration of his case but where there is reason to believe that the claimant is the mere agent of another who is seeking to evade a law intended to promote small holdings and to secure by fraudulent methods large tracts of timber and other lands , both principal and agent should not only be thwarted in their fraudulent purpose , but should be made to feel the full penalties of our criminal statutes . The laws should be so administered as not to confound these two classes and to visit penalties only upon the latter . The unsettled state of the titles to large bodies of lands in the Territories of New Mexico and Arizona has greatly retarded the development of those Territories . Provision should be made by law for the prompt trial and final adjustment before a judicial tribunal or commission of all claims based upon Mexican grants . It is not just to an intelligent and enterprising people that their peace should be disturbed and their prosperity retarded by these old contentions . I express the hope that differences of opinion as to methods may yield to the urgency of the case . The law now provides a pension for every soldier and sailor who was mustered into the service of the United States during the Civil War and is now suffering from wounds or disease having an origin in the service and in the line of duty . Two of the three necessary facts , viz , muster and disability , are usually susceptible of easy proof but the third , origin in the service , is often difficult and in many deserving cases impossible to establish . That very many of those who endured the hardships of our most bloody and arduous campaigns are now disabled from diseases that had a real but not traceable origin in the service I do not doubt . Besides these there is another class composed of men many of whom served an enlistment of three full years and of reenlisted veterans who added a fourth year of service , who escaped the casualties of battle and the assaults of disease , who were always ready for any detail , who were in every battle line of their command , and were mustered out in sound health , and have since the close of the war , while fighting with the same indomitable and independent spirit the contests of civil life , been overcome by disease or casualty . I am not unaware that the pension roll already involves a very large annual expenditure neither am I deterred by that fact from recommending that Congress grant a pension to such honorably discharged soldiers and sailors of the Civil War as , having rendered substantial service during the war , are now dependent upon their own labor for a maintenance and by disease or casualty are incapacitated from earning it . Many of the men who would be included in this form of relief are now dependent upon public aid , and it does not , in my judgment , consist with the national honor that they shall continue to subsist upon the local relief given indiscriminately to paupers instead of upon the special and generous provision of the nation they served so gallantly and unselfishly . Our people will , I am sure , very generally approve such legislation . And I am equally sure that the survivors of the Union Army and Navy will feel a grateful sense of relief when this worthy and suffering class of their comrades is fairly cared for . There are some manifest inequalities in the existing law that should be remedied . To some of these the Secretary of the Interior has called attention . It is gratifying to be able to state that by the adoption of new and better methods in the War Department the calls of the Pension Office for information as to the military and hospital records of pension claimants are now promptly answered and the injurious and vexatious delays that have heretofore occurred are entirely avoided . This will greatly facilitate the adjustment of all pending claims . The advent of four new States South Dakota , North Dakota , Montana , and Washington into the Union under the Constitution in the same month , and the admission of their duly chosen representatives to our National Congress at the same session , is an event as unexampled as it is interesting . The certification of the votes cast and of the constitutions adopted in each of the States was filed with me , as required by the eighth section of the act of February 22 , 1889 , by the governors of said Territories , respectively . Having after a careful examination found that the several constitutions and governments were republican in form and not repugnant to the Constitution of the United States , that all the provisions of the act of Congress had been complied with , and that a majority of the votes cast in each of said proposed States was in favor of the adoption of the constitution submitted therein , I did so declare by a separate proclamation as to each as to North Dakota and South Dakota on Saturday , November 2 as to Montana on Friday , November 8 , and as to Washington on Monday , November 11 . Each of these States has within it resources the development of which will employ the energies of and yield a comfortable subsistence to a great population . The smallest of these new States , Washington , stands twelfth , and the largest , Montana , third , among the forty two in area . The people of these States are already well trained , intelligent , and patriotic American citizens , having common interests and sympathies with those of the older States and a common purpose to defend the integrity and uphold the honor of the nation . The attention of the Interstate Commerce Commission has been called to the urgent need of Congressional legislation for the better protection of the lives and limbs of those engaged in operating the great interstate freight lines of the country , and especially of the yardmen and brakemen . A petition signed by nearly 10 , 000 railway brakemen was presented to the Commission asking that steps might be taken to bring about the use of automatic brakes and couplers on freight cars . At a meeting of State railroad commissioners and their accredited representatives held at Washington in March last upon the invitation of the Interstate Commerce Commission a resolution was unanimously adopted urging the Commission to consider what can be done to prevent the loss of life and limb in coupling and uncoupling freight cars and in handling the brakes of such cars . During the year ending June 30 , 1888 , over 2 , 000 railroad employees were killed in service and more than 20 , 000 injured . It is competent , I think , for Congress to require uniformity in the construction of cars used in interstate commerce and the use of improved safety appliances upon such trains . Time will be necessary to make the needed changes , but an earnest and intelligent beginning should be made at once . It is a reproach to our civilization that any class of American workmen should in the pursuit of a necessary and useful vocation be subjected to a peril of life and limb as great as that of a soldier in time of war . The creation of an Executive Department to be known as the Department of Agriculture by the act of February 9 last was a wise and timely response to a request which had long been respectfully urged by the farmers of the country but much remains to be done to perfect the organization of the Department so that it may fairly realize the expectations which its creation excited . In this connection attention is called to the suggestions contained in the report of the Secretary , which is herewith submitted . The need of a law officer for the Department such as is provided for the other Executive Departments is manifest . The failure of the last Congress to make the usual provision for the publication of the annual report should be promptly remedied . The public interest in the report and its value to the farming community , I am sure , will not be diminished under the new organization of the Department . I recommend that the weather service be separated from the War Department and established as a bureau in the Department of Agriculture . This will involve an entire reorganization both of the Weather Bureau and of the Signal Corps , making of the first a purely civil organization and of the other a purely military staff corps . The report of the Chief Signal Officer shows that the work of the corps on its military side has been deteriorating . The interests of the people of the District of Columbia should not be lost sight of in the pressure for consideration of measures affecting the whole country . Having no legislature of its own , either municipal or general , its people must look to Congress for the regulation of all those concerns that in the States are the subject of local control . Our whole people have an interest that the national capital should be made attractive and beautiful , and , above all , that its repute for social order should be well maintained . The laws regulating the sale of intoxicating drinks in the District should be revised with a view to bringing the traffic under stringent limitations and control . In execution of the power conferred upon me by the act making appropriations for the expenses of the District of Columbia for the year ending June 30 , 1890 , I did on the 17th day of August last appoint Rudolph Hering , of New York , Samuel Gray , of Rhode Island , and Frederick Stearns , of Massachusetts , three eminent sanitary engineers , to examine and report upon the system of sewerage existing in the District of Columbia . Their report , which is not yet completed , will be in due course submitted to Congress . The report of the Commissioners of the District is herewith transmitted , and the attention of Congress is called to the suggestions contained therein . The proposition to observe the four hundredth anniversary of the discovery of America by the opening of a world s fair or exposition in some one of our great cities will be presented for the consideration of Congress . The value and interest of such an exposition may well claim the promotion of the General Government . On the 4th of March last the Civil Service Commission had but a single member . The vacancies were filled on the 7th day of May , and since then the Commissioners have been industriously , though with an inadequate force , engaged in executing the law . They were assured by me that a cordial support would be given them in the faithful and impartial enforcement of the statute and of the rules and regulations adopted in aid of it . Heretofore the book of eligibles has been closed to everyone , except as certifications were made upon the requisition of the appointing officers . This secrecy was the source of much suspicion and of many charges of favoritism in the administration of the law . What is secret is always suspected what is open can be judged . The Commission , with the full approval of all its members , has now opened the list of eligibles to the public . The eligible lists for the classified post offices and custom houses are now publicly posted in the respective offices , as are also the certifications for appointments . The purpose of the civil service law was absolutely to exclude any other consideration in connection with appointments under it than that of merit as tested by the examinations . The business proceeds upon the theory that both the examining boards and the appointing officers are absolutely ignorant as to the political views and associations of all persons on the civil service lists . It is not too much to say , however , that some recent Congressional investigations have somewhat shaken public confidence in the impartiality of the selections for appointment . The reform of the civil service will make no safe or satisfactory advance until the present law and its equal administration are well established in the confidence of the people . It will be my pleasure , as it is my duty , to see that the law is executed with firmness and impartiality . If some of its provisions have been fraudulently evaded by appointing officers , our resentment should not suggest the repeal of the law , but reform in its administration . We should have one view of the matter , and hold it with a sincerity that is not affected by the consideration that the party to which we belong is for the time in power . My predecessor , on the 4th day of January , 1889 , by an Executive order to take effect March 15 , brought the Railway Mail Service under the operation of the civil service law . Provision was made that the order should take effect sooner in any State where an eligible list was sooner obtained . On the 11th day of March Lyman , then the only member of the Commission , reported to me in writing that it would not be possible to have the list of eligibles ready before May 1 , and requested that the taking effect of the order be postponed until that time , which was done , subject to the same provision contained in the original order as to States in which an eligible list was sooner obtained . As a result of the revision of the rules , of the new classification , and of the inclusion of the Railway Mail Service , the work of the Commission has been greatly increased , and the present clerical force is found to be inadequate . I recommend that the additional clerks asked by the Commission be appropriated for . The duty of appointment is devolved by the Constitution or by the law , and the appointing officers are properly held to a high responsibility in its exercise . The growth of the country and the consequent increase of the civil list have magnified this function of the Executive disproportionally . It can not be denied , however , that the labor connected with this necessary work is increased , often to the point of actual distress , by the sudden and excessive demands that are made upon an incoming Administration for removals and appointments . But , on the other hand , it is not true that incumbency is a conclusive argument for continuance in office . Impartiality , moderation , fidelity to public duty , and a good attainment in the discharge of it must be added before the argument is complete . When those holding administrative offices so conduct themselves as to convince just political opponents that no party consideration or bias affects in any way the discharge of their public duties , we can more easily stay the demand for removals . I am satisfied that both in and out of the classified service great benefit would accrue from the adoption of some system by which the officer would receive the distinction and benefit that in all private employments comes from exceptional faithfulness and efficiency in the performance of duty . I have suggested to the heads of the Executive Departments that they consider whether a record might not be kept in each bureau of all those elements that are covered by the terms faithfulness and efficiency , and a rating made showing the relative merits of the clerks of each class , this rating to be regarded as a test of merit in making promotions . I have also suggested to the Postmaster General that he adopt some plan by which he can , upon the basis of the reports to the Department and of frequent inspections , indicate the relative merit of postmasters of each class . They will be appropriately indicated in the Official Register and in the report of the Department . That a great stimulus would thus be given to the whole service I do not doubt , and such a record would be the best defense against inconsiderate removals from office . The interest of the General Government in the education of the people found an early expression , not only in the thoughtful and sometimes warning utterances of our ablest statesmen , but in liberal appropriations from the common resources for the support of education in the new States . No one will deny that it is of the gravest national concern that those who hold the ultimate control of all public affairs should have the necessary intelligence wisely to direct and determine them . National aid to education has heretofore taken the form of land grants , and in that form the constitutional power of Congress to promote the education of the people is not seriously questioned . I do not think it can be successfully questioned when the form is changed to that of a direct grant of money from the public Treasury . Such aid should be , as it always has been , suggested by some exceptional conditions . The sudden emancipation of the slaves of the South , the bestowal of the suffrage which soon followed , and the impairment of the ability of the States where these new citizens were chiefly found to adequately provide educational facilities presented not only exceptional but unexampled conditions . That the situation has been much ameliorated there is no doubt . The ability and interest of the States have happily increased . But a great work remains to be done , and I think the General Government should lend its aid . As the suggestion of a national grant in aid of education grows chiefly out of the condition and needs of the emancipated slave and his descendants , the relief should as far as possible , while necessarily proceeding upon some general lines , be applied to the need that suggested it . It is essential , if much good is to be accomplished , that the sympathy and active interest of the people of the States should be enlisted , and that the methods adopted should be such as to stimulate and not to supplant local taxation for school purposes . As one Congress can not bind a succeeding one in such a case and as the effort must in some degree be experimental , I recommend that any appropriation made for this purpose be so limited in annual amount and as to the time over which it is to extend as will on the one hand give the local school authorities opportunity to make the best use of the first year s allowance , and on the other deliver them from the temptation to unduly postpone the assumption of the whole burden themselves . The colored people did not intrude themselves upon us . They were brought here in chains and held in the communities where they are now chiefly found by a cruel slave code . Happily for both races , they are now free . They have from a standpoint of ignorance and poverty which was our shame , not theirs made remarkable advances in education and in the acquisition of property . They have as a people shown themselves to be friendly and faithful toward the white race under temptations of tremendous strength . They have their representatives in the national cemeteries , where a grateful Government has gathered the ashes of those who died in its defense . They have furnished to our Regular Army regiments that have won high praise from their commanding officers for courage and soldierly qualities and for fidelity to the enlistment oath . In civil life they are now the toilers of their communities , making their full contribution to the widening streams of prosperity which these communities are receiving . Their sudden withdrawal would stop production and bring disorder into the household as well as the shop . Generally they do not desire to quit their homes , and their employers resent the interference of the emigration agents who seek to stimulate such a desire . But notwithstanding all this , in many parts of our country where the colored population is large the people of that race are by various devices deprived of any effective exercise of their political rights and of many of their civil rights . The wrong does not expend itself upon those whose votes are suppressed . Every constituency in the Union is wronged . It has been the hope of every patriot that a sense of justice and of respect for the law would work a gradual cure of these flagrant evils . Surely no one supposes that the present can be accepted as a permanent condition . If it is said that these communities must work out this problem for themselves , we have a right to ask whether they are at work upon it . Do they suggest any solution When and under what conditions is the black man to have a free ballot When is he in fact to have those full civil rights which have so long been his in law When is that equality of influence which our form of government was intended to secure to the electors to be restored This generation should courageously face these grave questions , and not leave them as a heritage of woe to the next . The consultation should proceed with candor , calmness , and great patience , upon the lines of justice and humanity , not of prejudice and cruelty . No question in our country can be at rest except upon the firm base of justice and of the law . I earnestly invoke the attention of Congress to the consideration of such measures within its well defined constitutional powers as will secure to all our people a free exercise of the right of suffrage and every other civil right under the Constitution and laws of the United States . No evil , however deplorable , can justify the assumption either on the part of the Executive or of Congress of powers not granted , but both will be highly blamable if all the powers granted are not wisely but firmly used to correct these evils . The power to take the whole direction and control of the election of members of the House of Representatives is clearly given to the General Government . A partial and qualified supervision of these elections is now provided for by law , and in my opinion this law may be so strengthened and extended as to secure on the whole better results than can be attained by a law taking all the processes of such election into Federal control . The colored man should be protected in all of his relations to the Federal Government , whether as litigant , juror , or witness in our courts , as an elector for members of Congress , or as a peaceful traveler upon our interstate railways . There is nothing more justly humiliating to the national pride and nothing more hurtful to the national prosperity than the inferiority of our merchant marine compared with that of other nations whose general resources , wealth , and seacoast lines do not suggest any reason for their supremacy on the sea . It was not always so , and our people are agreed , I think , that it shall not continue to be so . It is not possible in this communication to discuss the causes of the decay of our shipping interests or the differing methods by which it is proposed to restore them . The statement of a few well authenticated facts and some general suggestions as to legislation is all that is practicable . That the great steamship lines sailing under the flags of England , France , Germany , Spain , and Italy , and engaged in foreign commerce , were . promoted and have since been and now are liberally aided by grants of public money in one form or another is generally known . That the American lines of steamships have been abandoned by us to an unequal contest with the aided lines of other nations until they have been withdrawn , or in the few cases where they are still maintained are subject to serious disadvantages , is matter of common knowledge . The present situation is such that travelers and merchandise find Liverpool often a necessary intermediate port between New York and some of the South American capitals . The fact that some of the delegates from South American States to the conference of American nations now in session at Washington reached our shores by reversing that line of travel is very conclusive of the need of such a conference and very suggestive as to the first and most necessary step in the direction of fuller and more beneficial intercourse with nations that are now our neighbors upon the lines of latitude , but not upon the lines of established commercial intercourse . I recommend that such appropriations be made for ocean mail service in American steamships between our ports and those of Central and South America , China , Japan , and the important islands in both of the great oceans as will be liberally remunerative for the service rendered and as will encourage the establishment and in some fair degree equalize the chances of American steamship lines in the competitions which they must meet . That the American States lying south of us will cordially cooperate in establishing and maintaining such lines of steamships to their principal ports I do not doubt . We should also make provision for a naval reserve to consist of such merchant ships of American construction and of a specified tonnage and speed as the owners will consent to place at the use of the Government in case of need as armed cruisers . England has adopted this policy , and as a result can now upon necessity at once place upon her naval list some of the fastest steamships in the world . A proper supervision of the construction of such vessels would make their conversion into effective ships of war very easy . I am an advocate of economy in our national expenditures , but it is a misuse of terms to make this word describe a policy that withholds an expenditure for the purpose of extending our foreign commerce . The enlargement and improvement of our merchant marine , the development of a sufficient body of trained American seamen , the promotion of rapid and regular mail communication between the ports of other countries and our own , and the adaptation of large and swift American merchant steamships to naval uses in time of war are public purposes of the highest concern . The enlarged participation of our people in the carrying trade , the new and increased markets that will be opened for the products of our farms and factories , and the fuller and better employment of our mechanics which will result from a liberal promotion of our foreign commerce insure the widest possible diffusion of benefit to all the States and to all our people . Everything is most propitious for the present inauguration of a liberal and progressive policy upon this subject , and we should enter upon it with promptness and decision . The legislation which I have suggested , it is sincerely believed , will promote the peace and honor of our country and the prosperity and security of the people . I invoke the diligent and serious attention of Congress to the consideration of these and such other measures as may be presented having the same great end in view .<speech_sep>To the Senate and House of Representatives In submitting my annual message to Congress I have great satisfaction in being able to say that the general conditions affecting the commercial and industrial interests of the United States are in the highest degree favorable . A comparison of the existing conditions with those of the most favored period in the history of the country will , I believe , show that so high a degree of prosperity and so general a diffusion of the comforts of life were never before enjoyed by our people . The total wealth of the country in 1860 was 16 , 159 , 616 , 068 . In 1890 it amounted to 62 , 610 , 000 , 000 , an increase of 287 per cent . The total mileage of railways in the United States in 1860 was 30 , 626 . In 1890 it was 167 , 741 , an increase of 448 per cent and it is estimated that there will be about 4 , 000 miles of track added by the close of the year 1892 . The official returns of the Eleventh Census and those of the Tenth Census for seventy five leading cities furnish the basis for the following comparisons In 1880 the capital invested in manufacturing was 1 , 232 , 839 , 670 . In 1890 the capital invested in manufacturing was 2 , 900 , 735 , 884 . In 1880 the number of employees was 1 , 301 , 388 . In 1890 the number of employees was 2 , 251 , 134 . In 1880 the wages earned were 501 , 965 , 778 . In 1890 the wages earned were 1 , 221 , 170 , 454 . In 1880 the value of the product was 2 , 711 , 579 , 899 . In 1890 the value of the product was 4 , 860 , 286 , 837 . I am informed by the Superintendent of the Census that the omission of certain industries in 1880 which were included in 1890 accounts in part for the remarkable increase thus shown , but after making full allowance for differences of method and deducting the returns for all industries not included in the census of 1880 there remain in the reports from these seventy five cities an increase in the capital employed of 1 , 522 , 745 , 604 , in the value of the product of 2 , 024 , 236 , 166 , in wages earned of 677 , 943 , 929 , and in the number of wage earners employed of 856 , 029 . The wage earnings not only show an increased aggregate , but an increase per capita from 386 in 1880 to 547 in 1890 , or 41 . 71 per cent . The new industrial plants established since October 6 , 1890 , and up to October 22 , 1892 , as partially reported in the American Economist , number 345 , and the extension of existing plants 108 the new capital invested amounts to 40 , 449 , 050 , and the number of additional employees to 37 , 285 . The Textile World for July , 1892 , states that during the first six months of the present calendar year 135 new factories were built , of which 40 are cotton mills , 48 knitting mills , 26 woolen mills , 15 silk mills , 4 plush mills , and 2 linen mills . Of the 40 cotton mills 21 have been built in the Southern States . Shepperson , of the New York Cotton Exchange , estimates the number of working spindles in the United States on September 1 , 1892 , at 15 , 200 , 000 , an increase of 660 , 000 over the year 1891 . The consumption of cotton by American mills in 1891 was 2 , 396 , 000 bales , and in 1892 2 , 584 , 000 bales , an increase of 188 , 000 bales . From the year 1869 to 1892 , inclusive , there has been an increase in the consumption of cotton in Europe of 92 per cent , while during the same period the increased consumption in the United States has been about 150 per cent . The report of Ira Ayer , special agent of the Treasury Department , shows that at the date of September 30 , 1892 , there were 32 companies manufacturing tin and terne plate in the United States and 14 companies building new works for such manufacture . The estimated investment in buildings and plants at the close of the fiscal year June 30 , 1893 , if existing conditions were to be continued , was 5 , 000 , 000 and the estimated rate of production 200 , 000 , 000 pounds per annum . The actual production for the quarter ending September 30 , 1892 , was 10 , 952 , 725 pounds . The report of Labor Commissioner Peck , of New York , shows that during the year 1891 , in about 6 , 000 manufacturing establishments in that State embraced within the special inquiry made by him , and representing 67 different industries , there was a net increase over the year 1890 of 30 , 315 , 130 . 68 in the value of the product and of 6 , 377 , 925 . 09 in the amount of wages paid . The report of the commissioner of labor for the State of Massachusetts shows that 3 , 745 industries in that State paid 129 , 416 , 248 in wages during the year 1891 , against 126 , 030 , 303 in 1890 , an increase of 3 , 335 , 945 , and that there was an increase of 9 , 932 , 490 in the amount of capital and of 7 , 346 in the number of persons employed in the same period . During the last six months of the year 1891 and the first six months of 1892 the total production of pig iron was 9 , 710 , 819 tons , as against 9 , 202 , 703 tons in the year 1890 , which was the largest annual production ever attained . For the same twelve months of 1891 92 the production of Bessemer ingots was 3 , 878 , 581 tons , an increase of 189 , 710 gross tons over the previously unprecedented yearly production of 3 , 688 , 871 gross tons in 1890 . The production of Bessemer steel rails for the first six months of 1892 was 772 , 436 gross tons , as against 702 , 080 gross tons during the last six months of the year 1891 . The total value of our foreign trade exports and imports of merchandise during the last fiscal year was 1 , 857 , 680 , 610 , an increase of 128 , 283 , 604 over the previous fiscal year . The average annual value of our imports and exports of merchandise for the ten fiscal years prior to 1891 was 1 , 457 , 322 , 019 . It will be observed that our foreign trade for 1892 exceeded this annual average value by 400 , 358 , 591 , an increase of 27 . 47 per cent . The significance and value of this increase are shown by the fact that the excess in the trade of 1892 over 1891 was wholly in the value of exports , for there was a decrease in the value of imports of 17 , 513 , 754 . The value of our exports during the fiscal year 1892 reached the highest figure in the history of the Government , amounting to 1 , 030 , 278 , 148 , exceeding by 145 , 797 , 338 the exports of 1891 and exceeding the value of the imports by 202 , 875 , 686 . A comparison of the value of our exports for 1892 with the annual average for the ten years prior to 1891 shows an excess of 265 , 142 , 651 , or of 34 . 65 per cent . The value of our imports of merchandise for 1892 , which was 829 , 402 , 462 , also exceeded the annual average value of the ten years prior to 1891 by 135 , 215 , 940 . During the fiscal year 1892 the value of imports free of duty amounted to 457 , 999 , 658 , the largest aggregate in the history of our commerce . The value of the imports of merchandise entered free of duty in 1892 was 55 . 35 per cent of the total value of imports , as compared with 43 . 35 per cent in 1891 and 33 . 66 per cent in 1890 . In our coastwise trade a most encouraging development is in progress , there having been in the last four years an increase of 16 per cent . In internal commerce the statistics show that no such period of prosperity has ever before existed . The freight carried in the coastwise trade of the Great Lakes in 1890 aggregated 28 , 295 , 959 tons . On the Mississippi , Missouri , and Ohio rivers and tributaries in the same year the traffic aggregated 29 , 405 , 046 tons , and the total vessel tonnage passing through the Detroit River during that year was 21 , 684 , 000 tons . The vessel tonnage entered and cleared in the foreign trade of London during 1890 amounted to 13 , 480 , 767 tons , and of Liverpool 10 , 941 , 800 tons , a total for these two great shipping ports of 24 , 422 , 568 tons , only slightly in excess of the vessel tonnage passing through the Detroit River . And it should be said that the season for the Detroit River was but 228 days , while of course in London and Liverpool the season was for the entire year . The vessel tonnage passing through the Marys Canal for the fiscal year 1892 amounted to 9 , 828 , 874 tons , and the freight tonnage of the Detroit River is estimated for that year at 25 , 000 , 000 tons , against 23 , 209 , 619 tons in 1891 . The aggregate traffic on our railroads for the year 1891 amounted to 704 , 398 , 609 tons of freight , compared with 691 , 344 , 437 tons in 1890 , an increase of 13 , 054 , 172 tons . Another indication of the general prosperity of the country is found in the fact that the number of depositors in savings banks increased from 693 , 870 in 1860 to 4 , 258 , 893 in 1890 , an increase of 513 per cent , and the amount of deposits from 149 , 277 , 504 in 1860 to 1 , 524 , 844 , 506 in 1890 , an increase of 921 per cent . In 1891 the amount of deposits in savings banks was 1 , 623 , 079 , 749 . It is estimated that 90 per cent of these deposits represent the savings of wage earners . The bank clearances for nine months ending September 30 , 1891 , amounted to 41 , 049 , 390 , 08 . For the same months in 1892 they amounted to 45 , 189 , 601 , 947 , an excess for the nine months of 4 , 140 , 211 , 139 . There never has been a time in our history when work was so abundant or when wages were as high , whether measured by the currency in which they are paid or by their power to supply the necessaries and comforts of life . It is true that the market prices of cotton and wheat have been low . It is one of the unfavorable incidents of agriculture that the farmer can not produce upon orders . He must sow and reap in ignorance of the aggregate production of the year , and is peculiarly subject to the depreciation which follows overproduction . But while the fact I have stated is true as to the crops mentioned , the general average of prices has been such as to give to agriculture a fair participation in the general prosperity . The value of our total farm products has increased from 1 , 363 , 646 , 866 in 1860 to 4 , 500 , 000 , 000 in 1891 , as estimated by statisticians , an increase of 230 per cent . The number of hogs January 1 , 1891 , was 50 , 625 , 106 and their value 210 , 193 , 925 on January 1 , 1892 , the number was 52 , 398 , 019 and the value 241 , 031 , 415 . On January 1 , 1891 , the number of cattle was 36 , 875 , 648 and the value 544 , 127 , 908 on January 1 , 1892 , the number was 37 , 651 , 239 and the value 570 , 749 , 155 . If any are discontented with their state here , if any believe that wages or prices , the returns for honest toil , are inadequate , they should not fail to remember that there is no other country in the world where the conditions that seem to them hard would not be accepted as highly prosperous . The English agriculturist would be glad to exchange the returns of his labor for those of the American farmer and the Manchester workmen their wages for those of their fellows at Fall River . I believe that the protective system , which has now for something more than thirty years continuously prevailed in our legislation , has been a mighty instrument for the development of our national wealth and a most powerful agency in protecting the homes of our workingmen from the invasion of want . I have felt a most solicitous interest to preserve to our working people rates of wages that would not only give daily bread but supply a comfortable margin for those home attractions and family comforts and enjoyments without which life is neither hopeful nor sweet . They are American citizens a part of the great people for whom our Constitution and Government were framed and instituted and it can not be a perversion of that Constitution to so legislate as to preserve in their homes the comfort , independence , loyalty , and sense of interest in the Government which are essential to good citizenship in peace , and which will bring this stalwart throng , as in 1861 , to the defense of the flag when it is assailed . It is not my purpose to renew here the argument in favor of a protective tariff . The result of the recent election must be accepted as having introduced a new policy . We must assume that the present tariff , constructed upon the lines of protection , is to be repealed and that there is to be substituted for it a tariff law constructed solely with reference to revenue that no duty is to be higher because the increase will keep open an American mill or keep up the wages of an American workman , but that in every case such a rate of duty is to be imposed as will bring to the Treasury of the United States the largest returns of revenue . The contention has not been between schedules , but between principles , and it would be offensive to suggest that the prevailing party will not carry into legislation the principles advocated by it and the pledges given to the people . The tariff bills passed by the House of Representatives at the last session were , as I suppose , even in the opinion of their promoters , inadequate , and justified only by the fact that the Senate and House of Representatives were not in accord and that a general revision could not therefore be undertaken . I recommend that the whole subject of tariff revision be left to the incoming Congress . It is matter of regret that this work must be delayed for at least three months , for the threat of great tariff changes introduces so much uncertainty that an amount , not easily estimated , of business inaction and of diminished production will necessarily result . It is possible also that this uncertainty may result in decreased revenues from customs duties , for our merchants will make cautious orders for foreign goods in view of the prospect of tariff reductions and the uncertainty as to when they will take effect . Those who have advocated a protective tariff can well afford to have their disastrous forecasts of a change of policy disappointed . If a system of customs duties can be framed that will set the idle wheels and looms of Europe in motion and crowd our warehouses with foreign made goods and at the same time keep our own mills busy that will give us an increased participation in the markets of the world of greater value than the home market we surrender that will give increased work to foreign workmen upon products to be consumed by our people without diminishing the amount of work to be done here that will enable the American manufacturer to pay to his workmen from 50 to 100 per cent more in wages than is paid in the foreign mill , and yet to compete in our market and in foreign markets with the foreign producer that will further reduce the cost of articles of wear and food without reducing the wages of those who produce them that can be celebrated , after its effects have been realized , as its expectation has been in European as well as in American cities , the authors and promoters of it will be entitled to the highest praise . We have had in our history several experiences of the contrasted effects of a revenue and of a protective tariff , but this generation has not felt them , and the experience of one generation is not highly instructive to the next . The friends of the protective system with undiminished confidence in the principles they have advocated will await the results of the new experiment . The strained and too often disturbed relations existing between the employees and the employers in our great manufacturing establishments have not been favorable to a calm consideration by the wage earner of the effect upon wages of the protective system . The facts that his wages were the highest paid in like callings in the world and that a maintenance of this rate of wages in the absence of protective duties upon the product of his labor was impossible were obscured by the passion evoked by these contests . He may now be able to review the question in the light of his personal experience under the operation of a tariff for revenue only . If that experience shall demonstrate that present rates of wages are thereby maintained or increased , either absolutely or in their purchasing power , and that the aggregate volume of work to be done in this country is increased or even maintained , so that there are more or as many days work in a year , at as good or better wages , for the American workmen as has been the case under the protective system , everyone will rejoice . A general process of wage reduction can not be contemplated by any patriotic citizen without the gravest apprehension . It may be , indeed I believe is , possible for the American manufacturer to compete successfully with his foreign rival in many branches of production without the defense of protective duties if the pay rolls are equalized but the conflict that stands between the producer and that result and the distress of our working people when it is attained are not pleasant to contemplate . The Society of the Unemployed , now holding its frequent and threatening parades in the streets of foreign cities , should not be allowed to acquire an American domicile . The reports of the heads of the several Executive Departments , which are herewith submitted , have very naturally included a resume of the whole work of the Administration with the transactions of the last fiscal year . The attention not only of Congress but of the country is again invited to the methods of administration which have been pursued and to the results which have been attained . Public revenues amounting to 1 , 414 , 079 , 292 . 28 have been collected and disbursed without loss from misappropriation , without a single defalcation of such importance as to attract the public attention , and at a diminished per cent of cost for collection . The public business has been transacted not only with fidelity , but progressively and with a view to giving to the people in the fullest possible degree the benefits of a service established and maintained for their protection and comfort . Our relations with other nations are now undisturbed by any serious controversy . The complicated and threatening differences with Germany and England relating to Samoan affairs , with England in relation to the seal fisheries in the Bering Sea , and with Chile growing out of the Baltimore affair have been adjusted . There have been negotiated and concluded , under section 3 of the tariff law , commercial agreements relating to reciprocal trade with the following countries Brazil , Dominican Republic , Spain for Cuba and Puerto Rico , Guatemala , Salvador , the German Empire , Great Britain for certain West Indian colonies and British Guiana , Nicaragua , Honduras , and Austria Hungary . Of these , those with Guatemala , Salvador , the German Empire , Great Britain , Nicaragua , Honduras , and Austria Hungary have been concluded since my last annual message . Under these trade arrangements a free or favored admission has been secured in every case for an important list of American products . Especial care has been taken to secure markets for farm products , in order to relieve that great underlying industry of the depression which the lack of an adequate foreign market for our surplus often brings . An opening has also been made for manufactured products that will undoubtedly , if this policy is maintained , greatly augment our export trade . The full benefits of these arrangements can not be realized instantly . New lines of trade are to be opened . The commercial traveler must survey the field . The manufacturer must adapt his goods to the new markets and facilities for exchange must be established . This work has been well begun , our merchants and manufacturers having entered the new fields with courage and enterprise . In the case of food products , and especially with Cuba , the trade did not need to wait , and the immediate results have been most gratifying . If this policy and these trade arrangements can be continued in force and aided by the establishment of American steamship lines , I do not doubt that we shall within a short period secure fully one third of the total trade of the countries of Central and South America , which now amounts to about 600 , 000 , 000 annually . In 1885 we had only 8 per cent of this trade . The following statistics show the increase in our trade with the countries with which we have reciprocal trade agreements from the date when such agreements went into effect up to September 30 , 1892 , the increase being in some almost wholly and in others in an important degree the result of these agreements The domestic exports to Germany and Austria Hungary have increased in value from 47 , 673 , 756 to 57 , 993 , 064 , an increase of 10 , 319 , 308 , or 21 . 63 per cent . With American countries the value of our exports has increased from 44 , 160 , 285 to 54 , 613 , 598 , an increase of 10 , 453 , 313 , or 23 . 67 per cent . The total increase in the value of exports to all the countries with which we have reciprocity agreements has been 20 , 772 , 621 . This increase is chiefly in wheat , flour , meat , and dairy products and in manufactures of iron and steel and lumber . There has been a large increase in the value of imports from all these countries since the commercial agreements went into effect , amounting to 74 , 294 , 525 , but it has been entirely in imports from the American countries , consisting mostly of sugar , coffee , india rubber , and crude drugs . The alarmed attention of our European competitors for the South American market has been attracted to this new American policy and to our acquisition and their loss of South American trade . A treaty providing for the arbitration of the dispute between Great Britain and the United States as to the killing of seals in the Bering Sea was concluded on the 29th of February last . This treaty was accompanied by an agreement prohibiting pelagic sealing pending the arbitration , and a vigorous effort was made during this season to drive out all poaching sealers from the Bering Sea . Six naval vessels , three revenue cutters , and one vessel from the Fish Commission , all under the command of Commander Evans , of the Navy , were sent into the sea , which was systematically patrolled . Some seizures were made , and it is believed that the catch in the Bering Sea by poachers amounted to less than 500 seals . It is true , however , that in the North Pacific , while the seal herds were on their way to the passes between the Aleutian Islands , a very large number , probably 35 , 000 , were taken . The existing statutes of the United States do not restrain our citizens from taking seals in the Pacific Ocean , and perhaps should not unless the prohibition can be extended to the citizens of other nations . I recommend that power be given to the President by proclamation to prohibit the taking of seals in the North Pacific by American vessels in case , either as the result of the findings of the Tribunal of Arbitration or otherwise , the restraints can be applied to the vessels of all countries . The case of the United States for the Tribunal of Arbitration has been prepared with great care and industry by the John Foster , and the counsel who represent this Government express confidence that a result substantially establishing our claims and preserving this great industry for the benefit of all nations will be attained . During the past year a suggestion was received through the British minister that the Canadian government would like to confer as to the possibility of enlarging upon terms of mutual advantage the commercial exchanges of Canada and of the United States , and a conference was held at Washington , with Blaine acting for this Government and the British minister at this capital and three members of the Dominion cabinet acting as commissioners on the part of Great Britain . The conference developed the fact that the Canadian government was only prepared to offer to the United States in exchange for the concessions asked the admission of natural products . The statement was frankly made that favored rates could not be given to the United States as against the mother country . This admission , which was foreseen , necessarily terminated the conference upon this question . The benefits of an exchange of natural products would be almost wholly with the people of Canada . Some other topics of interest were considered in the conference , and have resulted in the making of a convention for examining the Alaskan boundary and the waters of Passamaquoddy Bay adjacent to Eastport , Me . , and in the initiation of an arrangement for the protection of fish life in the coterminous and neighboring waters of our northern border . The controversy as to tolls upon the Welland Canal , which was presented to Congress at the last session by special message , having failed of adjustment , I felt constrained to exercise the authority conferred by the act of July 26 , 1892 , and to proclaim a suspension of the free use of Marys Falls Canal to cargoes in transit to ports in Canada . The Secretary of the Treasury established such tolls as were thought to be equivalent to the exactions unjustly levied upon our commerce in the Canadian canals . If , as we must suppose , the political relations of Canada and the disposition of the Canadian government are to remain unchanged , a somewhat radical revision of our trade relations should , I think , be made . Our relations must continue to be intimate , and they should be friendly . I regret to say , however , that in many of the controversies , notably those as to the fisheries on the Atlantic , the sealing interests on the Pacific , and the canal tolls , our negotiations with Great Britain have continuously been thwarted or retarded by unreasonable and unfriendly objections and protests from Canada in the matter of the canal tolls our treaty rights were flagrantly disregarded . It is hardly too much to say that the Canadian Pacific and other railway lines which parallel our northern boundary are sustained by commerce having either its origin or terminus , or both , in the United States . Canadian railroads compete with those of the United States for our traffic , and without the restraints of our interstate commerce act . Their cars pass almost without detention into and out of our territory . The Canadian Pacific Railway brought into the United States from China and Japan via British Columbia during the year ended June 30 , 1892 , 23 , 239 , 689 pounds of freight , and it carried from the United States , to be shipped to China and Japan via British Columbia , 24 , 068 , 346 pounds of freight . There were also shipped from the United States over this road from Eastern ports of the United States to our Pacific ports during the same year 13 , 912 , 073 pounds of freight , and there were received over this road at the United States Eastern ports from ports on the Pacific Coast 13 , 293 , 315 pounds of freight . Joseph Nimmo , jr . , former chief of the Bureau of Statistics , when before the Senate Select Committee on Relations with Canada , April 26 , 1890 , said that the value of goods thus transported between different points in the United States across Canadian territory probably amounts to 100 , 000 , 000 a year . There is no disposition on the part of the people or Government of the United States to interfere in the smallest degree with the political relations of Canada . That question is wholly with her own people . It is time for us , however , to consider whether , if the present state of things and trend of things is to continue , our interchanges upon lines of land transportation should not be put upon a different basis and our entire independence of Canadian canals and of the Lawrence as an outlet to the sea secured by the construction of an American canal around the Falls of Niagara and the opening of ship communication between the Great Lakes and one of our own seaports . We should not hesitate to avail ourselves of our great natural trade advantages . We should withdraw the support which is given to the railroads and steamship lines of Canada by a traffic that properly belongs to us and no longer furnish the earnings which lighten the otherwise crushing weight of the enormous public subsidies that have been given to them . The subject of the power of the Treasury to deal with this matter without further legislation has been under consideration , but circumstances have postponed a conclusion . It is probable that a consideration of the propriety of a modification or abrogation of the article of the treaty of Washington relating to the transit of goods in bond is involved in any complete solution of the question . Congress at the last session was kept advised of the progress of the serious and for a time threatening difference between the United States and Chile . It gives me now great gratification to report that the Chilean Government in a most friendly and honorable spirit has tendered and paid as an indemnity to the families of the sailors of the Baltimore who were killed and to those who were injured in the outbreak in the city of Valparaiso the sum of 75 , 000 . This has been accepted not only as an indemnity for a wrong done , but as a most gratifying evidence that the Government of Chile rightly appreciates the disposition of this Government to act in a spirit of the most absolute fairness and friendliness in our intercourse with that brave people . A further and conclusive evidence of the mutual respect and confidence now existing is furnished by the fact that a convention submitting to arbitration the mutual claims of the citizens of the respective Governments has been agreed upon . Some of these claims have been pending for many years and have been the occasion of much unsatisfactory diplomatic correspondence . I have endeavored in every way to assure our sister Republics of Central and South America that the United States Government and its people have only the most friendly disposition toward them all . We do not covet their territory . We have no disposition to be oppressive or exacting in our dealings with any of them , even the weakest . Our interests and our hopes for them all lie in the direction of stable governments by their people and of the largest development of their great commercial resources . The mutual benefits of enlarged commercial exchanges and of a more familiar and friendly intercourse between our peoples we do desire , and in this have sought their friendly cooperation . I have believed , however , while holding these sentiments in the greatest sincerity , that we must insist upon a just responsibility for any injuries inflicted upon our official representatives or upon our citizens . This insistence , kindly and justly but firmly made , will , I believe , promote peace and mutual respect . Our relations with Hawaii have been such as to attract an increased interest , and must continue to do so . I deem it of great importance that the projected submarine cable , a survey for which has been made , should be promoted . Both for naval and commercial uses we should have quick communication with Honolulu . We should before this have availed ourselves of the concession made many years ago to this Government for a harbor and naval station at Pearl River . Many evidences of the friendliness of the Hawaiian Government have been given in the past , and it is gratifying to believe that the advantage and necessity of a continuance of very close relations is appreciated . The friendly act of this Government in expressing to the Government of Italy its reprobation and abhorrence of the lynching of Italian subjects in New Orleans by the payment of 125 , 000 francs , or 24 , 330 . 90 , was accepted by the King of Italy with every manifestation of gracious appreciation , and the incident has been highly promotive of mutual respect and good will . In consequence of the action of the French Government in proclaiming a protectorate over certain tribal districts of the west coast of Africa eastward of the San Pedro River , which has long been regarded as the southeastern boundary of Liberia , I have felt constrained to make protest against this encroachment upon the territory of a Republic which was rounded by citizens of the United States and toward which this country has for many years held the intimate relation of a friendly counselor . The recent disturbances of the public peace by lawless foreign marauders on the Mexican frontier have afforded this Government an opportunity to testify its good will for Mexico and its earnest purpose to fulfill the obligations of international friendship by pursuing and dispersing the evil doers . The work of relocating the boundary of the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo westward from El Paso is progressing favorably . Our intercourse with Spain continues on a friendly footing . I regret , however , not to be able to report as yet the adjustment of the claims of the American missionaries arising from the disorders at Ponape , in the Caroline Islands , but I anticipate a satisfactory adjustment in view of renewed and urgent representations to the Government at Madrid . The treatment of the religious and educational establishments of American citizens in Turkey has of late called for a more than usual share of attention . A tendency to curtail the toleration which has so beneficially prevailed is discernible and has called forth the earnest remonstrance of this Government . Harassing regulations in regard to schools and churches have been attempted in certain localities , but not without due protest and the assertion of the inherent and conventional rights of our countrymen . Violations of domicile and search of the persons and effects of citizens of the United States by apparently irresponsible officials in the Asiatic vilayets have from time to time been reported . An aggravated instance of injury to the property of an American missionary at Bourdour , in the province of Konia , cal1ed forth an urgent claim for reparation , which I am pleased to say was promptly heeded by the Government of the Porte . Interference with the trading ventures of our citizens in Asia Minor is also reported , and the lack of consular representation in that region is a serious drawback to instant and effective protection . I can not believe that these incidents represent a settled policy , and shall not cease to urge the adoption of proper remedies . International copyright has been extended to Italy by proclamation in conformity with the act of March 3 , 1891 , upon assurance being given that Italian law permits to citizens of the United States the benefit of copyright on substantially the same basis as to subjects of Italy . By a special convention proclaimed January 15 , 1892 , reciprocal provisions of copyright have been applied between the United States and Germany . Negotiations are in progress with other countries to the same end . I repeat with great earnestness the recommendation which I have made in several previous messages that prompt and adequate support be given to the American company engaged in the construction of the Nicaragua ship canal . It is impossible to overstate the value from every standpoint of this great enterprise , and I hope that there may be time , even in this Congress , to give to it an impetus that will insure the early completion of the canal and secure to the United States its proper relation to it when completed . The Congress has been already advised that the invitations of this Government for the assembling of an international monetary conference to consider the question of an enlarged use of silver were accepted by the nations to which they were addressed . The conference assembled at Brussels on the 22d of November , and has entered upon the consideration of this great question . I have not doubted , and have taken occasion to express that belief as well in the invitations issued for this conference as in my public messages , that the free coinage of silver upon an agreed international ratio would greatly promote the interests of our people and equally those of other nations . It is too early to predict what results may be accomplished by the conference . If any temporary check or delay intervenes , I believe that very soon commercial conditions will compel the now reluctant governments to unite with us in this movement to secure the enlargement of the volume of coined money needed for the transaction of the business of the world . The report of the Secretary of the Treasury will attract especial interest in view of the many misleading statements that have been made as to the state of the public revenues . Three preliminary facts should not only be stated but emphasized before looking into details First , that the public debt has been reduced since March 4 , 1889 , 259 , 074 , 200 , and the annual interest charge 11 , 684 , 469 second , that there have been paid out for pensions during this Administration up to November 1 , 1892 , 432 , 564 , 178 . 70 , an excess of 114 , 466 , 386 . 09 over the sum expended during the period from March 1 , 1885 , to March 1 , 1889 and , third , that under the existing tariff up to December 1 about 93 , 000 , 000 of revenue which would have been collected upon imported sugars if the duty had been maintained has gone into the pockets of the people , and not into the public Treasury , as before . If there are any who still think that the surplus should have been kept out of circulation by hoarding it in the Treasury , or deposited in favored banks without interest while the Government continued to pay to these very banks interest upon the bonds deposited as security for the deposits , or who think that the extended pension legislation was a public robbery , or that the duties upon sugar should have been maintained , I am content to leave the argument where it now rests while we wait to see whether these criticisms will take the form of legislation . The revenues for the fiscal year ending June 30 , 1892 , from all sources were 425 , 868 , 260 . 22 , and the expenditures for all purposes were 415 , 953 , 806 . 56 , leaving a balance of 9 , 914 , 453 . 66 . There were paid during the year upon the public debt 40 , 570 , 467 . 98 . The surplus in the Treasury and the bank redemption fund passed by the act of July 14 , 1890 , to the general fund furnished in large part the cash available and used for the payments made upon the public debt . Compared with the year 1891 , our receipts from customs duties fell off 42 , 069 , 241 . 08 , while our receipts from internal revenue increased 8 , 284 , 823 . 13 , leaving the net loss of revenue from these principal sources 33 , 784 , 417 . 95 . The net loss of revenue from all sources was 32 , 675 , 972 . 81 . The revenues , estimated and actual , for the fiscal year ending June 30 , 1893 , are placed by the Secretary at 463 , 336 , 350 . 44 , and the expenditures at 461 , 336 , 350 . 44 , showing a surplus of receipts over expenditures of 2 , 000 , 000 . The cash balance in the Treasury at the end of the fiscal year it is estimated will be 20 , 992 , 377 . 03 . So far as these figures are based upon estimates of receipts and expenditures for the remaining months of the current fiscal year , there are not only the usual elements of uncertainty , but some added elements . New revenue legislation , or even the expectation of it , may seriously reduce the public revenues during the period of uncertainty and during the process of business adjustment to the new conditions when they become known . But the Secretary has very wisely refrained from guessing as to the effect of possible changes in our revenue laws , since the scope of those changes and the time of their taking effect can not in any degree be forecast or foretold by him . His estimates must be based upon existing laws and upon a continuance of existing business conditions , except so far as these conditions may be affected by causes other than new legislation . The estimated receipts for the fiscal year ending June 30 , 1894 , are 490 , 121 , 365 . 38 , and the estimated appropriations 457 , 261 , 335 . 33 , leaving an estimated surplus of receipts over expenditures of 32 , 860 , 030 . 05 . This does not include any payment to the sinking fund . In the recommendation of the Secretary that the sinking fund law be repealed I concur . The redemption of bonds since the passage of the law to June 30 , 1892 , has already exceeded the requirements by the sum of 990 , 510 , 681 . 49 . The retirement of bonds in the future before maturity should be a matter of convenience , not of compulsion . We should not collect revenue for that purpose , but only use any casual surplus . To the balance of 32 , 860 , 030 . 05 of receipts over expenditures for the year 1894 should be added the estimated surplus at the beginning of the year , 20 , 992 , 377 . 03 , and from this aggregate there must be deducted , as stated by the Secretary , about 44 , 000 , 000 of estimated unexpended appropriations . The public confidence in the purpose and ability of the Government to maintain the parity of all of our money issues , whether coin or paper , must remain unshaken . The demand for gold in Europe and the consequent calls upon us are in a considerable degree the result of the efforts of some of the European Governments to increase their gold reserves , and these efforts should be met by appropriate legislation on our part . The conditions that have created this drain of the Treasury gold are in an important degree political , and not commercial . In view of the fact that a general revision of our revenue laws in the near future seems to be probable , it would be better that any changes should be a part of that revision rather than of a temporary nature . During the last fiscal year the Secretary purchased under the act of July 14 , 1890 , 54 , 355 , 748 ounces of silver and issued in payment therefor 51 , 106 , 608 in notes . The total purchases since the passage of the act have been 120 , 479 , 981 ounces and the aggregate of notes issued 116 , 783 , 590 . The average price paid for silver during the year was 94 cents per ounce , the highest price being 1 . 02 3 4 July 1 , 1891 , and the lowest 83 cents March 21 , 1892 . In view of the fact that the monetary conference is now sitting and that no conclusion has yet been reached , I withhold any recommendation as to legislation upon this subject . The report of the Secretary of War brings again to the attention of Congress some important suggestions as to the reorganization of the infantry and artillery arms of the service , which his predecessors have before urgently presented . Our Army is small , but its organization should all the more be put upon the most approved modern basis . The conditions upon what we have called the frontier have heretofore required the maintenance of many small posts , but now the policy of concentration is obviously the right one . The new posts should have the proper strategic relations to the only frontiers we now have those of the seacoast and of our northern and part of our southern boundary . I do not think that any question of advantage to localities or to States should determine the location of the new posts . The reorganization and enlargement of the Bureau of Military Information which the Secretary has effected is a work the usefulness of which will become every year more apparent . The work of building heavy guns and the construction of coast defenses has been well begun and should be carried on without check . The report of the Attorney General is by law submitted directly to Congress , but I can not refrain from saying that he has conducted the increasing work of the Department of Justice with great professional skill . He has in several directions secured from the courts decisions giving increased protection to the officers of the United States and bringing some classes of crime that escaped local cognizance and punishment into the tribunals of the United States , where they could be tried with impartiality . The numerous applications for Executive clemency presented in behalf of persons convicted in United States courts and given penitentiary sentences have called my attention to a fact referred to by the Attorney General in his report , namely , that a time allowance for good behavior for such prisoners is prescribed by the Federal statutes only where the State in which the penitentiary is located has made no such provision . Prisoners are given the benefit of the provisions of the State law regulating the penitentiary to which they may be sent . These are various , some perhaps too liberal and some perhaps too illiberal . The result is that a sentence for five years means one thing if the prisoner is sent to one State for confinement and quite a different thing if he is sent to another . I recommend that a uniform credit for good behavior be prescribed by Congress . I have before expressed my concurrence in the recommendation of the Attorney General that degrees of murder should be recognized in the Federal statutes , as they are , I believe , in all the States . These grades are rounded on correct distinctions in crime . The recognition of them would enable the courts to exercise some discretion in apportioning punishment and would greatly relieve the Executive of what is coming to be a very heavy burden the examination of these cases on application for commutation . The aggregate of claims pending against the Government in the Court of Claims is enormous . Claims to the amount of nearly 400 , 000 , 000 for the taking of or injury to the property of persons claiming to be loyal during the war are now before that court for examination . When to these are added the Indian depredation claims and the French spoliation claims , an aggregate is reached that is indeed startling . In the defense of all these cases the Government is at great disadvantage . The claimants have preserved their evidence , whereas the agents of the Government are sent into the field to rummage for what they can find . This difficulty is peculiarly great where the fact to be established is the disloyalty of the claimant during the war . If this great threat against our revenues is to have no other check , certainly Congress should supply the Department of Justice with appropriations sufficiently liberal to secure the best legal talent in the defense of these claims and to pursue its vague search for evidence effectively . The report of the Postmaster General shows a most gratifying increase and a most efficient and progressive management of the great business of that Department . The remarkable increase in revenues , in the number of post offices , and in the miles of mail carriage furnishes further evidence of the high state of prosperity which our people are enjoying . New offices mean new hamlets and towns , new routes mean the extension of our border settlements , and increased revenues mean an active commerce . The Postmaster General reviews the whole period of his administration of the office and brings some of his statistics down to the month of November last . The postal revenues have increased during the last year nearly 5 , 000 , 000 . The deficit for the year ending June 30 , 1892 , is 848 , 341 less than the deficiency of the preceding year . The deficiency of the present fiscal year it is estimated will be reduced to 1 , 552 , 423 , which will not only be extinguished during the next fiscal year but a surplus of nearly 1 , 000 , 000 should then be shown . In these calculations the payments to be made under the contracts for ocean mail service have not been included . There have been added 1 , 590 new mail routes during the year , with a mileage of 8 , 563 miles , and the total number of new miles of mail trips added during the year is nearly 17 , 000 , 000 . The number of miles of mail journeys added during the last four years is about 76 , 000 , 000 , this addition being 21 , 000 , 000 miles more than were in operation in the whole country in 1861 . The number of post offices has been increased by 2 , 790 during the year , and during the past four years , and up to October 29 last , the total increase in the number of offices has been nearly 9 , 000 . The number of free delivery offices has been nearly doubled in the last four years , and the number of money order offices more than doubled within that time . For the three years ending June 30 , 1892 , the postal revenue amounted to 197 , 744 , 359 , which was an increase of 52 , 263 , 150 over the revenue for the three years ending June 30 , 1888 , the increase during the last three years being more than three and a half times as great as the increase during the three years ending June 30 , 1888 . No such increase as that shown for these three years has ever previously appeared in the revenues of the Department . The Postmaster General has extended to the post offices in the larger cities the merit system of promotion introduced by my direction into the Departments here , and it has resulted there , as in the Departments , in a larger volume of work and that better done . Ever since our merchant marine was driven from the sea by the rebel cruisers during the War of the Rebellion the United States has been paying an enormous annual tribute to foreign countries in the shape of freight and passage moneys . Our grain and meats have been taken at our own docks and our large imports there laid down by foreign shipmasters . An increasing torrent of American travel to Europe has contributed a vast sum annually to the dividends of foreign shipowners . The balance of trade shown by the books of our custom houses has been very largely reduced and in many years altogether extinguished by this constant drain . In the year 1892 only 12 . 3 per cent of our imports were brought in American vessels . These great foreign steamships maintained by our traffic are many of them under contracts with their respective Governments by which in time of war they will become a part of their armed naval establishments . Profiting by our commerce in peace , they will become the most formidable destroyers of our commerce in time of war . I have felt , and have before expressed the feeling , that this condition of things was both intolerable and disgraceful . A wholesome change of policy , and one having in it much promise , as it seems to me , was begun by the law of March 3 , 1891 . Under this law contracts have been made by the Postmaster General for eleven mail routes . The expenditure involved by these contracts for the next fiscal year approximates 954 , 123 . 33 . As one of the results already reached sixteen American steamships , of an aggregate tonnage of 57 , 400 tons , costing 7 , 400 , 000 , have been built or contracted to be built in American shipyards . The estimated tonnage of all steamships required under existing contracts is 165 , 802 , and when the full service required by these contracts is established there will be forty one mail steamers under the American flag , with the probability of further necessary additions in the Brazilian and Argentine service . The contracts recently let for transatlantic service will result in the construction of five ships of 10 , 000 tons each , costing 9 , 000 , 000 to 10 , 000 , 000 , and will add , with the City of New York and City of Paris , to which the Treasury Department was authorized by legislation at the last session to give American registry , seven of the swiftest vessels upon the sea to our naval reserve . The contracts made with the lines sailing to Central and South American ports have increased the frequency and shortened the time of the trips , added new ports of call , and sustained some lines that otherwise would almost certainly have been withdrawn . The service to Buenos Ayres is the first to the Argentine Republic under the American flag . The service to Southampton , Boulogne , and Antwerp is also new , and is to be begun with the steamships City of New York and City of Paris in February next . I earnestly urge the continuance of the policy inaugurated by this legislation , and that the appropriations required to meet the obligations of the Government under the contracts may be made promptly , so that the lines that have entered into these engagements may not be embarrassed . We have had , by reason of connections with the transcontinental railway lines constructed through our own territory , some advantages in the ocean trade of the Pacific that we did not possess on the Atlantic . The construction of the Canadian Pacific Railway and the establishment under large subventions from Canada and England of fast steamship service from Vancouver with Japan and China seriously threaten our shipping interests in the Pacific . This line of English steamers receives , as is stated by the Commissioner of Navigation , a direct subsidy of 400 , 000 annually , or 30 , 767 per trip for thirteen voyages , in addition to some further aid from the Admiralty in connection with contracts under which the vessels may be used for naval purposes . The competing American Pacific mail line under the act of March 3 , 1891 , receives only 6 , 389 per round trip . Efforts have been making within the last year , as I am informed , to establish under similar conditions a line between Vancouver and some Australian port , with a view of seizing there a trade in which we have had a large interest . The Commissioner of Navigation states that a very large per cent of our imports from Asia are now brought to us by English steamships and their connecting railways in Canada . With a view of promoting this trade , especially in tea , Canada has imposed a discriminating duty of 10 per cent upon tea and coffee brought into the Dominion from the United States . If this unequal contest between American lines without subsidy , or with diminished subsidies , and the English Canadian line to which I have referred is to continue , I think we should at least see that the facilities for customs entry and transportation across our territory are not such as to make the Canadian route a favored one , and that the discrimination as to duties to which I have referred is met by a like discrimination as to the importation of these articles from Canada . No subject , I think , more nearly touches the pride , the power , and the prosperity of our country than this of the development of our merchant marine upon the sea . If we could enter into conference with other competitors and all would agree to withhold government aid , we could perhaps take our chances with the rest but our great competitors have established and maintained their lines by government subsidies until they now have practically excluded us from participation . In my opinion no choice is left to us but to pursue , moderately at least , the same lines . The report of the Secretary of the Navy exhibits great progress in the construction of our new Navy . When the present Secretary entered upon his duties , only 3 modern steel vessels were in commission . The vessels since put in commission and to be put in commission during the winter will make a total of 19 during his administration of the Department . During the current year 10 war vessels and 3 navy tugs have been launched , and during the four years 25 vessels will have been launched . Two other large ships and a torpedo boat are under contract and the work upon them well advanced , and the 4 monitors are awaiting only the arrival of their armor , which has been unexpectedly delayed , or they would have been before this in commission . Contracts have been let during this Administration , under the appropriations for the increase of the Navy , including new vessels and their appurtenances , to the amount of 35 , 000 , 000 , and there has been expended during the same period for labor at navy yards upon similar work 8 , 000 , 000 without the smallest scandal or charge of fraud or partiality . The enthusiasm and interest of our naval officers , both of the staff and line , have been greatly kindled . They have responded magnificently to the confidence of Congress and have demonstrated to the world an unexcelled capacity in construction , in ordnance , and in everything involved in the building , equipping , and sailing of great war ships . At the beginning of Secretary Tracy s administration several difficult problems remained to be grappled with and solved before the efficiency in action of our ships could be secured . It is believed that as the result of new processes in the construction of armor plate our later ships will be clothed with defensive plates of higher resisting power than are found on any war vessels afloat . We were without torpedoes . Tests have been made to ascertain the relative efficiency of different constructions , a torpedo has been adopted , and the work of construction is now being carried on successfully . We were without armor piercing shells and without a shop instructed and equipped for the construction of them . We are now making what is believed to be a projectile superior to any before in use . A smokeless powder has been developed and a slow burning powder for guns of large caliber . A high explosive capable of use in shells fired from service guns has been found , and the manufacture of gun cotton has been developed so that the question of supply is no longer in doubt . The development of a naval militia , which has been organized in eight States and brought into cordial and cooperative relations with the Navy , is another important achievement . There are now enlisted in these organizations 1 , 800 men , and they are likely to be greatly extended . I recommend such legislation and appropriations as will encourage and develop this movement . The recommendations of the Secretary will , I do not doubt , receive the friendly consideration of Congress , for he has enjoyed , as he has deserved , the confidence of all those interested in the development of our Navy , without any division upon partisan lines . I earnestly express the hope that a work which has made such noble progress may not now be stayed . The wholesome influence for peace and the increased sense of security which our citizens domiciled in other lands feel when these magnificent ships under the American flag appear is already most gratefully apparent . The ships from our Navy which will appear in the great naval parade next April in the harbor of New York will be a convincing demonstration to the world that the United States is again a naval power . The work of the Interior Department , always very burdensome , has been larger than ever before during the administration of Secretary Noble . The disability pension law , the taking of the Eleventh Census , the opening of vast areas of Indian lands to settlement , the organization of Oklahoma , and the negotiations for the cession of Indian lands furnish some of the particulars of the increased work , and the results achieved testify to the ability , fidelity , and industry of the head of the Department and his efficient assistants . Several important agreements for the cession of Indian lands negotiated by the commission appointed under the act of March 2 , 1889 , are awaiting the action of Congress . Perhaps the most important of these is that for the cession of the Cherokee Strip . This region has been the source of great vexation to the executive department and of great friction and unrest between the settlers who desire to occupy it and the Indians who assert title . The agreement which has been made by the commission is perhaps the most satisfactory that could have been reached . It will be noticed that it is conditioned upon its ratification by Congress before March 4 , 1893 . The Secretary of the Interior , who has given the subject very careful thought , recommends the ratification of the agreement , and I am inclined to follow his recommendation . Certain it is that some action by which this controversy shall be brought to an end and these lands opened to settlement is urgent . The form of government provided by Congress on May 17 , 1884 , for Alaska was in its frame and purpose temporary . The increase of population and the development of some important mining and commercial interests make it imperative that the law should be revised and better provision made for the arrest and punishment of criminals . The report of the Secretary shows a very gratifying state of facts as to the condition of the General Land Office . The work of issuing agricultural patents , which seemed to be hopelessly in arrear when the present Secretary undertook the duties of his office , has been so expedited that the bureau is now upon current business . The relief thus afforded to honest and worthy settlers upon the public lands by giving to them an assured title to their entries has been of incalculable benefit in developing the new States and the Territories . The Court of Private Land Claims , established by Congress for the promotion of this policy of speedily settling contested land titles , is making satisfactory progress in its work , and when the work is completed a great impetus will be given to the development of those regions where unsettled claims under Mexican grants have so long exercised their repressive influence . When to these results are added the enormous cessions of Indian lands which have been opened to settlement , aggregating during this Administration nearly 26 , 000 , 000 acres , and the agreements negotiated and now pending in Congress for ratification by which about 10 , 000 , 000 additional acres will be opened to settlement , it will be seen how much has been accomplished . The work in the Indian Bureau in the execution of the policy of recent legislation has been largely directed to two chief purposes First , the allotment of lands in severalty to the Indians and the cession to the United States of the surplus lands , and , secondly , to the work of educating the Indian for his own protection in his closer contact with the white man and for the intelligent exercise of his new citizenship . Allotments have been made and patents issued to 5 , 900 Indians under the present Secretary and Commissioner , and 7 , 600 additional allotments have been made for which patents are now in process of preparation . The school attendance of Indian children has been increased during that time over 13 per cent , the enrollment for 1892 being nearly 20 , 000 . A uniform system of school text books and of study has been adopted and the work in these national schools brought as near as may be to the basis of the free common schools of the States . These schools can be transferred and merged into the common school systems of the States when the Indian has fully assumed his new relation to the organized civil community in which he resides and the new States are able to assume the burden . I have several times been called upon to remove Indian agents appointed by me , and have done so promptly upon every sustained complaint of unfitness or misconduct . I believe , however , that the Indian service at the agencies has been improved and is now administered on the whole with a good degree of efficiency . If any legislation is possible by which the selection of Indian agents can be wholly removed from all partisan suggestions or considerations , I am sure it would be a great relief to the Executive and a great benefit to the service . The appropriation for the subsistence of the Cheyenne and Arapahoe Indians made at the last session of Congress was inadequate . This smaller appropriation was estimated for by the Commissioner upon the theory that the large fund belonging to the tribe in the public Treasury could be and ought to be used for their support . In view , however , of the pending depredation claims against this fund and other considerations , the Secretary of the Interior on the 12th of April last submitted a supplemental estimate for 50 , 000 . This appropriation was not made , as it should have been , and the oversight ought to be remedied at the earliest possible date . In a special message to this Congress at the last session , I stated the reasons why I had not approved the deed for the release to the United States by the Choctaws and Chickasaws of the lands formerly embraced in the Cheyenne and Arapahoe Reservation and remaining after allotments to that tribe . A resolution of the Senate expressing the opinion of that body that notwithstanding the facts stated in my special message the deed should be approved and the money , 2 , 991 , 450 , paid over was presented to me May 10 , 1892 . My special message was intended to call the attention of Congress to the subject , and in view of the fact that it is conceded that the appropriation proceeded upon a false basis as to the amount of lands to be paid for and is by 50 , 000 in excess of the amount they are entitled to even if their claim to the land is given full recognition at the rate agreed upon , I have not felt willing to approve the deed , and shall not do so , at least until both Houses of Congress have acted upon the subject . It has been informally proposed by the claimants to release this sum of 50 , 000 , but I have no power to demand or accept such a release , and such an agreement would be without consideration and void . I desire further to call the attention of Congress to the fact that the recent agreement concluded with the Kiowas and Comanches relates to lands which were a part of the leased district , and to which the claim of the Choctaws and Chickasaws is precisely that recognized by Congress in the legislation I have referred to . The surplus lands to which this claim would attach in the Kiowa and Comanche Reservation is 2 , 500 , 000 acres , and at the same rate the Government will be called upon to pay to the Choctaws and Chickasaws for these lands 3 , 125 , 000 . This sum will be further augmented , especially if the title of the Indians to the tract now Greet County , Tex . , is established . The duty devolved upon me in this connection was simply to pass upon the form of the deed but as in my opinion the facts mentioned in my special message were not adequately brought to the attention of Congress in connection with the legislation , I have felt that I would not be justified in acting without some new expression of the legislative will . The report of the Commissioner of Pensions , to which extended notice is given by the Secretary of the Interior in his report , will attract great attention . Judged by the aggregate amount of work done , the last year has been the greatest in the history of the office . I believe that the organization of the office is efficient and that the work has been done with fidelity . The passage of what is known as the disability bill has , as was foreseen , very largely increased the annual disbursements to the disabled veterans of the Civil War . The estimate for this fiscal year was 144 , 956 , 000 , and that amount was appropriated . A deficiency amounting to 10 , 508 , 621 must be provided for at this session . The estimate for pensions for the fiscal year ending June 30 , 1894 , is 165 , 000 , 000 . The Commissioner of Pensions believes that if the present legislation and methods are maintained and further additions to the pension laws are not made the maximum expenditure for pensions will be reached June 30 , 1894 , and will be at the highest point 188 , 000 , 000 per annum . I adhere to the views expressed in previous messages that the care of the disabled soldiers of the War of the Rebellion is a matter of national concern and duty . Perhaps no emotion cools sooner than that of gratitude , but I can not believe that this process has yet reached a point with our people that would sustain the policy of remitting the care of these disabled veterans to the inadequate agencies provided by local laws . The parade on the 20th of September last upon the streets of this capital of 60 , 000 of the surviving Union veterans of the War of the Rebellion was a most touching and thrilling episode , and the rich and gracious welcome extended to them by the District of Columbia and the applause that greeted their progress from tens of thousands of people from all the States did much to revive the glorious recollections of the Grand Review when these men and many thousand others now in their graves were welcomed with grateful joy as victors in a struggle in which the national unity , honor , and wealth were all at issue . In my last annual message I called attention to the fact that some legislative action was necessary in order to protect the interests of the Government in its relations with the Union Pacific Railway . The Commissioner of Railroads has submitted a very full report , giving exact information as to the debt , the liens upon the company s property , and its resources . We must deal with the question as we find it and take that course which will under existing conditions best secure the interests of the United States . I recommended in my last annual message that a commission be appointed to deal with this question , and I renew that recommendation and suggest that the commission be given full power . The report of the Secretary of Agriculture contains not only a most interesting statement of the progressive and valuable work done under the administration of Secretary Rusk , but many suggestions for the enlarged usefulness of this important Department . In the successful efforts to break down the restrictions to the free introduction of our meat products in the countries of Europe the Secretary has been untiring from the first , stimulating and aiding all other Government officers at home and abroad whose official duties enabled them to participate in the work . The total trade in hog products with Europe in May , 1892 , amounted to 82 , 000 , 000 pounds , against 46 , 900 , 000 in the same month of 1891 in June , 1892 , the export aggregated 85 , 700 , 000 pounds , against 46 , 500 , 000 pounds in the same month of the previous year in July there was an increase of 41 per cent and in August of 55 per cent over the corresponding months of 1891 . Over 40 , 000 , 000 pounds of inspected pork have been exported since the law was put into operation , and a comparison of the four months of May , June , July , and August , 1892 , with the same months of 1891 shows an increase in the number of pounds of our export of pork products of 62 per cent and an increase in value of 66 1 2 per cent . The exports of dressed beef increased from 137 , 900 , 000 pounds in 1889 to 220 , 500 , 000 pounds in 1892 or about 60 per cent . During the past year there have been exported 394 , 607 head of live cattle , as against 205 , 786 exported in 1889 . This increased exportation has been largely promoted by the inspection authorized by law and the faithful efforts of the Secretary and his efficient subordinates to make that inspection thorough and to carefully exclude from all cargoes diseased or suspected cattle . The requirement of the English regulations that live cattle arriving from the United States must be slaughtered at the docks had its origin in the claim that pleuro pneumonia existed among American cattle and that the existence of the disease could only certainly be determined by a post mortem inspection . The Department of Agriculture has labored with great energy and faithfulness to extirpate this disease , and on the 26th day of September last a public announcement was made by the Secretary that the disease no longer existed anywhere within the United States . He is entirely satisfied after the most searching inquiry that this statement was justified , and that by a continuance of the inspection and quarantine now required of cattle brought into this country the disease can be prevented from again getting any foothold . The value to the cattle industry of the United States of this achievement can hardly be estimated . We can not , perhaps , at once insist that this evidence shall be accepted as satisfactory by other countries but if the present exemption from the disease is maintained and the inspection of our cattle arriving at foreign ports , in which our own veterinarians participate , confirms it , we may justly expect that the requirement that our cattle shall be slaughtered at the docks will be revoked , as the sanitary restrictions upon our pork products have been . If our cattle can be taken alive to the interior , the trade will be enormously increased . Agricultural products constituted 78 . 1 per cent of our unprecedented exports for the fiscal year which closed June 30 , 1892 , the total exports being 1 , 030 , 278 , 030 and the value of the agricultural products 793 , 717 , 676 , which exceeds by more than 150 , 000 , 000 the shipment of agricultural products in any previous year . An interesting and a promising work for the benefit of the American farmer has been begun through agents of the Agricultural Department in Europe , and consists in efforts to introduce the various products of Indian corn as articles of human food . The high price of rye offered a favorable opportunity for the experiment in Germany of combining corn meal with rye to produce a cheaper bread . A fair degree of success has been attained , and some mills for grinding corn for food have been introduced . The Secretary is of the opinion that this new use of the products of corn has already stimulated exportations , and that if diligently prosecuted large and important markets can presently be opened for this great American product . The suggestions of the Secretary for an enlargement of the work of the Department are commended to your favorable consideration . It may , I think , be said without challenge that in no corresponding period has so much been done as during the last four years for the benefit of American agriculture . The subject of quarantine regulations , inspection , and control was brought suddenly to my attention by the arrival at our ports in August last of vessels infected with cholera . Quarantine regulations should be uniform at all our ports . Under the Constitution they are plainly within the exclusive Federal jurisdiction when and so far as Congress shall legislate . In my opinion the whole subject should be taken into national control and adequate power given to the Executive to protect our people against plague invasions . On the 1st of September last I approved regulations establishing a twenty day quarantine for all vessels bringing immigrants from foreign ports . This order will be continued in force . Some loss and suffering have resulted to passengers , but a due care for the homes of our people justifies in such cases the utmost precaution . There is danger that with the coming of spring cholera will again appear , and a liberal appropriation should be made at this session to enable our quarantine and port officers to exclude the deadly plague . But the most careful and stringent quarantine regulations may not be sufficient absolutely to exclude the disease . The progress of medical and sanitary science has been such , however , that if approved precautions are taken at once to put all of our cities and towns in the best sanitary condition , and provision is made for isolating any sporadic cases and for a thorough disinfection , an epidemic can , I am sure , be avoided . This work appertains to the local authorities , and the responsibility and the penalty will be appalling if it is neglected or unduly delayed . We are peculiarly subject in our great ports to the spread of infectious diseases by reason of the fact that unrestricted immigration brings to us out of European cities , in the overcrowded steerages of great steamships , a large number of persons whose surroundings make them the easy victims of the plague . This consideration , as well as those affecting the political , moral , and industrial interests of our country , leads me to renew the suggestion that admission to our country and to the high privileges of its citizenship should be more restricted and more careful . We have , I think , a right and owe a duty to our own people , and especially to our working people , not only to keep out the vicious , the ignorant , the civil disturber , the pauper , and the contract laborer , but to check the too great flow of immigration now coming by further limitations . The report of the World s Columbian Exposition has not yet been submitted . That of the board of management of the Government exhibit has been received and is herewith transmitted . The work of construction and of preparation for the opening of the exposition in May next has progressed most satisfactorily and upon a scale of liberality and magnificence that will worthily sustain the honor of the United States . The District of Columbia is left by a decision of the supreme court of the District without any law regulating the liquor traffic . An old statute of the legislature of the District relating to the licensing of various vocations has hitherto been treated by the Commissioners as giving them power to grant or refuse licenses to sell intoxicating liquors and as subjecting those who sold without licenses to penalties but in May last the supreme court of the District held against this view of the powers of the Commissioners . It is of urgent importance , therefore , that Congress should supply , either by direct enactment or by conferring discretionary powers upon the Commissioners , proper limitations and restraints upon the liquor traffic in the District . The District has suffered in its reputation by many crimes of violence , a large per cent of them resulting from drunkenness and the liquor traffic . The capital of the nation should be freed from this reproach by the enactment of stringent restrictions and limitations upon the traffic . In renewing the recommendation which I have made in three preceding annual messages that Congress should legislate for the protection of railroad employees against the dangers incident to the old and inadequate methods of braking and coupling which are still in use upon freight trains , I do so with the hope that this Congress may take action upon the subject . Statistics furnished by the Interstate Commerce Commission show that during the year ending June 30 , 1891 , there were forty seven different styles of car couplers reported to be in use , and that during the same period there were 2 , 660 employees killed and 26 , 140 injured . Nearly 16 per cent of the deaths occurred in the coupling and uncoupling of cars and over 36 per cent of the injuries had the same origin . The Civil Service Commission ask for an increased appropriation for needed clerical assistance , which I think should be given . I extended the classified service March 1 , 1892 , to include physicians , superintendents , assistant superintendents , school teachers , and matrons in the Indian service , and have had under consideration the subject of some further extensions , but have not as yet fully determined the lines upon which extensions can most properly and usefully be made . I have in each of the three annual messages which it has been my duty to submit to Congress called attention to the evils and dangers connected with our election methods and practices as they are related to the choice of officers of the National Government . In my last annual message I endeavored to invoke serious attention to the evils of unfair apportionments for Congress . I can not close this message without again calling attention to these grave and threatening evils . I had hoped that it was possible to secure a nonpartisan inquiry by means of a commission into evils the existence of which is known to all , and that out of this might grow legislation from which all thought of partisan advantage should be eliminated and only the higher thought appear of maintaining the freedom and purity of the ballot and the equality of the elector , without the guaranty of which the Government could never have been formed and without the continuance of which it can not continue to exist in peace and prosperity . It is time that mutual charges of unfairness and fraud between the great parties should cease and that the sincerity of those who profess a desire for pure and honest elections should be brought to the test of their willingness to free our legislation and our election methods from everything that tends to impair the public confidence in the announced result . The necessity for an inquiry and for legislation by Congress upon this subject is emphasized by the fact that the tendency of the legislation in some States in recent years has in some important particulars been away from and not toward free and fair elections and equal apportionments . Is it not time that we should come together upon the high plane of patriotism while we devise methods that shall secure the right of every man qualified by law to cast a free ballot and give to every such ballot an equal value in choosing our public officers and in directing the policy of the Government Lawlessness is not less such , but more , where it usurps the functions of the peace officer and of the courts . The frequent lynching of colored people accused of crime is without the excuse , which has sometimes been urged by mobs for a failure to pursue the appointed methods for the punishment of crime , that the accused have an undue influence over courts and juries . Such acts are a reproach to the community where they occur , and so far as they can be made the subject of Federal jurisdiction the strongest repressive legislation is demanded . A public sentiment that will sustain the officers of the law in resisting mobs and in protecting accused persons in their custody should be promoted by every possible means . The officer who gives his life in the brave discharge of this duty is worthy of special honor . No lesson needs to be so urgently impressed upon our people as this , that no worthy end or cause can be promoted by lawlessness . This exhibit of the work of the Executive Departments is submitted to Congress and to the public in the hope that there will be found in it a due sense of responsibility and an earnest purpose to maintain the national honor and to promote the happiness and prosperity of all our people , and this brief exhibit of the growth and prosperity of the country will give us a level from which to note the increase or decadence that new legislative policies may bring to us . There is no reason why the national influence , power , and prosperity should not observe the same rates of increase that have characterized the past thirty years . We carry the great impulse and increase of these years into the future . There is no reason why in many lines of production we should not surpass all other nations , as we have already done in some . There are no near frontiers to our possible development . Retrogression would be a crime .<speech_sep>