During the wars which for some time have unhappily prevailed among the powers of Europe the United States of America , firm in their principles of peace , have endeavored , by justice , by a regular discharge of all their national and social duties , and by every friendly office their situation has admitted , to maintain with all the belligerents their accustomed relations of friendship , hospitality , and commercial intercourse . Taking no part in the questions which animate these powers against each other , nor permitting themselves to entertain a wish but for the restoration of general peace , they have observed with good faith the neutrality they assumed , and they believe that no instance of a departure from its duties can be justly imputed to them by any nation . A free use of their harbors and waters , the means of refitting and of refreshment , of succor to their sick and suffering , have at all times and on equal principles been extended to all , and this , too , amidst a constant recurrence of acts of insubordination to the laws , of violence to the persons , and of trespasses on the property of our citizens committed by officers of one of the belligerent parties received among us . In truth , these abuses of the laws of hospitality have , with few exceptions , become habitual to the commanders of the British armed vessels hovering on our coasts and frequenting our harbors . They have been the subject of repeated representations to their Government . Assurances have been given that proper orders should restrain them within the limits of the rights and of the respect due to a friendly nation but those orders and assurances have been without effect no instance of punishment for past wrongs has taken place . At length a deed transcending all we have hitherto seen or suffered brings the public sensibility to a serious crisis and our forbearance to a necessary pause . A frigate of the United States , trusting to a state of peace , and leaving her harbor on a distant service , has been surprised and attacked by a British vessel of superior force one of a squadron then lying in our waters and covering the transaction and has been disabled from service , with the loss of a number of men killed and wounded . This enormity was not only without provocation or justifiable cause , but was committed with the avowed purpose of taking by force from a ship of war of the United States a part of her crew and that no circumstance might be wanting to mark its character , it had been previously ascertained that the seamen demanded were native citizens of the United States . Having effected her purpose , she returned to anchor with her squadron within our jurisdiction . Hospitality under such circumstances ceases to be a duty , and a continuance of it with such uncontrolled abuses would tend only , by multiplying injuries and irritations , to bring on a rupture between the two nations . This extreme resort is equally opposed to the interests of both , as it is to assurances of the most friendly dispositions on the part of the British Government , in the midst of which this outrage has been committed . In this light the subject can not but present itself to that Government and strengthen the motives to an honorable reparation of the wrong which has been done , and to that effectual control of its naval commanders which alone can justify the Government of the United States in the exercise of those hospitalities it is now constrained to discontinue . In consideration of these circumstances and of the right of every nation to regulate its own police , to provide for its peace and for the safety of its citizens , and consequently to refuse the admission of armed vessels into its harbors or waters , either in such numbers or of such descriptions as are inconsistent with these or with the maintenance of the authority of the laws , I have thought proper , in pursuance of the authorities specially given by law , to issue this my proclamation , hereby requiring all armed vessels bearing commissions under the Government of Great Britain now within the harbors or waters of the United States immediately and without any delay to depart from the same , and interdicting the entrance of all the said harbors and waters to the said armed vessels and to all others bearing commissions under the authority Of the British Government . And if the said vessels , or any of them , shall fall to depart as aforesaid , or if they or any others so interdicted shall hereafter enter the harbors or waters aforesaid , I do in that case forbid all intercourse with them , or any of them , their officers or crews , and do prohibit all supplies and aid from being furnished to them , or any of them . And I do declare and make known that if any person from or within the jurisdictional limits of the United States shall afford any aid to any such vessel contrary to the prohibition contained in this proclamation , either in repairing any such vessel or in furnishing her , her officers or crew , with supplies of any kind or in any manner whatsoever or if any pilot shall assist in navigating any of the said armed vessels , unless it be for the purpose of carrying them in the first instance beyond the limits and jurisdiction of the United States , or unless it be in the case of a vessel forced by distress or charged with public dispatches , as hereinafter provided for , such person or persons shall on conviction suffer all the pains and penalties by the laws provided for such offenses . And I do hereby enjoin and require all persons bearing office , civil or military , within or under the authority of the United States , and all others citizens or inhabitants thereof , or being within the same , with vigilance and promptitude to exert their respective authorities and to be aiding and assisting to the carrying this proclamation and every part thereof into full effect . Provided , nevertheless , that if any such vessel shall be forced into the harbors or waters of the United States by distress , by the dangers of the sea , or by the pursuit of an enemy , or shall enter them charged with dispatches or business from their Government , or shall be a public packet for the conveyance of letters and dispatches , the commanding officer , immediately reporting his vessel to the collector of the district , stating the object or causes of entering the said harbors or waters , and conforming himself to the regulations in that case prescribed under the authority of the laws , shall be allowed the benefit of such regulations respecting repairs , supplies , stay , intercourse , and departure as shall be permitted under the same authority . In testimony whereof I have caused the seal of the United States to be affixed to these presents , and signed the same . Given at the city of Washington , the 2d day of July , 1807 , and of the Sovereignty and Independence of the United States the thirty first . TJEFFERSOBy the President JAMES MADISOSecretary of State .<speech_sep>TO THE SENATE AND HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES OF THE UNITED STATES In compliance with the request of the House of Representatives , expressed in their resolution of the 5th instant , I proceed to give such information as is possessed , of the effect of gun boats in the protection and defense of harbors , of the numbers thought necessary , and of the proposed distribution of them among the ports and harbors of the United States . Under the present circumstances , and governed by the intentions of the legislature , as manifested by their annual appropriations of money for the purposes of defence , it has been concluded to combine 1st , land batteries , furnished with heavy cannon and mortars , and established on all the points around the place favorable for preventing vessels from lying before it 2d , movable artillery which may be carried , as an occasion may require , to points unprovided with fixed batteries 3d , floating batteries and 4th , gun boats , which may oppose an enemy at its entrance and co operate with the batteries for his expulsion . On this subject professional men were consulted as far as we had opportunity . General Wilkinson , and the late General Gates , gave their opinions in writing , in favor of the system , as will be seen by their letters now communicated . The higher officers of the navy gave the same opinions in separate conferences , as their presence at the seat of government offered occasions of consulting them , and no difference of judgment appeared on the subjects . Those of Commodore Barron and Captain Tingey , now here , are recently furnished in writing , and transmitted herewith to the legislature . The efficacy of gun boats for the defence of harbors , and of other smooth and enclosed waters , may be estimated in part from that of galleys , formerly much used , but less powerful , more costly in their construction and maintenance , and requiring more men . But the gun boat itself is believed to be in use with every modern maritime nation for the purpose of defence . In the Mediterranean , on which are several small powers , whose system like ours is peace and defence , few harbors are without this article of protection . Our own experience there of the effect of gun boats for harbor service , is recent . Algiers is particularly known to have owed to a great provision of these vessels the safety of its city , since the epoch of their construction . Before that it had been repeatedly insulted and injured . The effect of gun boats at present in the neighborhood of Gibraltar , is well known , and how much they were used both in the attack and defence of that place during a former war . The extensive resort to them by the two greatest naval powers in the world , on an enterprise of invasion not long since in prospect , shows their confidence in their efficacy for the purposes for which they are suited . By the northern powers of Europe , whose seas are particularly adapted to them , they are still more used . The remarkable action between the Russian flotilla of gun boats and galleys , and a Turkish fleet of ships of the line and frigates , in the Liman sea , 1788 , will be readily recollected . The latter , commanded by their most celebrated admiral , were completely defeated , and several of their ships of the line destroyed . From the opinions given as to the number of gun boats necessary for some of the principal seaports , and from a view of all the towns and ports from Orleans to Maine inclusive , entitled to protection , in proportion to their situation and circumstances , it is concluded , that to give them a due measure of protection in time of war , about two hundred gun boats will be requisite . According to first ideas , the following would be their general distribution , liable to be varied on more mature examination , and as circumstances shall vary , that is to say To the Mississippi and its neighboring waters , forty gun boats . To Savannah and Charleston , and the harbors on each side , from Mary s to Currituck , twenty five . To the Chesapeake and its waters , twenty . To Delaware bay and river , fifteen . To New York , the Sound , and waters as far as Cape Cod , fifty . To Boston and the harbors north of Cape Cod , fifty . The flotilla assigned to these several stations , might each be under the care of a particular commandant , and the vessels composing them would , in ordinary , be distributed among the harbors within the station in proportion to their importance . Of these boats a proper proportion would be of the larger size , such as those heretofore built , capable of navigating any seas , and of reinforcing occasionally the strength of even the most distant port when menaced with danger . The residue would be confined to their own or the neighboring harbors , would be smaller , less furnished for accommodation , and consequently less costly . Of the number supposed necessary , seventy three are built or building , and the hundred and twenty seven still to be provided , would cost from five to six hundred thousand dollars . Having regard to the convenience of the treasury , as well as to the resources of building , it has been thought that one half of these might be built in the present year , and the other half the next . With the legislature , however , it will rest to stop where we are , or at any further point , when they shall be of opinion that the number provided shall be sufficient for the object . At times when Europe as well as the United States shall be at peace , it would not be proposed that more than six or eight of these vessels should be kept afloat . When Europe is in war , treble that number might be necessary to be distributed among those particular harbors which foreign vessels of war are in the habit of frequenting , for the purpose of preserving order therein . But they would be manned , in ordinary , with only their complement for navigation , relying on the seamen and militia of the port if called into action on sudden emergency . It would be only when the United States should themselves be at war , that the whole number would be brought into actual service , and would be ready in the first moments of the war to co operate with other means for covering at once the line of our seaports . At all times , those unemployed would be withdrawn into places not exposed to sudden enterprise , hauled up under sheds from the sun and weather , and kept in preservation with little expense for repairs or maintenance . It must be superfluous to observe , that this species of naval armament is proposed merely for defensive operation that it can have but little effect toward protecting our commerce in the open seas even on our coast and still less can it become an excitement to engage in offensive maritime war , toward which it would furnish no means .<speech_sep>FELLOW CITIZENS OF THE SENATE AND HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVEIt is a circumstance of sincere gratification to me that on meeting the great council of our nation , I am able to announce to them , on the grounds of reasonable certainty , that the wars and troubles which have for so many years afflicted our sister nations have at length come to an end , and that the communications of peace and commerce are once more opening among them . While we devoutly return thanks to the beneficent Being who has been pleased to breathe into them the spirit of conciliation and forgiveness , we are bound with peculiar gratitude to be thankful to him that our own peace has been preserved through so perilous a season , and ourselves permitted quietly to cultivate the earth and to practice and improve those arts which tend to increase our comforts . The assurances , indeed , of friendly disposition , received from all the powers with whom we have principal relations , had inspired a confidence that our peace with them would not have been disturbed . But a cessation of the irregularities which had effected the commerce of neutral nations , and of the irritations and injuries produced by them , cannot but add to this confidence and strengthens , at the same time , the hope , that wrongs committed on offending friends , under a pressure of circumstances , will now be reviewed with candor , and will be considered as founding just claims of retribution for the past and new assurances for the future . Among our Indian neighbors , also , a spirit of peace and friendship generally prevailing and I am happy to inform you that the continued efforts to introduce among them the implements and the practice of husbandry , and of the household arts , have not been without success that they are becoming more and more sensible of the superiority of this dependence for clothing and subsistence over the precarious resources of hunting and fishing and already we are able to announce , that instead of that constant diminution of their numbers , produced by their wars and their wants , some of them begin to experience an increase of population . To this state of general peace with which we have been blessed , one only exception exists . Tripoli , the least considerable of the Barbary States , had come forward with demands unfounded either in right or in compact , and had permitted itself to denounce war , on our failure to comply before a given day . The style of the demand admitted but one answer . I sent a small squadron of frigates into the Mediterranean , with assurances to that power of our sincere desire to remain in peace , but with orders to protect our commerce against the threatened attack . The measure was seasonable and salutary . The bey had already declared war in form . His cruisers were out . Two had arrived at Gibraltar . Our commerce in the Mediterranean was blockaded , and that of the Atlantic in peril . The arrival of our squadron dispelled the danger . One of the Tripolitan cruisers having fallen in with , and engaged the small schooner Enterprise , commanded by Lieutenant Sterret , which had gone as a tender to our larger vessels , was captured , after a heavy slaughter of her men , without the loss of a single one on our part . The bravery exhibited by our citizens on that element , will , I trust , be a testimony to the world that it is not the want of that virtue which makes us seek their peace , but a conscientious desire to direct the energies of our nation to the multiplication of the human race , and not to its destruction . Unauthorized by the constitution , without the sanction of Congress , to go out beyond the line of defence , the vessel being disabled from committing further hostilities , was liberated with its crew . The legislature will doubtless consider whether , by authorizing measures of offence , also , they will place our force on an equal footing with that of its adversaries . I communicate all material information on this subject , that in the exercise of the important function considered by the constitution to the legislature exclusively , their judgment may form itself on a knowledge and consideration of every circumstance of weight . I wish I could say that our situation with all the other Barbary states was entirely satisfactory . Discovering that some delays had taken place in the performance of certain articles stipulated by us , I thought it my duty , by immediate measures for fulfilling them , to vindicate to ourselves the right of considering the effect of departure from stipulation on their side . From the papers which will be laid before you , you will be enabled to judge whether our treaties are regarded by them as fixing at all the measure of their demands , or as guarding from the exercise of force our vessels within their power and to consider how far it will be safe and expedient to leave our affairs with them in their present posture . I lay before you the result of the census lately taken of our inhabitants , to a conformity with which we are to reduce the ensuing rates of representation and taxation . You will perceive that the increase of numbers during the last ten years , proceeding in geometrical ratio , promises a duplication in little more than twenty two years . We contemplate this rapid growth , and the prospect it holds up to us , not with a view to the injuries it may enable us to do to others in some future day , but to the settlement of the extensive country still remaining vacant within our limits , to the multiplications of men susceptible of happiness , educated in the love of order , habituated to self government , and value its blessings above all price . Other circumstances , combined with the increase of numbers , have produced an augmentation of revenue arising from consumption , in a ratio far beyond that of population alone , and though the changes of foreign relations now taking place so desirably for the world , may for a season affect this branch of revenue , yet , weighing all probabilities of expense , as well as of income , there is reasonable ground of confidence that we may now safely dispense with all the internal taxes , comprehending excises , stamps , auctions , licenses , carriages , and refined sugars , to which the postage on newspapers may be added , to facilitate the progress of information , and that the remaining sources of revenue will be sufficient to provide for the support of government to pay the interest on the public debts , and to discharge the principals in shorter periods than the laws or the general expectations had contemplated . War , indeed , and untoward events , may change this prospect of things , and call for expenses which the imposts could not meet but sound principles will not justify our taxing the industry of our fellow citizens to accumulate treasure for wars to happen we know not when , and which might not perhaps happen but from the temptations offered by that treasure . These views , however , of reducing our burdens , are formed on the expectation that a sensible , and at the same time a salutary reduction , may take place in our habitual expenditures . For this purpose , those of the civil government , the army , and navy , will need revisal . When we consider that this government is charged with the external and mutual relations only of these states that the states themselves have principal care of our persons , our property , and our reputation , constituting the great field of human concerns , we may well doubt whether our organization is not too complicated , too expensive whether offices or officers have not been multiplied unnecessarily , and sometimes injuriously to the service they were meant to promote . I will cause to be laid before you an essay toward a statement of those who , under public employment of various kinds , draw money from the treasury or from our citizens . Time has not permitted a perfect enumeration , the ramifications of office being too multipled and remote to be completely traced in a first trial . Among those who are dependent on executive discretion , I have begun the reduction of what was deemed necessary . The expenses of diplomatic agency have been considerably diminished . The inspectors of internal revenue who were found to obstruct the accountability of the institution , have been discontinued . Several agencies created by executive authority , on salaries fixed by that also , have been suppressed , and should suggest the expediency of regulating that power by law , so as to subject its exercises to legislative inspection and sanction . Other reformations of the same kind will be pursued with that caution which is requisite in removing useless things , not to injure what is retained . But the great mass of public offices is established by law , and , therefore , by law alone can be abolished . Should the legislature think it expedient to pass this roll in review , and try all its parts by the test of public utility , they may be assured of every aid and light which executive information can yield . Considering the general tendency to multiply offices and dependencies , and to increase expense to the ultimate term of burden which the citizen can bear , it behooves us to avail ourselves of every occasion which presents itself for taking off the surcharge that it may never be seen here that , after leaving to labor the smallest portion of its earnings on which it can subsist , government shall itself consume the residue of what it was instituted to guard . In our care , too , of the public contributions intrusted to our direction , it would be prudent to multiply barriers against their dissipation , by appropriating specific sums to every specific purpose susceptible of definition by disallowing applications of money varying from the appropriation in object , or transcending it in amount by reducing the undefined field of contingencies , and thereby circumscribing discretionary powers over money and by bringing back to a single department all accountabilities for money where the examination may be prompt , efficacious , and uniform . An account of the receipts and expenditures of the last year , as prepared by the secretary of the treasury , will as usual be laid before you . The success which has attended the late sales of the public lands , shows that with attention they may be made an important source of receipt . Among the payments , those made in discharge of the principal and interest of the national debt , will show that the public faith has been exactly maintained . To these will be added an estimate of appropriations necessary for the ensuing year . This last will of course be effected by such modifications of the systems of expense , as you shall think proper to adopt . A statement has been formed by the secretary of war , on mature consideration , of all the posts and stations where garrisons will be expedient , and of the number of men requisite for each garrison . The whole amount is considerably short of the present military establishment . For the surplus no particular use can be pointed out . For defence against invasion , their number is as nothing nor is it conceived needful or safe that a standing army should be kept up in time of peace for that purpose . Uncertain as we must ever be of the particular point in our circumference where an enemy may choose to invade us , the only force which can be ready at every point and competent to oppose them , is the body of neighboring citizens as formed into a militia . On these , collected from the parts most convenient , in numbers proportioned to the invading foe , it is best to rely , not only to meet the first attack , but if it threatens to be permanent , to maintain the defence until regulars may be engaged to relieve them . These considerations render it important that we should at every session continue to amend the defects which from time to time show themselves in the laws for regulating the militia , until they are sufficiently perfect . Nor should we now or at any time separate , until we can say we have done everything for the militia which we could do were an enemy at our door . The provisions of military stores on hand will be laid before you , that you may judge of the additions still requisite . With respect to the extent to which our naval preparations should be carried , some difference of opinion may be expected to appear but just attention to the circumstances of every part of the Union will doubtless reconcile all . A small force will probably continue to be wanted for actual service in the Mediterranean . Whatever annual sum beyond that you may think proper to appropriate to naval preparations , would perhaps be better employed in providing those articles which may be kept without waste or consumption , and be in readiness when any exigence calls them into use . Progress has been made , as will appear by papers now communicated , in providing materials for seventy four gun ships as directed by law . How far the authority given by the legislature for procuring and establishing sites for naval purposes has been perfectly understood and pursued in the execution , admits of some doubt . A statement of the expenses already incurred on that subject , shall be laid before you . I have in certain cases suspended or slackened these expenditures , that the legislature might determine whether so many yards are necessary as have been contemplated . The works at this place are among those permitted to go on and five of the seven frigates directed to be laid up , have been brought and laid up here , where , besides the safety of their position , they are under the eye of the executive administration , as well as of its agents and where yourselves also will be guided by your own view in the legislative provisions respecting them which may from time to time be necessary . They are preserved in such condition , as well the vessels as whatever belongs to them , as to be at all times ready for sea on a short warning . Two others are yet to be laid up so soon as they shall have reserved the repairs requisite to put them also into sound condition . As a superintending officer will be necessary at each yard , his duties and emoluments , hitherto fixed by the executive , will be a more proper subject for legislation . A communication will also be made of our progress in the execution of the law respecting the vessels directed to be sold . The fortifications of our harbors , more or less advanced , present considerations of great difficulty . While some of them are on a scale sufficiently proportioned to the advantages of their position , to the efficacy of their protection , and the importance of the points within it , others are so extensive , will cost so much in their first erection , so much in their maintenance , and require such a force to garrison them , as to make it questionable what is best now to be done . A statement of those commenced or projected , of the expenses already incurred , and estimates of their future cost , so far as can be foreseen , shall be laid before you , that you may be enabled to judge whether any attention is necessary in the laws respecting this subject . Agriculture , manufactures , commerce , and navigation , the four pillars of our prosperity , are the most thriving when left most free to individual enterprise . Protection from casual embarrassments , however , may sometimes be seasonably interposed . If in the course of your observations or inquiries they should appear to need any aid within the limits of our constitutional powers , your sense of their importance is a sufficient assurance they will occupy your attention . We cannot , indeed , but all feel an anxious solicitude for the difficulties under which our carrying trade will soon be placed . How far it can be relieved , otherwise than by time , is a subject of important consideration . The judiciary system of the United States , and especially that portion of it recently erected , will of course present itself to the contemplation of Congress and that they may be able to judge of the proportion which the institution bears to the business it has to perform , I have caused to be procured from the several States , and now lay before Congress , an exact statement of all the causes decided since the first establishment of the courts , and of those which were depending when additional courts and judges were brought in to their aid . And while on the judiciary organization , it will be worthy your consideration , whether the protection of the inestimable institution of juries has been extended to all the cases involving the security of our persons and property . Their impartial selection also being essential to their value , we ought further to consider whether that is sufficiently secured in those States where they are named by a marshal depending on executive will , or designated by the court or by officers dependent on them . I cannot omit recommending a revisal of the laws on the subject of naturalization . Considering the ordinary chances of human life , a denial of citizenship under a residence of fourteen years is a denial to a great proportion of those who ask it , and controls a policy pursued from their first settlement by many of these States , and still believed of consequence to their prosperity . And shall we refuse the unhappy fugitives from distress that hospitality which the savages of the wilderness extended to our fathers arriving in this land Shall oppressed humanity find no asylum on this globe The constitution , indeed , has wisely provided that , for admission to certain offices of important trust , a residence shall be required sufficient to develop character and design . But might not the general character and capabilities of a citizen be safely communicated to every one manifesting a _bona fide_ purpose of embarking his life and fortunes permanently with us with restrictions , perhaps , to guard against the fraudulent usurpation of our flag an abuse which brings so much embarrassment and loss on the genuine citizen , and so much danger to the nation of being involved in war , that no endeavor should be spared to detect and suppress it . These , fellow citizens , are the matters respecting the state of the nation , which I have thought of importance to be submitted to your consideration at this time . Some others of less moment , or not yet ready for communication , will be the subject of separate messages . I am happy in this opportunity of committing the arduous affairs of our government to the collected wisdom of the Union . Nothing shall be wanting on my part to inform , as far as in my power , the legislative judgment , nor to carry that judgment into faithful execution . The prudence and temperance of your discussions will promote , within your own walls , that conciliation which so much befriends national conclusion and by its example will encourage among our constituents that progress of opinion which is tending to unite them in object and in will . That all should be satisfied with any one order of things is not to be expected , but I indulge the pleasing persuasion that the great body of our citizens will cordially concur in honest and disinterested efforts , which have for their object to preserve the general and State governments in their constitutional form and equilibrium to maintain peace abroad , and order and obedience to the laws at home to establish principles and practices of administration favorable to the security of liberty and prosperity , and to reduce expenses to what is necessary for the useful purposes of government .<speech_sep>TO THE SENATE AND HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES OF THE UNITED STATEIn calling you together , fellow citizens , at an earlier day than was contemplated by the act of the last session of Congress , I have not been insensible to the personal inconveniences necessarily resulting from an unexpected change in your arrangements . But matters of great public concernment have rendered this call necessary , and the interest you feel in these will supersede in your minds all private considerations . Congress witnessed , at their last session , the extraordinary agitation produced in the public mind by the suspension of our right of deposit at the port of New Orleans , no assignment of another place having been made according to treaty . They were sensible that the continuance of that privation would be more injurious to our nation than any consequences which could flow from any mode of redress , but reposing just confidence in the good faith of the government whose officer had committed the wrong , friendly and reasonable representations were resorted to , and the right of deposit was restored . Previous , however , to this period , we had not been unaware of the danger to which our peace would be perpetually exposed while so important a key to the commerce of the western country remained under foreign power . Difficulties , too , were presenting themselves as to the navigation of other streams , which , arising within our territories , pass through those adjacent . Propositions had , therefore , been authorized for obtaining , on fair conditions , the sovereignty of New Orleans , and of other possessions in that quarter interesting to our quiet , to such extent as was deemed practicable and the provisional appropriation of two millions of dollars , to be applied and accounted for by the president of the United States , intended as part of the price , was considered as conveying the sanction of Congress to the acquisition proposed . The enlightened government of France saw , with just discernment , the importance to both nations of such liberal arrangements as might best and permanently promote the peace , friendship , and interests of both and the property and sovereignty of all Louisiana , which had been restored to them , have on certain conditions been transferred to the United States by instruments bearing date the 30th of April last . When these shall have received the constitutional sanction of the senate , they will without delay be communicated to the representatives also , for the exercise of their functions , as to those conditions which are within the powers vested by the constitution in Congress . While the property and sovereignty of the Mississippi and its waters secure an independent outlet for the produce of the western States , and an uncontrolled navigation through their whole course , free from collision with other powers and the dangers to our peace from that source , the fertility of the country , its climate and extent , promise in due season important aids to our treasury , an ample provision for our posterity , and a wide spread field for the blessings of freedom and equal laws . With the wisdom of Congress it will rest to take those ulterior measures which may be necessary for the immediate occupation and temporary government of the country for its incorporation into our Union for rendering the change of government a blessing to our newly adopted brethren for securing to them the rights of conscience and of property for confirming to the Indian inhabitants their occupancy and self government , establishing friendly and commercial relations with them , and for ascertaining the geography of the country acquired . Such materials for your information , relative to its affairs in general , as the short space of time has permitted me to collect , will be laid before you when the subject shall be in a state for your consideration . Another important acquisition of territory has also been made since the last session of Congress . The friendly tribe of Kaskaskia Indians with which we have never had a difference , reduced by the wars and wants of savage life to a few individuals unable to defend themselves against the neighboring tribes , has transferred its country to the United States , reserving only for its members what is sufficient to maintain them in an agricultural way . The considerations stipulated are , that we shall extend to them our patronage and protection , and give them certain annual aids in money , in implements of agriculture , and other articles of their choice . This country , among the most fertile within our limits , extending along the Mississippi from the mouth of the Illinois to and up the Ohio , though not so necessary as a barrier since the acquisition of the other bank , may yet be well worthy of being laid open to immediate settlement , as its inhabitants may descend with rapidity in support of the lower country should future circumstances expose that to foreign enterprise . As the stipulations in this treaty also involve matters within the competence of both houses only , it will be laid before Congress as soon as the senate shall have advised its ratification . With many other Indian tribes , improvements in agriculture and household manufacture are advancing , and with all our peace and friendship are established on grounds much firmer than heretofore . The measure adopted of establishing trading houses among them , and of furnishing them necessaries in exchange for their commodities , at such moderated prices as leave no gain , but cover us from loss , has the most conciliatory and useful effect upon them , and is that which will best secure their peace and good will . The small vessels authorized by Congress with a view to the Mediterranean service , have been sent into that sea , and will be able more effectually to confine the Tripoline cruisers within their harbors , and supersede the necessity of convoy to our commerce in that quarter . They will sensibly lessen the expenses of that service the ensuing year . A further knowledge of the ground in the north eastern and north western angles of the United States has evinced that the boundaries established by the treaty of Paris , between the British territories and ours in those parts , were too imperfectly described to be susceptible of execution . It has therefore been thought worthy of attention , for preserving and cherishing the harmony and useful intercourse subsisting between the two nations , to remove by timely arrangements what unfavorable incidents might otherwise render a ground of future misunderstanding . A convention has therefore been entered into , which provides for a practicable demarkation of those limits to the satisfaction of both parties . An account of the receipts and expenditures of the year ending 30th September last , with the estimates for the service of the ensuing year , will be laid before you by the secretary of the treasury so soon as the receipts of the last quarter shall be returned from the more distant States . It is already ascertained that the amount paid into the treasury for that year has been between eleven and twelve millions of dollars , and that the revenue accrued during the same term exceeds the sum counted on as sufficient for our current expenses , and to extinguish the public debt within the period heretofore proposed . The amount of debt paid for the same year is about three millions one hundred thousand dollars , exclusive of interest , and making , with the payment of the preceding year , a discharge of more than eight millions and a half of dollars of the principal of that debt , besides the accruing interest and there remain in the treasury nearly six millions of dollars . Of these , eight hundred and eighty thousand have been reserved for payment of the first instalment due under the British convention of January 8th , 1802 , and two millions are what have been before mentioned as placed by Congress under the power and accountability of the president , toward the price of New Orleans and other territories acquired , which , remaining untouched , are still applicable to that object , and go in diminution of the sum to be funded for it . Should the acquisition of Louisiana be constitutionally confirmed and carried into effect , a sum of nearly thirteen millions of dollars will then be added to our public debt , most of which is payable after fifteen years before which term the present existing debts will all be discharged by the established operation of the sinking fund . When we contemplate the ordinary annual augmentation of imposts from increasing population and wealth , the augmentation of the same revenue by its extension to the new acquisition , and the economies which may still be introduced into our public expenditures , I cannot but hope that Congress in reviewing their resources will find means to meet the intermediate interests of this additional debt without recurring to new taxes , and applying to this object only the ordinary progression of our revenue . Its extraordinary increase in times of foreign war will be the proper and sufficient fund for any measures of safety or precaution which that state of things may render necessary in our neutral position . Remittances for the instalments of our foreign debt having been found impracticable without loss , it has not been thought expedient to use the power given by a former act of Congress of continuing them by reloans , and of redeeming instead thereof equal sums of domestic debt , although no difficulty was found in obtaining that accommodation . The sum of fifty thousand dollars appropriated by Congress for providing gun boats , remains unexpended . The favorable and peaceful turn of affairs on the Mississippi rendered an immediate execution of that law unnecessary , and time was desirable in order that the institution of that branch of our force might begin on models the most approved by experience . The same issue of events dispensed with a resort to the appropriation of a million and a half of dollars contemplated for purposes which were effected by happier means . We have seen with sincere concern the flames of war lighted up again in Europe , and nations with which we have the most friendly and useful relations engaged in mutual destruction . While we regret the miseries in which we see others involved let us bow with gratitude to that kind Providence which , inspiring with wisdom and moderation our late legislative councils while placed under the urgency of the greatest wrongs , guarded us from hastily entering into the sanguinary contest , and left us only to look on and to pity its ravages . These will be heaviest on those immediately engaged . Yet the nations pursuing peace will not be exempt from all evil . In the course of this conflict , let it be our endeavor , as it is our interest and desire , to cultivate the friendship of the belligerent nations by every act of justice and of incessant kindness to receive their armed vessels with hospitality from the distresses of the sea , but to administer the means of annoyance to none to establish in our harbors such a police as may maintain law and order to restrain our citizens from embarking individually in a war in which their country takes no part to punish severely those persons , citizen or alien , who shall usurp the cover of our flag for vessels not entitled to it , infecting thereby with suspicion those of real Americans , and committing us into controversies for the redress of wrongs not our own to exact from every nation the observance , toward our vessels and citizens , of those principles and practices which all civilized people acknowledge to merit the character of a just nation , and maintain that of an independent one , preferring every consequence to insult and habitual wrong . Congress will consider whether the existing laws enable us efficaciously to maintain this course with our citizens in all places , and with others while within the limits of our jurisdiction , and will give them the new modifications necessary for these objects . Some contraventions of right have already taken place , both within our jurisdictional limits and on the high seas . The friendly disposition of the governments from whose agents they have proceeded , as well as their wisdom and regard for justice , leave us in reasonable expectation that they will be rectified and prevented in future and that no act will be countenanced by them which threatens to disturb our friendly intercourse . Separated by a wide ocean from the nations of Europe , and from the political interests which entangle them together , with productions and wants which render our commerce and friendship useful to them and theirs to us , it cannot be the interest of any to assail us , nor ours to disturb them . We should be most unwise , indeed , were we to cast away the singular blessings of the position in which nature has placed us , the opportunity she has endowed us with of pursuing , at a distance from foreign contentions , the paths of industry , peace , and happiness of cultivating general friendship , and of bringing collisions of interest to the umpirage of reason rather than of force . How desirable then must it be , in a government like ours , to see its citizens adopt individually the views , the interests , and the conduct which their country should pursue , divesting themselves of those passions and partialities which tend to lessen useful friendships , and to embarrass and embroil us in the calamitous scenes of Europe . Confident , fellow citizens , that you will duly estimate the importance of neutral dispositions toward the observance of neutral conduct , that you will be sensible how much it is our duty to look on the bloody arena spread before us with commiseration indeed , but with no other wish than to see it closed , I am persuaded you will cordially cherish these dispositions in all discussions among yourselves , and in all communications with your constituents and I anticipate with satisfaction the measures of wisdom which the great interests now committed to _you_ will give you an opportunity of providing , and _myself_ that of approving and carrying into execution with the fidelity I owe to my country .<speech_sep>To the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States When we assemble together , fellow citizens , to consider the state of our beloved country , our just attentions are first drawn to those pleasing circumstances which mark the goodness of that Being from whose favor they flow and the large measure of thankfulness we owe for His bounty . Another year has come around , and finds us still blessed with peace and friendship abroad law , order , and religion at home good affection and harmony with our Indian neighbors our burthens lightened , yet our income sufficient for the public wants , and the produce of the year great beyond example . These , fellow citizens , are the circumstances under which we meet , and we remark with special satisfaction those which under the smiles of Providence result from the skill , industry , and order of our citizens , managing their own affairs in their own way and for their own use , unembarrassed by too much regulation , unoppressed by fiscal exactions . On the restoration of peace in Europe that portion of the general carrying trade which had fallen to our share during the war was abridged by the returning competition of the belligerent powers . This was to be expected , and was just . But in addition we find in some parts of Europe monopolizing discriminations , which in the form of duties tend effectually to prohibit the carrying thither our own produce in our own vessels . From existing amities and a spirit of justice it is hope that friendly discussion will produce a fair and adequate reciprocity . But should false calculations of interest defeat our hope , it rests with the legislature to decide whether they will meet inequalities abroad with countervailing inequalities at home , or provide for the evil in any other way . It is with satisfaction I lay before you an act of the British Parliament anticipating this subject so far as to authorize a mutual abolition of the duties and countervailing duties permitted under the treaty of 1794 . It shows on their part a spirit of justice and friendly accommodation which it is our duty and our interest to cultivate with all nations . Whether this would produce a due equality in the navigation between the two countries is a subject for your consideration . Another circumstances which claims attention as directly affecting the very source of our navigation in the defect or the evasion of the law providing for the return of seamen , and particularly of those belonging to vessels sold abroad . Numbers of them , discharged in foreign ports , have dangers into which their distresses might plunge them and save them to their country , have found it necessary in some cases to return them at the public charge . The cession of the Spanish Province of Louisiana to France , which took place in the course of the late war , will if carried into effect , make a change in the aspect of our foreign relations which will doubtless have just weight in any deliberations of the legislature connected with that subject . There was reason not long since to apprehend that the warfare in which we were engaged with Tripoli might be taken up by some other of the Barbary Powers . A reenforcement , therefore , was immediately ordered to the vessels already there . Subsequent information , however has removed these apprehensions for the present . To secure our commerce in that sea with the smallest force competent , we have supposed it best to watch strictly the harbor of Tripoli . Still , however , the shallowness of their coast and the want of smaller vessels on our part has permitted some cruisers to escape unobserved , and to one of these an American vessel unfortunately fell a prey . The captain , one American seaman , and two others of color remain prisoners with them unless exchanged under an agreement formerly made with the Bashaw , to whom , on the faith of that , some of his captive subjects had been restored . The convention with the state of Georgia has been ratified by their legislature , and a repurchase from the Creeks has been consequently made of a part of the Talasscee country . In this purchase has been also comprehended a part of the lands within the fork of Oconee and Oakmulgee rivers . The particulars of the contract will be laid before Congress so soon as they shall be in a state for communication . In order to remove every ground of difference possible with our Indian neighbors , I have proceeded in the work of settling with them and marking the boundaries between us . That with Choctaw Nation is fixed in one part and will be through the whole within a short time . The country to which their title had been extinguished before the Revolution is sufficient to receive a very respectful population , which Congress will probably see the expediency of encouraging so soon as the limits shall be declared . We are to view this position as an outpost of the United States , surrounded by strong neighbors and distant from its support and how far that monopoly which prevents population should here be guarded against and actual habitation made a condition of the continuance of title will be for your consideration . A prompt settlement , too , of all existing rights and claims within this territory presents itself as a preliminary operation . In that part of the Indian Territory which includes Vicennes the lines settled with neighboring tribes fix the extinction of their title at a breadth of 24 leagues from east to west and about the same length parallel with and including the Wabash . They have also ceded a tract of four miles square , including the salt springs near the mouth of that river . In the Department of Finance it is with pleasure I inform you that the receipts of external duties for the last twelve months have exceeded those of any former year , and that the ratio of increase has been also greater than usual . This has enabled us to answer all the regular exigencies of government , to pay from the Treasury within one year upward of 8 , 000 , 000 , principal and interest , of the public debt , exclusive of upward of one million paid by the sale of bank stock , and making in the whole a reduction of nearly five millions and a half of principal , and to have now in the Treasury 4 , 500 , 000 , which are in a course of application to the further discharge of debt and current demands . Experience , too , so far , authorizes us to believe , if no extraordinary event supervenes , and the expenses which will be actually incurred shall not be greater than were contemplated by Congress at their last session , that we shall not be disappointed in the expectations then formed . But nevertheless , as the effect of peace on the amount of duties is not yet fully ascertained , it is the more necessary to practice every useful economy and to incur no expense which may be avoided without prejudice . The collection of the internal taxes having been retarded , it will be some time before the system is closed . It is not yet been thought necessary to employ the agent authorized by an act of the last session for transacting business in Europe relative to debts and loans . Nor have we used the power confided by the same act of prolonging the foreign debt by reloans , and of redeeming instead thereof an equal sum of domestic debt . Should , however , the difficulties of remittance on so large a scale render it necessary at any time , the power shall be executed and the money thus unemployed abroad shall , in conformity with that law , be faithfully applied here in equivalent extinction of domestic debt . When effects do salutary result from the plans you have already sanctioned when merely by avoiding false objects of expense we are able , without a direct tax , without internal taxes , and without borrowing to make large and effectual payments toward the discharge of public debt and the emancipation of our posterity from that mortal canker , it is an encouragement , fellow citizens , of the highest order to proceed as we have begun in substituting economy for taxation , and in pursuing what is useful for a nation placed as we are , rather than what is practiced by others under different circumstances . And whensoever we are destined to meet events which shall call forth all the energies of our countryman , we have the firmest reliance on those energies and the comfort of leaving for calls like these the extraordinary resources of loans and internal taxes . In the meantime , by payments of the principal of our debt , we are liberating annually portions of the external taxes and forming from them a growing fund still further to lessen the necessity of recurring to extraordinary resources . The usual account of receipts and expenditures for the last year , with an estimate of the expenses of the ensuing one , will be laid before you by the Secretary of Treasury . No change being deemed necessary in our military establishment , an estimate of its expenses for the ensuing year on its present footing , as also sums to be employed in fornications and other objects within that department , has been prepared by the Secretary of War , and will make a part of the general estimates which will be presented you . Considering that our regular troops are employed for local purposes , and that the militia our general reliance for great and sudden emergencies , you will doubtless think this institution worth of a review , and give those improvements of which you find susceptible . Estimates for the Naval Department , prepared by the Secretary of the Navy , for another year will in like manner be communicated with general estimates . A small force in the Mediterranean will still be necessary to restrain the Tripoline cruisers , and the uncertain tenure of peace with some other of the Barbary Powers may eventually require that force to be augmented . The necessity of procuring some smaller vessels for that service will raise the estimate , but the difference in their maintenance will soon make it a measure of economy . Presuming it will be deemed expedient to expend annually a convenient sum toward providing the naval defense which our situation may require . I can not but recommend that the first appropriations for that purpose may go to the saving what we already possess . No cares , no attentions , can preserve vessels from rapid decay which lie in water exposed to the sun . These decays require great and constant repairs and will consume , if continues , a great portion of the moneys destined to naval purposes . To avoid this waste of our resources it is proposed to add to our navy yard here a dock within which our present vessels may be laid up dry and cover from the sun . Under these circumstances experience proves that works of wood will remain scarcely at all affected by time . The great abundance of running water which this situation possess , at heights far above the level of the tide , if employed as is practiced for lock navigation , furnishes the means for raising and laying up our vessels on a dry and sheltered bed . And should the measure be found useful here , similar depositories for laying up as well as for building and repairing vessel may hereafter be undertaken at other navy yards offering the same means . The plans and estimates of the work , prepared by a person of skill and experience , will be presented to you without delay , and from this it will be seen that scarcely more than has been the cost of one vessel is necessary to save the whole , and that the annual sum to be employed toward its completion may be adapted to the views of the legislature as to naval expenditure . To cultivate peace and maintain commerce and navigation in all their lawful enterprises to foster our fisheries as nurseries of navigation and for the nurture of man , and protect the manufactures adapted to our circumstances to preserve the faith of the nation by an exact discharge of its debts and contracts , expend the public money with same care and economy we would practice with our own , and impose on our citizens no unnecessary burthens to keep in all of safety these , fellow citizens , are the landmarks by which we are to guide ourselves in all our proceedings . By continuing to make these the rule of our action we shall endear to our countrymen the true principles of their Constitution and promote an union of sentiment an of action equally auspicious to their happiness and safety . On my part , you may count on a cordial concurrence in every measure for the public good and on all the information I possess which may enable you to discharge to advantage the high functions with which you are invested by your country .<speech_sep>To the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States The depredations which had been committed on the commerce of the United States during a preceding war by persons under the authority of Spain are sufficiently known to all . These made it a duty to require from that Government indemnifications for our injured citizens . A convention was accordingly entered into between the minister of the United States at Madrid and the minister of that Government for foreign affairs , by which it was agreed that spoliations committed by Spanish subjects and carried into ports of Spain should be paid for by that nation , and that those committed by French subjects and carried into Spanish ports should remain for further discussion . Before this convention was returned to Spain with our ratification the transfer of Louisiana by France to the United States took place , an event as unexpected as disagreeable to Spain . From that moment she seemed to change her conduct and dispositions toward us . It was first manifested by her protest against the right of France to alienate Louisiana to us , which , however , was soon retracted and the right confirmed . Then high offense was manifested at the act of Congress establishing a collection district on the Mobile , although by an authentic declaration immediately made it was expressly confined to our acknowledged limits and she now refused to ratify the convention signed by her own minister under the eye of his Sovereign unless we would consent to alterations of its terms which would have affected our claims against her for the spoliations by French subjects carried into Spanish ports . To obtain justice as well as to restore friendship I thought a special mission advisable , and accordingly appointed James Monroe minister extraordinary and plenipotentiary to repair to Madrid , and in conjunction with our minister resident there to endeavor to procure a ratification of the former convention and to come to an understanding with Spain as to the boundaries of Louisiana . It appeared at once that her policy was to reserve herself for events , and in the meantime to keep our differences in an undetermined state . This will be evident from the papers now communicated to you . After nearly five months of fruitless endeavor to bring them to some definite and satisfactory result , our ministers ended the conferences without having been able to obtain indemnity for spoliations of any description or any satisfaction as to the boundaries of Louisiana , other than a declaration that we had no rights eastward of the Iberville , and that our line to the west was one which would have left us but a string of land on that bank of the river Mississippi . Our injured citizens were thus left without any prospect of retribution from the wrongdoer , and as to boundary each party was to take its own course . That which they have chosen to pursue will appear from the documents now communicated . They authorize the inference that it is their intention to advance on our possessions until they shall be repressed by an opposing force . Considering that Congress alone is constitutionally invested with the power of changing our condition from peace to war , I have thought it my duty to await their authority for using force in any degree which could be avoided . I have barely instructed the officers stationed in the neighborhood of the aggressions to protect our citizens from violence , to patrol within the borders actually delivered to us , and not to go out of them but when necessary to repel an inroad or to rescue a citizen or his property and the Spanish officers remaining at New Orleans are required to depart without further delay . It ought to be noted here that since the late change in the state of affairs in Europe Spain has ordered her cruisers and courts to respect our treaty with her . The conduct of France and the part she may take in the misunderstandings between the United States and Spain are too important to be unconsidered . She was prompt and decided in her declarations that our demands on Spain for French spoliations carried into Spanish ports were included in the settlement between the United States and France . She took at once the ground that she had acquired no right from Spain , and had meant to deliver us none eastward of the Iberville , her silence as to the western boundary leaving us to infer her opinion might be against Spain in that quarter . Whatever direction she might mean to give to these differences , it does not appear that she has contemplated their proceeding to actual rupture , or that at the date of our last advices from Paris her Government had any suspicion of the hostile attitude Spain had taken here on the contrary , we have reason to believe that she was disposed to effect a settlement on a plan analogous to what our ministers had proposed , and so comprehensive as to remove as far as possible the grounds of future collision and controversy on the eastern as well as western side of the Mississippi . The present crisis in Europe is favorable for pressing such a settlement , and not a moment should be lost in availing ourselves of it . Should it pass unimproved , our situation would become much more difficult . Formal war is not necessary it is not probable it will follow but the protection of our citizens , the spirit and honor of our country require that force should be interposed to a certain degree It will probably contribute to advance the object of peace . But the course to be pursued will require the command of means which it belongs to Congress exclusively to yield or to deny . To them I communicate every fact material for their information and the documents necessary to enable them to judge for themselves . To their wisdom , then , I look for the course I am to pursue , and will pursue with sincere zeal that which they shall approve . TJEFFERSON .<speech_sep>To the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States At a moment when the nations of Europe are in commotion and arming against each other , and when those with whom we have principle intercourse are engaged in the general contest , and when the countenance of some of them toward our peaceable country threatens that even that may not be affected by what is passing on the general theater , a meeting of the representatives of the nation in both Houses of Congress has become more than usually desirable . Coming from every section of our country , they bring with them the sentiments and the information of the whole , And will be enabled to give direction to the public affairs which the will and the wisdom of the whole will approve and support . In taking a view of the state of our country we in the first place notice the late affliction of two of our cities under the fatal fever which in latter times has occasionally visited our shores . Providence in His goodness gave it an early termination on this occasion and lessened the number of victims which have usually fallen before it . In the course of the several visitations by this disease it has appeared that it is strictly local , incident to cities and on the tide waters only , incommunicable in the country either by persons under the disease or by goods carried from diseased places that its access is with the autumn and it disappears with the early frosts . These restrictions within narrow limits of time and space give security even to our maritime cities three fourths of the year , and to the country always . Although from these facts it appears unnecessary , yet to satisfy the fears of foreign nations and cautions on their part not to be complained of in a danger whose limits are yet unknown to them I have strictly enjoined on the officers at the head of customs to certify with exact truth , for every vessel sailing for a foreign port the state of health respecting this fever which prevails at the place from which she sails . . Under every motive from character and duty to certify the truth , I have no doubt they have faithfully executed this injunction . Much real injury has , however , been sustained from a propensity to identify with this endemic and to call by the same name fevers of very different kinds , which have been placed among those deemed contagious . As we advance in our knowledge of this disease , as facts develop the source from which individuals receive it , the State authorities charged with the care of the public health , and Congress with that of the general commerce , will become able to regulate with effect their respective functions in these departments . The burthen of quarantines is felt at home as well as abroad their efficacy merits examination . Although the health laws of the States should be found to need no present revisal by Congress , yet commerce claims that their attention be ever awake to them . Since our last meeting the aspect of our foreign relations has considerably changed . Our coasts have been infested and our harbors watched by private armed vessels , some of them without commissions , some with illegal commissions , others with those legal form . But committing piratical acts beyond the authority of their commissions . They have captured in the very entrance of our harbors , as well as on the high seas , not only the vessels of our friends coming to trade with us , but our own also . They have carried them off under pretense of legal adjudication but not daring to approach a court of justice , they have plundered and sunk them by the way or in obscure places where no evidence could arise against them , maltreated the crews , and abandoned them in boats in the open sea or on desert shores without food or covering . These enormities appearing to be unreached by any control of their sovereigns , I found it necessary to equip a force to cruise within our own seas , to arrest all vessels of these descriptions found hovering on our coasts within the limits of the Gulf Stream and to bring the offenders in for trial as pirates . The same system of hovering on our coasts and harbors under color of seeking enemies has been also carried on by public armed ships to the great annoyance and oppression of our commerce . New principles , too , have been interpolated into the law of nations , founded neither in justice nor the usage or acknowledgment of nations . According to these belligerent takes to itself a commerce with its own enemy which it denies to a neutral on the ground of its aiding that enemy in the war but reason revolts at such an inconsistency , and the neutral having equal right with the belligerent to decide the question , the interests of our constituents and the duty of maintaining the authority of reason , the only umpire between just nations , impose on us the obligation of providing an effectual and determined opposition to a doctrine so injurious to the rights of peaceable nations . Indeed , the confidence we ought to have in the justice of others still countenances the hope that a sounder view of those rights will of itself induce from every belligerent a more correct observance of them . With Spain our negotiations for a settlement of differences have not had a satisfactory issue . Spoliations during a former war , for which she had formally acknowledged herself responsible , have been refused to be compensated but on conditions affecting other claims in no wise connected with them . Yet the same practices are renewed in the present war and are already of great amount . On the Mobile , our commerce passing through that river continues to be obstructed by arbitrary duties and vexatious searches . Propositions for adjusting amicably the boundaries of Louisana have not been acceded to . While , however , the right is unsettled , we have avoided changing the state of things by taking new posts or strengthening ourselves in the disputed territories , in the hope that the other power would not by contrary conduct oblige us to meet their example and endanger conflicts of authority the issue of which may not be easily controlled . But in this hope we have now reason to lessen our confidence . Inroads have been recently made into the Territories of Orleans and the Mississippi , our citizens have been seized and their property plundered in the very parts of the former which had been actually delivered up by Spain , and this by the regular officers and soldiers of that Government . I have therefore found it necessary at length to give orders to our troops on that frontier to be in readiness to protect our citizens , and to repel by arms any similar aggressions in future . Other details necessary for your full information of the state of things between this country and that shall be the subject of another communication . In reviewing these injuries from some of the belligerent powers the moderation , the firmness , and the wisdom of the Legislature will all be called into action . We ought still to hope that time and a more correct estimate of interest as well as of character will produce the justice we are bound to expect . But should any nation deceive itself by false calculations and disappointment that expectation , we must join in unprofitable contest of trying which party can do the other the most harm . Some of these injuries may perhaps admit a peaceable remedy . Where that is competent it is always the most desirable . But some of them are of a nature to be met by force only , and all of them may lead to it . I can not , therefore , but recommend such preparations as circumstances call for . The first object is to place our seaport town out of danger of insult . Measures have been already taken for furnishing them with heavy cannon for the service of such land batteries as may make apart of their defense against armed vessels approaching them . In aid of these it is desirable we should have a competent number of gunboats , and the number , to be competent , must be considerable . If immediately begun , they may be in readiness for service at the opening of the next season . Whether it will be necessary to augment our land forces will be decided buy occurrences probably in the course of your session . In the meantime you will consider whether it would not be expedient for a state of peace as well as war so to organize or class the militia as would enable us on any sudden emergency to call for the services of the younger portions unencumbered with the old and those having families . Upward of 300 , 000 able bodied men between the ages of 18 and 26 years , which the last census shews we may now count within our limits , will furnish a competent number for offense or defense in any point where they may be wanted , and will give time for raising regular forces after the necessity of them shall become certain and the reducing to the early period of life all its active service can not but be desirable to our younger citizens of the present as well as future times , inasmuch as it engages to them in more advanced age a quiet and undisturbed repose in the bosom of their families . I can not , then , but earnestly recommend to your early consideration the expediency of so modifying our militia system as , by a separation of the more active part from that which is less so , we may draw from it when necessary an efficient corps fit for real and active service , and to be called to it in regular rotation . Considerable provision has been made under former authorities from Congress of materials for the construction of ships of war of 74 guns . These materials are on hand subject to the further will of the Legislature . Turning from these unpleasant views of violence and wrong , I congratulate you on the liberation of our fellow citizens who were stranded on the coast of Tripoli and made prisoners of war . In a government bottomed on the will of all the life and liberty of every individual citizen become interesting to all . In the treaty , therefore , which has concluded our warefare with that State an article for the ransom of our citizens has been agreed to . An operation by land by a small band of our countrymen and others , engaged for the occasion in conjunction with the troops of the ex Bashaw of that county , gallantly conducted by our late consul , Eaton , and their successful enterprise on the city of Derne , contributed doubtless to the impression which produced peace , and the concluison of this prevented opportunities of which the officers and men of our squadron destined for Tripoli would have availed themselves to emulate the acts of valor exhibited by their brethren in the attack of last year . Reflecting with high satisfaction on the distinguished bravery displayed whenever occasions permitted in the late Mediterranean service , I think it would be an useful encouragement as well as a just reward to make an opening for some present promotion by enlarging our peace establishment of captains and lieutenants . With Tunis some misunderstandings have arisen not yet sufficiently explained , but friendly discussions with their ambassador recently arrived and a mutual disposition to do whatever is just and reasonable can not fail of dissipating these , so that we may consider our peace on that coast , generally , to be on as sound a footing as it has been at any preceding time . Still , it will not be expedient to withdraw immediately the whole of our force from that sea . The law providing for a naval peace establishment fixes the number of frigates which shall be kept in constant service in time of peace , and prescribes that they shall be manned by not more than two thirds of their complement of seamen and ordinary seamen . Whether a frigate may be trusted to two thirds only of her proper complement of men must depend on the nature of the service on which she is ordered that may sometimes , for her safety as well as to insure her object , require her fullest complement . In adverting to this subject Congress will perhaps consider whether the best limitation on the Executive discretion in this case would not be by the number of seamen which may be employed in the whole service rather than by the number of the vessels . Occasions oftener arise for the employment of small than of large vessels , and it would lessen risk as well as expense to be authorized to employ them of preference . The limitation suggested by the number of seamen would admit a selection of vessels best adapted to the service . Our Indian neighbors are advancing , many of them with spirit , and others beginning to engage in the pursuits of agriculture and household manufacture . They are becoming sensible that the earth yields subsistence with less labor and more certainty than the forest , and find it their interest from time e to time to dispose of parts of their surplus and waste lands for the means of improving those they occupy and of subsisting their families while they are preparing their farms . Since your last session the Northern tribes have sold to us the lands between the Connecticut Reserve and the former Indian boundary and those on the Ohio rom the same boundary to the rapids and for a considerable depth inland . The Chickasaws and Cherokees have sold us the country between and adjacent to the two districts of Tennessee , and the Creeks the residue of their lands in the fork of Ocmulgee up to the Olcofauhatche . The three former purchases are important , inasmuch as they consolidate disjoined parts of our settled country and render their intercourse secure and the second particularly so , as , with the small point on the river which we expect is by this time ceded by the Piankeshaws , it completes our possession of the whole of both banks of the Ohio from its source to near its mouth , and the navigation of that river is thereby rendered forever safe to our citizens settled and settling on its extensive waters . The purchase from the Creeks , too , has been for some time particularly interesting to the State of Georgia . The several treaties which have been mentioned will be submitted to both houses of Congress for the exercise of their respective functions . Deputations now on their way to the seat of Government from various nations of Indians inhabiting the Missouri and other parts beyond the Mississippi come charged with assurances of their satisfaction with the new relations in which they are placed with us , of their dispositions to cultivate our peace and friendship , and their desire to enter into commercial intercourse with us . A state of our progress in exploring the principle rivers of that country , and of the information respecting them hitherto obtained , will be communicated so soon as we shall receive some further relations which we have reason shortly to expect . The receipts at the Treasury during the year ending on the 30th day of September last have exceeded the sum 13 , 000 , 000 , which , with not quite five millions in the Treasury at the beginning of the year have enabled us after meeting other demands to pay nearly two millions of the debt contracted under the British treaty and convention upward of four millions of principle of the public debt and four millions of interest . These payments , with those which had been made in three years and a half preceding , have extinguished of the funded debt nearly eighteen millions of principle . Congress by their act of November 10 , 1803 , authorized us to borrow 1 , 750 , 000 toward meeting the claims of our citizens assumed by the convention with France . We have not , however , made use o this authority , because the sum of four millions and a half which remained in the Treasury on the same 30th day of September last , with receipts which we may calculate on for the ensuing year , besides paying the annual sum of 8 , 000 , 000 appropriated to the funded debt and meeting all the current demands which may be expected , will enable us to pay the whole sum of 3 , 750 , 000 assumed by the French convention and still leave us a surplus of nearly 1 , 000 , 000 at our free disposal . Should you concur in the provisions of arms and armed vessels recommended by the circumstances of the times , this surplus will furnish the means of doing so . On this first occasion of addressing Congress since , by the choice of my constituents , I have entered on a second term of administration , I embrace the opportunity to give this public assurance that I will exert my best endeavors to administer faithfully the executive department , and will zealously cooperate with you in every measure which may tend to secure the liberty , property , and personal safety of our fellow citizens , and to consolidate the republican forms and principles of our Government . In the course of your session you shall receive all the aid which I can give for the dispatch of public business , and all the information necessary for your deliberations , of which the interests of our own country and the confidence reposed in us by others will admit a communication .<speech_sep>To the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States To a people , fellow citizens , who sincerely desire the happiness and prosperity of other nations to those who justly calculate that their own well being is advanced by that of the nations with which they have intercourse , it will be a satisfaction to observe that the war which was lighted up Europe a little before our last meeting has not yet extended its flames to other nations , nor been marked by the calamities which sometimes stain the footsteps of war . The irregularities , too on the ocean , which generally harass the commerce of neutral nations , have in distant parts , disturbed ours less than on former occasions but in the American seas they have been greater from peculiar causes , and even within our harbors and jurisdiction infringements on the authority of the laws have been committed which have called for serious attention The friendly conduct of the Governments from whose officers and subjects these acts have proceeded , in other respects and in places more under their observation and control , gives us confidence that our representations on this subject will have been completely regarded . While noticing the irregularities committed on the ocean by others , those on our own part should not be omitted nor left unprovided for . Complaints have been received that persons residing within the United States have taken on themselves to arm merchant vessels and to force a commerce into certain ports and countries in defiance of the laws of those countries in defiance of the laws of those countries . That individuals should undertake to wage private war , independently of the authority of their country , can not be permitted in a well ordered society . Its tendency to produce aggression on the laws and rights of other nations and to endanger the peace of our own is so oblivious that I doubt not you will adopt measures for restraining it effectually in future . Soon after the passage of the act of the last session authorizing the establishment of a district and a port of entry on the waters of the Mobile we learnt that its object was misunderstood on the part of Spain . Candid explanations were immediately given and assurances that , reserving our claims in that quarter as a subject of discussion and arrangement with Spain , no act was mediated in the meantime inconsistent with peace and friendship existing between the two nations , and that conformably to these intentions would be the execution of the law . That Government had , however , thought proper to suspend the ratification of the convention of 1802 but the explanations which would reach them soon after , and still more the confirmation of them by the tenor of the instrument establishing the port and district , may reasonably be expected to replace them in the dispositions and views of the whole subject which originally dictated the convention . I have the satisfaction to inform you that the objections which had been urged by that Government against the validity of our title to the country of Louisana have been withdrawn , its exact limits , however , remaining still to be settled between us and to this is to be added that having prepared and delivered the stock created in execution of the convention of Paris of April 30 , 1803 . In consideration of the cession of that country , we have received from the Government of France an acknowledgment in due form , of the fulfillment of that stipulation . With the nations of Europe in general our friendship and intercourse are undisturbed , and from the Governments of the belligerent powers especially we continue to receive those friendly manifestations which are justly due to an honest neutrality and to such good offices consistent with that as we have opportunities of rendering . The activity and success of the small force employed in the Mediterranean in the early part of the present year , the reenforcements sent into that sea , and the energy of the officers having command in the several vessels will , I trust , by the sufferings of war , reduce the barbarians of Tripoli to the desire of peace on proper terms . Great injury , however , ensues to ourselves , as well as to others interested , from the distance to which prizes must be brought for adjudication and from the impracticability of bringing hither such as are not seaworthy . The Bey of Tunis having made requisitions unauthorized by our treaty , their rejection has produced from him some expressions of discontent . But to those who expect us to calculate whether a compliance with unjust demands will not cost us less than a war we must leave as a question of calculation for them also whether to retire from unjust demands will not cost them less than a war . We can do to each other very sensible injuries by war , but mutual advantages of peace make that the best interest of both . Peace and intercourse with other powers on the same coast continue on the footing on which they are established by treaty . In pursuance of the act providing for the temporary government of Louisana , the necessary officers for the Territory of Orleans were appointed in due time to commence the exercise of their functions on the 1st . day of October . The distance , however , of some of them and indispensable previous arrangements may have retarded its commencement in some of its parts . The form of government thus provided having been considered but as temporary , and open to such future improvements as further information of the circumstances of our brethren there might suggest , it will of course be subject to your consideration . In the District of Louisana it has been thought best to adopt the division into subordinate districts which had been established under its former government . These being five in number , a commanding officer has been appointed to each , according to the provisions of the law , and so soon as they can be at their stations that district will also be in its due state of organization . In the meantime their places are supplied by the officers commanding there . And the functions of the governor and judges of Indiana having commenced , the government , we presume is preceding in its new form . The lead mines in that district offer so rich a supply of that metal as to merit attention . The report now communicated will inform you of their state and of the necessity of immediate inquiry into their occupation and titles . With the Indian tribes established within our newly acquired limits , I have deemed it necessary to open conferences for the purpose of establishing a good understanding and neighborly relations between us . So far as we have yet learned , we have reason to believe that their dispositions on their part , we have in our own hands means which can not fail us for preserving their peace and friendship . By pursuing an uniform course of justice toward them , by aiding them in all the improvements which may better their condition , and especially by establishing a commerce on terms which shall be advantageous to them and only not losing to us , and so regulated as that no incendiaries of our own or any other nation may be permitted to disturb the natural effects of our just and friendly offices , we may render ourselves so necessary to their comfort and prosperity that the protection of our citizens from their disorderly members will become their interest and their voluntary care . Instead , therefore , of an augmentation of military force proportioned to our extension of frontier , I propose a moderate enlargement of the capital employed in that commerce as a more effectual , economical , and humane instrument for preserving peace and good neighborhood with them . On this side of the Mississippi an important relinquishment of native title has been received from the Delawares . That tribe , desiring to extinguish in their people the spirit of hunting and to convert superfluous lands into the means of improving what they retain , has ceded to us all the country between Wabash and Ohio south of and including the road from the rapids toward Vincennes , for which they are to receive annuities in animals and implements for agriculture and in other necessaries . This acquisition is important , not only for its extent and fertility , but as fronting 300 miles on the Ohio , and near half that on the Wabash . The produce of the settled country descending those rivers will no longer pass in review of the Indian frontier but in a small portion , and , with the cession heretofore made by the Kaskaskias , nearly consolidates our possessions north of the Ohio , in a very respectful breadth from Lake Erie to the Mississippi . The Piankeshaws having some claim to the country ceded by the Delawares , it has been thought best to keep quiet that by fair purchase also . So soon as the treaties on this subject shall have received their constitutional sanctions they shall be laid before both Houses . The act of Congress of February 28 , 1803 , for building and employing a number of gunboats , is now in a course of execution to the extent there provided for . The obstacle to naval enterprise which vessels of this construction offer for our seaport towns , their utility toward supporting within our waters the authority of the laws , the promptness with which they will be manned by the seamen and militia of the place in the moment they are wanting , the facility of their assembling from different parts of the coast to any point where they are required in greater force than ordinary , the economy of their maintenance and preservation from decay when not in actual service , and the competence of our finances to this defensive provision without any new burthen are considerations which will have due weight with Congress in deciding on the expediency of adding to their number from year to year , as experience shall test their utility , until all our important harbors , by these and auxiliary means , shall be secured against insult and opposition to the laws . No circumstances has arisen since your last session which calls for any augmentation of our regular military force . Should any improvement occur in militia system , that will be always seasonable . Accounts of the receipts and expenditures of the last year , with estimates for the ensuing one , will as usual be laid before you . The state of our finances continues to fulfill our expectations . Eleven millions and a half of dollars , received in the course of the year ending the 30th of September last , have enabled us , us , after meeting all the ordinary expenses of the year , to pay upward of 3 , 600 , 000 of the public debt , exclusive of interest . This payment , with those of the two preceding years , has extinguished upward of twelve millions of the principle and a greater sum of interest within that period , and by a proportionate diminution of interest renders already sensible the effect of the growing sum yearly applicable to the discharge of the principle . It is also ascertained that the revenue accrued during the last year exceeds that of the preceding , and the probable receipts of the ensuing year may safely be relied on as sufficient , with the sum already in the Treasury , to meet all the current demands of the year , to discharge upwards of three millions and a half of the engagements incurred under the British and French conventions , and to advance in the further redemption of the funded debt as rapidly as had been contemplated . These , fellow citizens , are the principle matters which I have thought it necessary at this time to communicate for your consideration and attention . Some others will be laid before you in the course of the session but in the discharge of the great duties confided to you by our country you will take a broader view of the field of legislation . Whether the great interests of agriculture , manufactures , commerce , or navigation can within the pale of your constitutional powers be aided in any of their relations whether laws are provided in all cases where they are wanting whether those provided are exactly what they should be whether any abuses take place in their administration , or in that of the public revenues whether the organization of the public agents or of the public force is perfect in all its parts in fine , whether anything can be done to advance the general good , are questions within the limits of your functions which will necessarily occupy your attention . In these and all other matters which you in your wisdom may propose for the good of our country you may count with assurance on my hearty cooperation and faithful execution .<speech_sep>MY CHILDRETHE WOLF AND PEOPLE OF THE MANDAN NATIOI take you by the hand of friendship hearty welcome to the seat of the government of the United States . The journey which you have taken to visit your fathers on this side of our island is a long one , and your having undertaken it is a proof that you desired to become acquainted with us . I thank the Great Spirit that he has protected you through the journey and brought you safely to the residence of your friends , and I hope He will have you constantly in his safe keeping , and restore you in good health to your nations and families . My friends and children , we are descended from the old nations which live beyond the great water , but we and our forefathers have been so long here that we seem like you to have grown out of this land . We consider ourselves no longer of the old nations beyond the great water , but as united in one family with our red brethren here . The French , the English , the Spaniards , have now agreed with us to retire from all the country which you and we hold between Canada and Mexico , and never more to return to it . And remember the words I now speak to you , my children , they are never to return again . We are now your fathers and you shall not lose by the change . As soon as Spain had agreed to withdraw from all the waters of the Missouri and Mississippi , I felt the desire of becoming acquainted with all my red children beyond the Mississippi , and of uniting them with us as we have those on this side of that river , in the bonds of peace and friendship . I wished to learn what we could do to benefit them by furnishing them the necessaries they want in exchange for their furs and peltries . I therefore sent our beloved man , Captain Lewis , one of my own family , to go up the Missouri river to get acquainted with all the Indian nations in its neighborhood , to take them by the hand , deliver my talks to them , and to inform us in what way we could be useful to them . Your nation received him kindly , you have taken him by the hand and been friendly to him . My children , I thank you for the services you rendered him , and for your attention to his words . He will now tell us where we should establish trading houses to be convenient to you all , and what we must send to them . My friends and children , I have now an important advice to give you . I have already told you that you and all the red men are my children , and I wish you to live in peace and friendship with one another as brethren of the same family ought to do . How much better is it for neighbors to help than to hurt one another how much happier must it make them . If you will cease to make war on one another , if you will live in friendship with all mankind , you can employ all your time in providing food and clothing for yourselves and your families . Your men will not be destroyed in war , and your women and children will lie down to sleep in their cabins without fear of being surprised by their enemies and killed or carried away . Your numbers will be increased instead of diminishing , and you will live in plenty and in quiet . My children , I have given this advice to all your red brethren on this side of the Mississippi they are following it , they are increasing in their numbers , are learning to clothe and provide for their families as we do . Remember then my advice , my children , carry it home to your people , and tell them that from the day that they have become all of the same family , from the day that we became father to them all , we wish , as a true father should do , that we may all live together as one household , and that before they strike one another , they should go to their father and let him endeavor to make up the quarrel . My children , you are come from the other side of our great island , from where the sun sets , to see your new friends at the sun rising . You have now arrived where the waters are constantly rising and falling every day , but you are still distant from the sea . I very much desire that you should not stop here , but go and see your brethren as far as the edge of the great water . I am persuaded you have so far seen that every man by the way has received you as his brothers , and has been ready to do you all the kindness in his power . You will see the same thing quite to the sea shore and I wish you , therefore , to go and visit our great cities in that quarter , and see how many friends and brothers you have here . You will then have travelled a long line from west to east , and if you had time to go from north to south , from Canada to Florida , you would find it as long in that direction , and all the people as sincerely your friends . I wish you , my children , to see all you can , and to tell your people all you see because I am sure the more they know of us , the more they will be our hearty friends . I invite you , therefore , to pay a visit to Baltimore , Philadelphia , New York , and the cities still beyond that , if you are willing to go further . We will provide carriages to convey you and a person to go with you to see that you want for nothing . By the time you come back the snows will be melted on the mountains , the ice in the rivers broken up , and you will be wishing to set out on your return home . My children , I have long desired to see you I have now opened my heart to you , let my words sink into your hearts and never be forgotten . If ever lying people or bad spirits should raise up clouds between us , call to mind what I have said , and what you have seen yourselves . Be sure there are some lying spirits between us let us come together as friends and explain to each other what is misrepresented or misunderstood , the clouds will fly away like morning fog , and the sun of friendship appear and shine forever bright and clear between us . My children , it may happen that while you are here occasion may arise to talk about many things which I do not now particularly mention . The Secretary at War will always be ready to talk with you , and you are to consider whatever he says as said by myself . He will also take care of you and see that you are furnished with all comforts here .<speech_sep>Whereas information has been received that sundry persons , citizens of the United States or residents within the same , are conspiring and confederating together to begin and set on foot , provide , and prepare the means for a military expedition or enterprise against the dominions of Spain that for this purpose they are fitting out and arming vessels in the western waters of the United States , collecting provisions , arms , military stores , and means are deceiving and seducing honest and well meaning citizens , under various pretenses , to engage in their criminal enterprises are organizing , officering , and arming themselves for the same , contrary to the laws in such cases made and provided I have therefore thought proper to issue this my proclamation , warning and enjoining all faithful citizens who have been led without due knowledge or consideration to participate in the said unlawful enterprises to withdraw from the same without delay , and commanding all persons whatsoever engaged or concerned in the same to cease all further proceedings therein , as they will answer the contrary at their peril and incur prosecution with all the rigors of the law . And I hereby enjoin and require all officers , civil and military , of the United States , or of any of the States or Territories , and especially all governors and other executive authorities , all judges , justices , and other officers of the peace , all military officers of the Army or Navy of the United States , or officers of the militia , to be vigilant , each within his respective department and according to his functions , in searching out and bringing to condign punishment all persons engaged or concerned in such enterprise , in seizing and detaining , subject to the disposition of the law , all vessels , arms , military stores , or other means provided or providing for the same , and , in general , in preventing the carrying on such expedition or enterprise by all lawful means within their power and I require all good and faithful citizens and others within the United States to be aiding and assisting herein , and especially in the discovery , apprehension , and bringing to justice of all such offenders , in preventing the execution of their unlawful designs , and in giving information against them to the proper authorities . In testimony whereof I have caused the seal of the United States to be affixed to these presents , and have signed the same with my hand . Given at the city of Washington on the 27th day of November , 1806 , and in the year of the Sovereignty of the United States the thirty first , TJEFFERSOBy the President JAMES MADISON ,<speech_sep>