My countrymen , though not in any partisan sense I must speak of the services of the men and women who rallied to the colors of the Republic in the World War . America realizes and appreciates the services rendered , the sacrifices made , and the suffering endured . There shall be no distinction between those who knew the perils and glories of the battlefront or the dangers of the sea , and those who were compelled to serve behind the lines , or those who constituted the great reserve of a grand army which awaited the call in camps at home . All were brave . All were self sacrificing . All were sharers of those ideals which sent our boys thrice armed to war . Worthy sons and daughters , these . Fit successors to those who christened our banners in the immortal beginning . Worthy sons of those who saved the Union and nationality when civil war wiped out the ambiguity from the Constitution . Ready sons of those who drew the sword for humanity s sake the first time in the world in 1898 . The four million defenders on land and sea were worthy of the best traditions of a people never warlike in peace and never pacifist in war . They commanded our pride . They have our gratitude , which must have genuine expression . It is not only a duty it is a privilege to see that the sacrifices made shall be requited , and that those still suffering from casualties and disabilities shall be abundantly aided and restored to the highest capabilities of citizenship and its enjoyments . Much has been said of late about world ideals . But I prefer to think of the ideal for America . I like to think there is something more than the patriotism and practical wisdom of the Founding Fathers . It is good to believe that maybe destiny held this New World republic to be the supreme example of representative democracy and ordered liberty by which humanity is inspired to higher achievement . It is idle to think we have attained perfection , but there is the satisfying knowledge that we hold orderly processes for making our government reflect the heart and mind of the Republic . Ours is not only a fortunate people , but a very commonsensical people , with vision high , but their feet on the earth , with belief in themselves and faith in God . Whether enemies threaten from without or menaces arise from within , there is some indefinable voice saying Have confidence in the Republic . America will go on . Here is the temple of liberty no storm may shake . Here are the altars of freedom no passions shall destroy . It was American in conception , American in its building . It shall be American in the fulfillment . Sectional once , we are all American now . And we mean to be all Americans to all the world . I would not be my natural self if I did not utter my consciousness of my limited ability to meet your full expectations or to realize the aspirations within my own breast . But I will gladly give all that is in me , all of heart , soul , and mind and the fighting love of country , to service in our common cause . I can only pray to omnipotent God that I may be as worthy in service as I know myself to be faithful in thought and purpose . One cannot give more .<speech_sep>My countrymen , the first flaming torch of Americanism was lighted in framing the Federal Constitution in 1787 . The pilgrims signed their simple and majestic covenant a full century and a half before , and set aflame their beacon of liberty on the coast of Massachusetts . Other pioneers of New World s freedom were rearing their new standards of liberty from Jamestown to Plymouth for five generations before Lexington and Concord heralded the new era . It is all American in the destined result , yet all of it lacked the soul of nationality . In simple truth , there was no thought of nationality in the revolution for American independence . The colonists were resisting a wrong , and freedom was their solace . Once it was achieved , nationality was the only agency suited to its preservation . Americanism really began when robed in nationality . The American Republic began the blazed trail of representative popular government . Representative democracy was proclaimed the safe agency of highest human freedom . America headed the forward procession of civil , human , and religious liberty , which ultimately will affect the liberation of all mankind . The Federal Constitution is the very base of all Americanism , the Ark of the Covenant of American liberty , the very temple of equal rights . The Constitution does abide and ever will , so long as the Republic survives . Let us hesitate before we surrender the nationality which is the very soul of highest Americanism . This republic has never failed humanity , or endangered civilization . We have been tardy sometimes like when we were proclaiming democracy and neutrality , and yet ignored our national rights but the ultimate and helpful part we played in the Great War will be the pride of Americans so long as the world recites the story . We do not mean to hold aloof , we choose no isolation , we shun no duty . I like to rejoice in an American conscience and in a big conception of our obligation to liberty , justice , and civilization aye , and more . I like to think of Columbia s helping hand to new republics which are seeking the blessings portrayed in our example . But I have a confidence in our America that requires no council of foreign powers to point the way of American duty . We wish to counsel , cooperate , and contribute , but we arrogate to ourselves the keeping of the American conscience , and every concept of our moral obligation . It is time to idealize , but it is very practical to make sure our own house is in perfect order before we attempt the miracle of Old World stabilization . Call it selfishness of nationality if you will , I think it an inspiration to patriotic devotion to safeguard America first , to stabilize America first , to prosper America first , to think of America first , to exalt America first , to live for and revere America first . Let the internationalist dream and the Bolshevist destroy . God pity him for whom no minstrel raptures swell . In the spirit of the Republic we proclaim Americanism and acclaim America .<speech_sep>My countrymen , there is not anything the matter with the world s civilization except that humanity is viewing it through a vision impaired in a cataclysmal war . Poise has been disturbed , and nerves have been wracked , and fever has rendered men irrational . Sometimes there have been draughts upon the dangerous cup of barbarity . Men have wandered far from safe paths , but the human procession still marches in the right direction . Here in the United States we feel the reflex , rather than the hurting wound itself , but we still think straight and we mean to act straight we mean to hold firmly to all that was ours when war involved us and seek the higher attainments which are the only compensations that so supreme a tragedy may give mankind . America s present need is not heroics , but healing not nostrums , but normalcy not revolution , but restoration not agitation , but adjustment not surgery , but serenity not the dramatic , but the dispassionate not experiment , but equipoise not submergence in internationality but sustainment in triumphant nationality . It is one thing to battle successfully against the world s domination by a military autocracy because the infinite God never intended such a program but it is quite another thing to revise human nature and suspend the fundamental laws of life and all of life s requirements . The world calls for peace . America demands peace , formal as well as actual , and means to have it so we may set our own house in order . We challenged the proposal that an armed autocrat should dominate the world , and we choose for ourselves to cling to the representative democracy which made us what we are . This republic has its ample task . If we put an end to false economics which lure humanity to utter chaos , ours will be the commanding example of world leadership today . If we can prove a representative popular government under which the citizenship seeks what it may do for the government and country , rather than what the country may do for individuals , we shall do more to make democracy safe for the world than all armed conflict ever recorded . The world needs to be reminded that all human ills are not curable by legislation , and that quantity of statutory enactments and excess of government offer no substitute for quality of citizenship . The problems of maintained civilization are not to be solved by a transfer of responsibility from citizenship to government and no eminent page in history was ever drafted to the standards of mediocrity . Nor , no government worthy of the name which is directed by influence on the one hand or moved by intimidation on the other . My best judgement of America s need is to steady down , to get squarely on our feet , to make sure of the right path . Let us get out of the fevered delirium of war with the hallucination that all the money in the world is to be made in the madness of war and the wildness of its aftermath . Let us stop to consider that tranquility at home is more precious than peace abroad and that both our good fortune and our eminence are dependent on the normal forward stride of all the American people . We want to go on , secure and unafraid , holding fast to the American inheritance , and confident of the supreme American fulfillment .<speech_sep>I greet you in a spirit of rejoicing . Not a rejoicing in the narrow partisan or personal sense , not in the gratifying prospect of party triumph , but I rejoice that America is still free and independent and in a position of self reliance , opposed to the right of self determination . Let us take stock for a moment of America in the world , aye , and of America at home . The end of the war found our unselfishness emphasized to all mankind . The garlands of world leadership were bestowed from every direction . We had only to follow the path of America , rejoicing in the inheritance which led to our eminence , to rivet the gaze of all peoples upon our standards of national righteousness and our conception of international justice . Moreover , the world was ready to give us its confidence . It was the beckoning opportunity of the century , not for the glorification of this New World republic , but for America to hold every outpost of advancing civilization and invite all nations to join the further advance to heights dreamed of , but never before approached . But force of example was slung aside for force of armed alliance . We neglected our restorations at home , and the sacrifice of millions of lives left us and the world groping in anxiety , instead of revealing us in the sunlight of a new day with lines formed , ready for the onward march of peace and all its triumphs . Mindful of our splendid examples , and renewing every obligation of association in war , I want America to be the rock of security at home , resolute in righteousness and supremacy of the law . Our moral leadership in the world was lost when ambition sought to superimpose a reactionary theory of discredited autocracy upon the progressive principle of living , glowing democracy . My deep aspiration , my countrymen , if clothed with power , will be to regain that lost leadership , not for myself , not even for my party , though honoring and trusting it as I do , but for the country that I love from the bottom of my heart , with every fiber of my being , above all else in the world .<speech_sep>My countrymen , we believe the unspeakable sorrows , the immeasurable sacrifices , the awakened convictions , and the aspiring conscience of humankind must commit the nations of the earth to a new and better relationship . It need not be discussed now what motives plunged the world into war . It need not be inquired whether we asked the sons of this republic to defend our national rights , as I believe we did , or to purge the Old World of the accumulated ills of rivalry and greed . The sacrifices will be in vain if we cannot acclaim a new order with added security to civilization and peace maintained . One may readily sense the conscience of our America . I am sure I understand the purpose of the dominant group of the Senate . We were not seeking to defeat a world aspiration . We were resolved to safeguard America . We were resolved then even as we are today , and will be tomorrow , to preserve this free and independent republic . Let those now responsible or seeking responsibility propose the surrender whether with interpretations , apologies , or reluctant reservations from which our rights are to be omitted . We welcome the referendum to the American people on the preservation of America , and the Republican party pledges its defense of the preserved inheritance of national freedom . In the call of the conscience of America is peace . Peace that closes the gaping wound of world war and silences the impassioned voices of international envy and distrust . Heeding this call , and knowing as I do the disposition of Congress , I promise you formal and effective peace so quickly as the Republican Congress can pass its declaration for a Republican executive to sign . Then we may turn to our readjustment at home and proceed deliberately and reflectively to that hoped for world relationship which shall satisfy both conscience and aspirations , and still hold us free from menacing involvement . I can hear in the call of conscience an insistent voice for the largely reduced armaments throughout the world , with attending reduction of burdens upon peace loving humanity . We wish to give of American influence and example . We must give of American leadership to that invaluable accomplishment . I can speak unreservedly of the American aspirations and the Republican committal for an association of nations cooperating in sublime accord to attain and preserve peace through justice rather than force , determined to add to security through international law , so clarified that no misconstruction can be possible without affronting world honor . It is better to be the free and disinterested agents of international justice and advancing civilization with the covenant of conscience , than to be shackled by a written compact which surrenders our freedom of action and gives the military alliance the right to proclaim America s duty to the world . No surrender of rights to a world council or its military alliance , no assumed mandatory , however appealing , ever shall summon the sons of this republic to war . Their supreme sacrifice shall be only asked for America and its call of honor . There is sanctity in that right which we will not surrender to any other power on earth .<speech_sep>My Countrymen When one surveys the world about him after the great storm , noting the marks of destruction and yet rejoicing in the ruggedness of the things which withstood it , if he is an American he breathes the clarified atmosphere with a strange mingling of regret and new hope . We have seen a world passion spend its fury , but we contemplate our Republic unshaken , and hold our civilization secure . Liberty liberty within the law and civilization are inseparable , and though both were threatened we find them now secure and there comes to Americans the profound assurance that our representative government is the highest expression and surest guaranty of both . Standing in this presence , mindful of the solemnity of this occasion , feeling the emotions which no one may know until he senses the great weight of responsibility for himself , I must utter my belief in the divine inspiration of the founding fathers . Surely there must have been God s intent in the making of this new world Republic . Ours is an organic law which had but one ambiguity , and we saw that effaced in a baptism of sacrifice and blood , with union maintained , the Nation supreme , and its concord inspiring . We have seen the world rivet its hopeful gaze on the great truths on which the founders wrought . We have seen civil , human , and religious liberty verified and glorified . In the beginning the Old World scoffed at our experiment today our foundations of political and social belief stand unshaken , a precious inheritance to ourselves , an inspiring example of freedom and civilization to all mankind . Let us express renewed and strengthened devotion , in grateful reverence for the immortal beginning , and utter our confidence in the supreme fulfillment . The recorded progress of our Republic , materially and spiritually , in itself proves the wisdom of the inherited policy of noninvolvement in Old World affairs . Confident of our ability to work out our own destiny , and jealously guarding our right to do so , we seek no part in directing the destinies of the Old World . We do not mean to be entangled . We will accept no responsibility except as our own conscience and judgment , in each instance , may determine . Our eyes never will be blind to a developing menace , our ears never deaf to the call of civilization . We recognize the new order in the world , with the closer contacts which progress has wrought . We sense the call of the human heart for fellowship , fraternity , and cooperation . We crave friendship and harbor no hate . But America , our America , the America builded on the foundation laid by the inspired fathers , can be a party to no permanent military alliance . It can enter into no political commitments , nor assume any economic obligations which will subject our decisions to any other than our own authority . I am sure our own people will not misunderstand , nor will the world misconstrue . We have no thought to impede the paths to closer relationship . We wish to promote understanding . We want to do our part in making offensive warfare so hateful that Governments and peoples who resort to it must prove the righteousness of their cause or stand as outlaws before the bar of civilization . We are ready to associate ourselves with the nations of the world , great and small , for conference , for counsel to seek the expressed views of world opinion to recommend a way to approximate disarmament and relieve the crushing burdens of military and naval establishments . We elect to participate in suggesting plans for mediation , conciliation , and arbitration , and would gladly join in that expressed conscience of progress , which seeks to clarify and write the laws of international relationship , and establish a world court for the disposition of such justiciable questions as nations are agreed to submit thereto . In expressing aspirations , in seeking practical plans , in translating humanity s new concept of righteousness and justice and its hatred of war into recommended action we are ready most heartily to unite , but every commitment must be made in the exercise of our national sovereignty . Since freedom impelled , and independence inspired , and nationality exalted , a world supergovernment is contrary to everything we cherish and can have no sanction by our Republic . This is not selfishness , it is sanctity . It is not aloofness , it is security . It is not suspicion of others , it is patriotic adherence to the things which made us what we are . Today , better than ever before , we know the aspirations of humankind , and share them . We have come to a new realization of our place in the world and a new appraisal of our Nation by the world . The unselfishness of these United States is a thing proven our devotion to peace for ourselves and for the world is well established our concern for preserved civilization has had its impassioned and heroic expression . There was no American failure to resist the attempted reversion of civilization there will be no failure today or tomorrow . The success of our popular government rests wholly upon the correct interpretation of the deliberate , intelligent , dependable popular will of America . In a deliberate questioning of a suggested change of national policy , where internationality was to supersede nationality , we turned to a referendum , to the American people . There was ample discussion , and there is a public mandate in manifest understanding . America is ready to encourage , eager to initiate , anxious to participate in any seemly program likely to lessen the probability of war , and promote that brotherhood of mankind which must be God s highest conception of human relationship . Because we cherish ideals of justice and peace , because we appraise international comity and helpful relationship no less highly than any people of the world , we aspire to a high place in the moral leadership of civilization , and we hold a maintained America , the proven Republic , the unshaken temple of representative democracy , to be not only an inspiration and example , but the highest agency of strengthening good will and promoting accord on both continents . Mankind needs a world wide benediction of understanding . It is needed among individuals , among peoples , among governments , and it will inaugurate an era of good feeling to make the birth of a new order . In such understanding men will strive confidently for the promotion of their better relationships and nations will promote the comities so essential to peace . We must understand that ties of trade bind nations in closest intimacy , and none may receive except as he gives . We have not strengthened ours in accordance with our resources or our genius , notably on our own continent , where a galaxy of Republics reflects the glory of new world democracy , but in the new order of finance and trade we mean to promote enlarged activities and seek expanded confidence . Perhaps we can make no more helpful contribution by example than prove a Republic s capacity to emerge from the wreckage of war . While the world s embittered travail did not leave us devastated lands nor desolated cities , left no gaping wounds , no breast with hate , it did involve us in the delirium of expenditure , in expanded currency and credits , in unbalanced industry , in unspeakable waste , and disturbed relationships . While it uncovered our portion of hateful selfishness at home , it also revealed the heart of America as sound and fearless , and beating in confidence unfailing . Amid it all we have riveted the gaze of all civilization to the unselfishness and the righteousness of representative democracy , where our freedom never has made offensive warfare , never has sought territorial aggrandizement through force , never has turned to the arbitrament of arms until reason has been exhausted . When the Governments of the earth shall have established a freedom like our own and shall have sanctioned the pursuit of peace as we have practiced it , I believe the last sorrow and the final sacrifice of international warfare will have been written . Let me speak to the maimed and wounded soldiers who are present today , and through them convey to their comrades the gratitude of the Republic for their sacrifices in its defense . A generous country will never forget the services you rendered , and you may hope for a policy under Government that will relieve any maimed successors from taking your places on another such occasion as this . Our supreme task is the resumption of our onward , normal way . Reconstruction , readjustment , restoration all these must follow . I would like to hasten them . If it will lighten the spirit and add to the resolution with which we take up the task , let me repeat for our Nation , we shall give no people just cause to make war upon us we hold no national prejudices we entertain no spirit of revenge we do not hate we do not covet we dream of no conquest , nor boast of armed prowess . If , despite this attitude , war is again forced upon us , I earnestly hope a way may be found which will unify our individual and collective strength and consecrate all America , materially and spiritually , body and soul , to national defense . I can vision the ideal republic , where every man and woman is called under the flag for assignment to duty for whatever service , military or civic , the individual is best fitted where we may call to universal service every plant , agency , or facility , all in the sublime sacrifice for country , and not one penny of war profit shall inure to the benefit of private individual , corporation , or combination , but all above the normal shall flow into the defense chest of the Nation . There is something inherently wrong , something out of accord with the ideals of representative democracy , when one portion of our citizenship turns its activities to private gain amid defensive war while another is fighting , sacrificing , or dying for national preservation . Out of such universal service will come a new unity of spirit and purpose , a new confidence and consecration , which would make our defense impregnable , our triumph assured . Then we should have little or no disorganization of our economic , industrial , and commercial systems at home , no staggering war debts , no swollen fortunes to flout the sacrifices of our soldiers , no excuse for sedition , no pitiable slackerism , no outrage of treason . Envy and jealousy would have no soil for their menacing development , and revolution would be without the passion which engenders it . A regret for the mistakes of yesterday must not , however , blind us to the tasks of today . War never left such an aftermath . There has been staggering loss of life and measureless wastage of materials . Nations are still groping for return to stable ways . Discouraging indebtedness confronts us like all the war torn nations , and these obligations must be provided for . No civilization can survive repudiation . We can reduce the abnormal expenditures , and we will . We can strike at war taxation , and we must . We must face the grim necessity , with full knowledge that the task is to be solved , and we must proceed with a full realization that no statute enacted by man can repeal the inexorable laws of nature . Our most dangerous tendency is to expect too much of government , and at the same time do for it too little . We contemplate the immediate task of putting our public household in order . We need a rigid and yet sane economy , combined with fiscal justice , and it must be attended by individual prudence and thrift , which are so essential to this trying hour and reassuring for the future . The business world reflects the disturbance of war s reaction . Herein flows the lifeblood of material existence . The economic mechanism is intricate and its parts interdependent , and has suffered the shocks and jars incident to abnormal demands , credit inflations , and price upheavals . The normal balances have been impaired , the channels of distribution have been clogged , the relations of labor and management have been strained . We must seek the readjustment with care and courage . Our people must give and take . Prices must reflect the receding fever of war activities . Perhaps we never shall know the old levels of wages again , because war invariably readjusts compensations , and the necessaries of life will show their inseparable relationship , but we must strive for normalcy to reach stability . All the penalties will not be light , nor evenly distributed . There is no way of making them so . There is no instant step from disorder to order . We must face a condition of grim reality , charge off our losses and start afresh . It is the oldest lesson of civilization . I would like government to do all it can to mitigate then , in understanding , in mutuality of interest , in concern for the common good , our tasks will be solved . No altered system will work a miracle . Any wild experiment will only add to the confusion . Our best assurance lies in efficient administration of our proven system . The forward course of the business cycle is unmistakable . Peoples are turning from destruction to production . Industry has sensed the changed order and our own people are turning to resume their normal , onward way . The call is for productive America to go on . I know that Congress and the Administration will favor every wise Government policy to aid the resumption and encourage continued progress . I speak for administrative efficiency , for lightened tax burdens , for sound commercial practices , for adequate credit facilities , for sympathetic concern for all agricultural problems , for the omission of unnecessary interference of Government with business , for an end to Government s experiment in business , and for more efficient business in Government administration . With all of this must attend a mindfulness of the human side of all activities , so that social , industrial , and economic justice will be squared with the purposes of a righteous people . With the nation wide induction of womanhood into our political life , we may count upon her intuitions , her refinements , her intelligence , and her influence to exalt the social order . We count upon her exercise of the full privileges and the performance of the duties of citizenship to speed the attainment of the highest state . I wish for an America no less alert in guarding against dangers from within than it is watchful against enemies from without . Our fundamental law recognizes no class , no group , no section there must be none in legislation or administration . The supreme inspiration is the common weal . Humanity hungers for international peace , and we crave it with all mankind . My most reverent prayer for America is for industrial peace , with its rewards , widely and generally distributed , amid the inspirations of equal opportunity . No one justly may deny the equality of opportunity which made us what we are . We have mistaken unpreparedness to embrace it to be a challenge of the reality , and due concern for making all citizens fit for participation will give added strength of citizenship and magnify our achievement . If revolution insists upon overturning established order , let other peoples make the tragic experiment . There is no place for it in America . When World War threatened civilization we pledged our resources and our lives to its preservation , and when revolution threatens we unfurl the flag of law and order and renew our consecration . Ours is a constitutional freedom where the popular will is the law supreme and minorities are sacredly protected . Our revisions , reformations , and evolutions reflect a deliberate judgment and an orderly progress , and we mean to cure our ills , but never destroy or permit destruction by force . I had rather submit our industrial controversies to the conference table in advance than to a settlement table after conflict and suffering . The earth is thirsting for the cup of good will , understanding is its fountain source . I would like to acclaim an era of good feeling amid dependable prosperity and all the blessings which attend . It has been proved again and again that we cannot , while throwing our markets open to the world , maintain American standards of living and opportunity , and hold our industrial eminence in such unequal competition . There is a luring fallacy in the theory of banished barriers of trade , but preserved American standards require our higher production costs to be reflected in our tariffs on imports . Today , as never before , when peoples are seeking trade restoration and expansion , we must adjust our tariffs to the new order . We seek participation in the world s exchanges , because therein lies our way to widened influence and the triumphs of peace . We know full well we cannot sell where we do not buy , and we cannot sell successfully where we do not carry . Opportunity is calling not alone for the restoration , but for a new era in production , transportation and trade . We shall answer it best by meeting the demand of a surpassing home market , by promoting self reliance in production , and by bidding enterprise , genius , and efficiency to carry our cargoes in American bottoms to the marts of the world . We would not have an America living within and for herself alone , but we would have her self reliant , independent , and ever nobler , stronger , and richer . Believing in our higher standards , reared through constitutional liberty and maintained opportunity , we invite the world to the same heights . But pride in things wrought is no reflex of a completed task . Common welfare is the goal of our national endeavor . Wealth is not inimical to welfare it ought to be its friendliest agency . There never can be equality of rewards or possessions so long as the human plan contains varied talents and differing degrees of industry and thrift , but ours ought to be a country free from the great blotches of distressed poverty . We ought to find a way to guard against the perils and penalties of unemployment . We want an America of homes , illumined with hope and happiness , where mothers , freed from the necessity for long hours of toil beyond their own doors , may preside as befits the hearthstone of American citizenship . We want the cradle of American childhood rocked under conditions so wholesome and so hopeful that no blight may touch it in its development , and we want to provide that no selfish interest , no material necessity , no lack of opportunity shall prevent the gaining of that education so essential to best citizenship . There is no short cut to the making of these ideals into glad realities . The world has witnessed again and again the futility and the mischief of ill considered remedies for social and economic disorders . But we are mindful today as never before of the friction of modern industrialism , and we must learn its causes and reduce its evil consequences by sober and tested methods . Where genius has made for great possibilities , justice and happiness must be reflected in a greater common welfare . Service is the supreme commitment of life . I would rejoice to acclaim the era of the Golden Rule and crown it with the autocracy of service . I pledge an administration wherein all the agencies of Government are called to serve , and ever promote an understanding of Government purely as an expression of the popular will . One cannot stand in this presence and be unmindful of the tremendous responsibility . The world upheaval has added heavily to our tasks . But with the realization comes the surge of high resolve , and there is reassurance in belief in the God given destiny of our Republic . If I felt that there is to be sole responsibility in the Executive for the America of tomorrow I should shrink from the burden . But here are a hundred millions , with common concern and shared responsibility , answerable to God and country . The Republic summons them to their duty , and I invite co operation . I accept my part with single mindedness of purpose and humility of spirit , and implore the favor and guidance of God in His Heaven . With these I am unafraid , and confidently face the future . I have taken the solemn oath of office on that passage of Holy Writ wherein it is asked What doth the Lord require of thee but to do justly , and to love mercy , and to walk humbly with thy God This I plight to God and country .<speech_sep>It is a very gratifying privilege to come to the Congress with the Republic at peace with all the nations of the world . More , it is equally gratifying to report that our country is not only free from every impending , menace of war , but there are growing assurances of the permanency of the peace which we so deeply cherish . For approximately ten years we have dwelt amid menaces of war or as participants in war s actualities , and the inevitable aftermath , with its disordered conditions , bits added to the difficulties of government which adequately can not be appraised except by , those who are in immediate contact and know the responsibilities . Our tasks would be less difficult if we had only ourselves to consider , but so much of the world was involved , the disordered conditions are so well nigh universal , even among nations not engaged in actual warfare , that no permanent readjustments can be effected without consideration of our inescapable relationship to world affairs in finance and trade . Indeed , we should be unworthy of our best traditions if we were unmindful of social , moral , and political conditions which are not of direct concern to us , but which do appeal to the human sympathies and the very becoming interest of a people blest with our national good fortune . It is not my purpose to bring to you a program of world restoration . In the main such a program must be worked out by the nations more directly concerned . They must themselves turn to the heroic remedies for the menacing conditions under which they are struggling , then we can help , and we mean to help . We shall do so unselfishly because there is compensation in the consciousness of assisting , selfishly because the commerce and international exchanges in trade , which marked our high tide of fortunate advancement , are possible only when the nations of all continents are restored to stable order and normal relationship . In the main the contribution of this Republic to restored normalcy in the world must come through the initiative of the executive branch of the Government , but the best of intentions and most carefully considered purposes would fail utterly if the sanction and the cooperation of Congress were not cheerfully accorded . I am very sure we shall have no conflict of opinion about constitutional duties or authority . During the anxieties of war , when necessity seemed compelling there were excessive grants of authority and all extraordinary concentration of powers in the Chief Executive . The repeal of war time legislation and the automatic expirations which attended the peace proclamations have put an end to these emergency excesses but I have the wish to go further than that . I want to join you in restoring , in the most cordial way , the spirit of coordination and cooperation , and that mutuality of confidence and respect which is necessary ill representative popular government . Encroachment upon the functions of Congress or attempted dictation of its policy are not to be thought of , much less attempted , but there is all insistent call for harmony of purpose and concord of action to speed the solution of the difficult problems confronting both the legislative and executive branches of the Government . It is worth while to make allusion here to the character of our Government , mindful as one must be that an address to you is no less a message to all our people , for whom you speak most intimately . Ours is it popular Government through political parties . We divide along political lines , and I would ever have it so . I do not mean that partisan preferences should hinder any public servant in the performance of a conscientious and patriotic official duty . We saw partisan lines utterly obliterated when war imperiled , and our faith in the Republic was riveted anew . We ought not to find these partisan lines obstructing the expeditious solution of the urgent problems of peace . Granting that we are fundamentally a representative popular Government , with political parties the governing agencies , I believe the political party in power should assume responsibility , determine upon policies ill the conference which supplements conventions and election campaigns , and then strive for achievement through adherence to the accepted policy . There is vastly greater security , immensely more of the national viewpoint , much larger and prompter accomplishment where our divisions are along party lines , in the broader and loftier sense , than to divide geographically , or according to pursuits , or personal following . For a century and a third , parties have been charged with responsibility and held to strict accounting . When they fail , they are relieved of authority and the system has brought its to a national eminence no less than a world example . Necessarily legislation is a matter of compromise . The full ideal is seldom attained . In that meeting of minds necessary to insure results , there must and will be accommodations and compromises , but in the estimate of convictions and sincere purposes the supreme responsibility to national interest must not be ignored . The shield to the high minded public servant who adheres to party policy is manifest , but the higher purpose is the good of the Republic as a whole . It would be ungracious to withhold acknowledgment of the really large volume and excellent quality of work accomplished by the extraordinary session of Congress which so recently adjourned . I am not unmindful of the very difficult tasks with which you were called to deal , and no one can ignore the insistent conditions which , during recent years , have called for the continued and almost exclusive attention of your membership to public work . It would suggest insincerity if I expressed complete accord with every expression recorded in your roll calls , but we are all agreed about the difficulties and the inevitable divergence of opinion in seeking the reduction , amelioration and readjustment of the burdens of taxation . Later on , when other problems are solved , I shall make some recommendations about renewed consideration of our tax program , but for the immediate time before us we must be content with the billion dollar reduction in the tax draft upon the people , and diminished irritations , banished uncertainty and improved methods of collection . By your sustainment of the rigid economies already inaugurated , with hoped for extension of these economies and added efficiencies in administration , I believe further reductions may be enacted and hindering burdens abolished . In these urgent economies we shall be immensely assisted by the budget system for which you made provision in the extraordinary session . The first budget is before you . Its preparation is a signal achievement , and the perfection of the system , a thing impossible in the few months available for its initial trial , will mark its enactment as the beginning of the greatest reformation in governmental practices since the beginning of the Republic . There is pending a grant of authority to the administrative branch of the Government for the funding and settlement of our vast foreign loans growing out of our grant of war credits . With the hands of the executive branch held impotent to deal with these debts we are hindering urgent readjustments among our debtors and accomplishing nothing for ourselves . I think it is fair for the Congress to assume that the executive branch of the Government would adopt no major policy in dealing with these matters which would conflict with the purpose of Congress in authorizing the loans , certainly not without asking congressional approval , but there are minor problems incident to prudent loan transactions and the safeguarding of our interests which can not even be attempted without this authorization . It will be helpful to ourselves and it will improve conditions among our debtors if funding and the settlement of defaulted interest may be negotiated . The previous Congress , deeply concerned in behalf of our merchant marine , in 1920 enacted the existing shipping law , designed for the upbuilding of the American merchant marine . Among other things provided to encourage our shipping on the world s seas , the Executive was directed to give notice of the termination of all existing commercial treaties in order to admit of reduced duties on imports carried in American bottoms . During the life of the act no Executive has complied with this order of the Congress . When the present administration came into responsibility it began an early inquiry into the failure to execute the expressed purpose of the Jones Act . Only one conclusion has been possible . Frankly , Members of House and Senate , eager as I am to join you in the making of an American merchant marine commensurate with our commerce , the denouncement of out commercial treaties would involve us in a chaos of trade relationships and add indescribably to the confusion of the already disordered commercial world . Our power to do so is not disputed , but power and ships , without comity of relationship , will not give us the expanded trade which is inseparably linked with a great merchant marine . Moreover , the applied reduction of duty , for which the treaty denouncements were necessary , encouraged only the carrying of dutiable imports to our shores , while the tonnage which unfurls the flag on the seas is both free and dutiable , and the cargoes which make it nation eminent in trade are outgoing , rather than incoming . It is not my thought to lay the problem before you in detail today . It is desired only to say to you that the executive branch of the Government , uninfluenced by the protest of any nation , for none has been made , is well convinced that your proposal , highly intended and heartily supported here , is so fraught with difficulties and so marked by tendencies to discourage trade expansion , that I invite your tolerance of noncompliance for only a few weeks until a plan may be presented which contemplates no greater draft upon the Public Treasury , and which , though yet too crude to offer it to day , gives such promise of expanding our merchant marine , that it will argue its own approval . It is enough to say to day that we are so possessed of ships , and the American intention to establish it merchant marine is so unalterable , that a plain of reimbursement , at no other cost than is contemplated in the existing act , will appeal to the pride and encourage the hope of all the American people . There is before you the completion of the enactment of what has been termed a permanent tariff law , the word permanent being used to distinguish it from the emergency act which the Congress expedited early in the extraordinary session , and which is the law today . I can not too strongly urge in early completion of this necessary legislation . It is needed to stabilize our industry at home it is essential to make more definite our trade relations abroad . More , it is vital to the preservation of many of our own industries which contribute so notably to the very lifeblood of our Nation . There is now , and there always will be , a storm of conflicting opinion about any tariff revision . We can not go far wrong when we base our tariffs on the policy of preserving the productive activities which enhance employment and add to our national prosperity . Again comes the reminder that we must not be unmindful of world conditions , that peoples are struggling for industrial rehabilitation and that we can not dwell in industrial and commercial exclusion and at the same time do the just thing in aiding world reconstruction and readjustment . We do not seek a selfish aloofness , and we could not profit by it , were it possible . We recognize the necessity of buying wherever we sell , and the permanency of trade lies in its acceptable exchanges . In our pursuit of markets we must give as well as receive . We can not sell to others who do not produce , nor can we buy unless we produce at home . Sensible of every obligation of humanity , commerce and finance , linked as they are in the present world condition , it is not to be argued that we need destroy ourselves to be helpful to others . With all my heart I wish restoration to the peoples blighted by the awful World War , but the process of restoration does not lie in our acceptance of like conditions . It were better to remain on firm ground , strive for ample employment and high standards of wage at home , and point the way to balanced budgets , rigid economies , and resolute , efficient work as the necessary remedies to cure disaster . Everything relating to trade , among ourselves and among nations , has been expanded , excessive , inflated , abnormal , and there is a madness in finance which no American policy alone will cure . We are a creditor Nation , not by normal processes , but made so by war . It is not an unworthy selfishness to seek to save ourselves , when the processes of that salvation are not only not denied to others , but commended to them . We seek to undermine for others no industry by which they subsist we are obligated to permit the undermining of none of our own which make for employment and maintained activities . Every contemplation , it little matters in which direction one turns , magnifies the difficulty of tariff legislation , but the necessity of the revision is magnified with it . Doubtless we are justified in seeking . 1 More flexible policy than we have provided heretofore . I hope a way will be found to make for flexibility and elasticity , so that rates may be adjusted to meet unusual and changing conditions which can not be accurately anticipated . There are problems incident to unfair practices , and to exchanges which madness in money have made almost unsolvable . I know of no manner in which to effect this flexibility other than the extension of the powers of the Tariff Commission so that it can adapt itself to it scientific and wholly just administration of the law . I am not unmindful of the constitutional difficulties . These can be met by giving authority to the Chief Executive , who could proclaim additional duties to meet conditions which the Congress may designate . At this point I must disavow any desire to enlarge the Executive s powers or add to the responsibilities of the office . They are already too large . If there were any other plan I would prefer it . The grant of authority to proclaim would necessarily bring the Tariff Commission into new and enlarged activities , because no Executive could discharge such a duty except upon the information acquired and recommendations made by this commission . But the plan is feasible , and the proper functioning of the board would give its it better administration of a defined policy than ever can be made possible by tariff duties prescribed without flexibility . There is a manifest difference of opinion about the merits of American valuation . Many nations have adopted delivery valuation as the basis for collecting duties that is , they take the cost of the imports delivered at the port of entry as the basis for levying duty . It is no radical departure , in view of varying conditions and the disordered state of money values , to provide for American valuation , but there can not be ignored the danger of such a valuation , brought to the level of our own production costs , making our tariffs prohibitive . It might do so in many instances where imports ought to be encouraged . I believe Congress ought well consider the desirability of the only promising alternative , namely , a provision authorizing proclaimed American valuation , under prescribed conditions , on any given list of articles imported . In this proposed flexibility , authorizing increases to meet conditions so likely to change , there should also be provision for decreases . A rate may be just to day , and entirely out of proportion six months from to day . If our tariffs are to be made equitable , and not necessarily burden our imports and hinder our trade abroad , frequent adjustment will be necessary for years to come . Knowing the impossibility of modification by act of Congress for any one or a score of lines without involving a long array of schedules , I think we shall go a long ways toward stabilization , if there is recognition of the Tariff Commission s fitness to recommend urgent changes by proclamation . I am sure about public opinion favoring the early determination of our tariff policy . There have been reassuring signs of a business revival from the deep slump which all the world has been experiencing . Our unemployment , which gave its deep concern only a few weeks ago , has grown encouragingly less , and new assurances and renewed confidence will attend the congressional declaration that American industry will be held secure . Much has been said about the protective policy for ourselves making it impossible for our debtors to discharge their obligations to us . This is a contention not now pressing for decision . If we must choose between a people in idleness pressing for the payment of indebtedness , or a people resuming the normal ways of employment and carrying the credit , let us choose the latter . Sometimes we appraise largest the human ill most vivid in our minds . We have been giving , and are giving now , of our influence and appeals to minimize the likelihood of war and throw off the crushing burdens of armament . It is all very earnest , with a national soul impelling . But a people unemployed , and gaunt with hunger , face a situation quite as disheartening as war , and our greater obligation to day is to do the Government s part toward resuming productivity and promoting fortunate and remunerative employment . Something more than tariff protection is required by American agriculture . To the farmer has come the earlier and the heavier burdens of readjustment . There is actual depression in our agricultural industry , while agricultural prosperity is absolutely essential to the general prosperity of the country . Congress has sought very earnestly to provide relief . It has promptly given such temporary relief as has been possible , but the call is insistent for the permanent solution . It is inevitable that large crops lower the prices and short crops advance them . No legislation can cure that fundamental law . But there must be some economic solution for the excessive variation in returns for agricultural production . It is rather shocking to be told , and to have the statement strongly supported , that 9 , 000 , 000 bales of cotton , raised on American plantations in a given year , will actually be worth more to the producers than 13 , 000 , 000 bales would have been . Equally shocking is the statement that 700 , 000 , 000 bushels of wheat , raised by American farmers , would bring them more money than a billion bushels . Yet these are not exaggerated statements . In a world where there are tens of millions who need food and clothing which they can not get , such a condition is sure to indict the social system which makes it possible . In the main the remedy lies in distribution and marketing . Every proper encouragement should be given to the cooperative marketing programs . These have proven very helpful to the cooperating communities in Europe . In Russia the cooperative community has become the recognized bulwark of law and order , and saved individualism from engulfment in social paralysis . Ultimately they will be accredited with the salvation of the Russian State . There is the appeal for this experiment . Why not try it No one challenges the right of the farmer to a larger share of the consumer s pay for his product , no one disputes that we can not live without the farmer . He is justified in rebelling against the transportation cost . Given a fair return for his labor , he will have less occasion to appeal for financial aid and given assurance that his labors shall not be in vain , we reassure all the people of a production sufficient to meet our National requirement and guard against disaster . The base of the pyramid of civilization which rests upon the soil is shrinking through the drift of population from farm to city . For a generation we have been expressing more or less concern about this tendency . Economists have warned and statesmen have deplored . We thought for at time that modern conveniences and the more intimate contact would halt the movement , but it has gone steadily on . Perhaps only grim necessity will correct it , but we ought to find a less drastic remedy . The existing scheme of adjusting freight rates has been favoring the basing points , until industries are attracted to some centers and repelled from others . A great volume of uneconomic and wasteful transportation has attended , and the cost increased accordingly . The grain milling and meat packing industries afford ample illustration , and the attending concentration is readily apparent . The menaces in concentration are not limited to the retardingly influences on agriculture . Manifestly the conditions and terms of railway transportation ought not be permitted to increase this undesirable tendency . We have a just pride in our great cities , but we shall find a greater pride in the Nation , which has it larger distribution of its population into the country , where comparatively self sufficient smaller communities may blend agricultural and manufacturing interests in harmonious helpfulness and enhanced good fortune . Such a movement contemplates no destruction of things wrought , of investments made , or wealth involved . It only looks to a general policy of transportation of distributed industry , and of highway construction , to encourage the spread of our population and restore the proper balance between city and country . The problem may well have your earnest attention . It has been perhaps the proudest claim of our American civilization that in dealing with human relationships it has constantly moved toward such justice in distributing the product of human energy that it has improved continuously the economic status of the mass of people . Ours has been a highly productive social organization . On the way up from the elemental stages of society we have eliminated slavery and serfdom and are now far on the way to the elimination of poverty . Through the eradication of illiteracy and the diffussion of education mankind has reached a stage where we may fairly say that in the United States equality of opportunity has been attained , though all are not prepared to embrace it . There is , indeed , a too great divergence between the economic conditions of the most and the least favored classes in the community . But even that divergence has now come to the point where we bracket the very poor and the very rich together as the least fortunate classes . Our efforts may well be directed to improving the status of both . While this set of problems is commonly comprehended under the general phrase Capital and Labor , it is really vastly broader . It is a question of social and economic organization . Labor has become a large contributor , through its savings , to the stock of capital while the people who own the largest individual aggregates of capital are themselves often hard and earnest laborers . Very often it is extremely difficult to draw the line of demarcation between the two groups to determine whether a particular individual is entitled to be set down as laborer or as capitalist . In a very large proportion of cases he is both , and when he is both he is the most useful citizen . The right of labor to organize is just as fundamental and necessary as is the right of capital to organize . The right of labor to negotiate , to deal with and solve its particular problems in an organized way , through its chosen agents , is just as essential as is the right of capital to organize , to maintain corporations , to limit the liabilities of stockholders . Indeed , we have come to recognize that the limited liability of the citizen as a member of a labor organization closely parallels the limitation of liability of the citizen as a stockholder in a corporation for profit . Along this line of reasoning we shall make the greatest progress toward solution of our problem of capital and labor . In the case of the corporation which enjoys the privilege of limited liability of stockholders , particularly when engaged in in the public service , it is recognized that the outside public has a large concern which must be protected and so we provide regulations , restrictions , and in some cases detailed supervision . Likewise in the case of labor organizations , we might well apply similar and equally well defined principles of regulation and supervision in order to conserve the public s interests as affected by their operations . Just as it is not desirable that a corporation shall be allowed to impose undue exactions upon the public , so it is not desirable that a labor organization shall be permitted to exact unfair terms of employment or subject the public to actual distresses in order to enforce its terms . Finally , just as we are earnestly seeking for procedures whereby to adjust and settle political differences between nations without resort to war , so we may well look about for means to settle the differences between organized capital and organized labor without resort to those forms of warfare which we recognize under the name of strikes , lockouts , boycotts , and the like . As we have great bodies of law carefully regulating the organization and operations of industrial and financial corporations , as we have treaties and compacts among nations which look to the settlement of differences without the necessity of conflict in arms , so we might well have plans of conference , of common counsel , of mediation , arbitration , and judicial determination in controversies between labor and capital . To accomplish this would involve the necessity to develop a thoroughgoing code of practice in dealing with such affairs It might be well to frankly set forth the superior interest of the community as a whole to either the labor group or the capital group . With rights , privileges , immunities , and modes of organization thus carefully defined , it should be possible to set up judicial or quasi judicial tribunals for the consideration and determination of all disputes which menace the public welfare . In an industrial society such as ours the strike , the lockout , and the boycott are as much out of place and as disastrous in their results as is war or armed revolution in the domain of politics . The same disposition to reasonableness , to conciliation , to recognition of the other side s point of view , the same provision of fair and recognized tribunals and processes , ought to make it possible to solve the one set of questions aseasily as the other . I believe the solution is possible . The consideration of such a policy would necessitate the exercise of care and deliberation in the construction of a code and a charter of elemental rights , dealing with the relations of employer and employee . This foundation in the law , dealing with the modern conditions of social and economic life , would hasten the building of the temple of peace in industry which a rejoicing nation would acclaim . After each war , until the last , the Government has been enabled to give homes to its returned soldiers , and a large part of our settlement and development has attended this generous provision of land for the Nation s defenders . There is yet unreserved approximately 200 , 000 , 000 acres in the public domain , 20 , 000 , 000 acres of which are known to be susceptible of reclamation and made fit for homes by provision for irrigation . The Government has been assisting in the development of its remaining lands , until the estimated increase in land values in the irrigated sections is full 500 , 000 , 000 and the crops of 1920 alone on these lands are estimated to exceed 100 , 000 , 000 . Under the law authorization these expenditures for development the advances are to be returned and it would be good business for the Government to provide lor the reclamation of the remaining 20 , 000 , 000 acres , in addition to expediting the completion of projects long under way . Under what is known as the coal and gas lease law , applicable also to deposits of phosphates and other minerals on the public domain , leases are now being made on the royalty basis , and are producing large revenues to the Government . Under this legislation , 10 per centum of all royalties is to be paid directly to the Federal Treasury , and of the remainder 50 per centum is to be used for reclamation of arid lands by irrigation , and 40 per centum is to be paid to the States , in which the operations are located , to be used by them for school and road purposes . These resources are so vast , and the development is affording so reliable a basis of estimate , that the Interior Department expresses the belief that ultimately the present law will add in royalties and payments to the treasuries of the Federal Government and the States containing these public lands a total of 12 , 000 , 000 , 000 . This means , of course , an added wealth of many times that sum . These prospects seem to afford every justification of Government advances in reclamation and irrigation . Contemplating the inevitable and desirable increase of population , there is another phase of reclamation full worthy of consideration . There are 79 , 000 , 000 acres of swamp and cut over lands which may be reclaimed and made as valuable as any farm lands we possess . These acres are largely located in Southern States , and the greater proportion is owned by the States or by private citizens . Congress has a report of the survey of this field for reclamation , and the feasibility is established . I gladly commend Federal aid , by way of advances , where State and private participation is assured . Home making is one of the greater benefits which government can bestow . Measures are pending embodying this sound policy to which we may well adhere . It is easily possible to make available permanent homes which will provide , in turn , for prosperous American families , without injurious competition with established activities , or imposition on wealth already acquired . While we are thinking of promoting the fortunes of our own people , I am sure there is room in the sympathetic thought of America for fellow human beings who are suffering and dying of starvation in Russia . A severe drought in the Valley of the Volga has plunged 15 , 000 , 000 people into grievous famine . Our voluntary agencies are exerting themselves to the utmost to save the lives of children in this area , but it is now evident that unless relief is afforded the loss of life will extend into many millions . America can not be deaf to such a call as that . We do not recognize the government of Russia , nor tolerate the propaganda which emanates therefrom , but we do not forget the traditions of Russian friendship . We may put aside our consideration of all international politics and fundamental differences in government . The big thing is the call of the suffering and the dying . Unreservedly I recommend the appropriation necessary to supply the American Relief Administration with 10 , 000 , 000 bushels of corn and 1 , 000 , 000 bushels of seed grains , not alone to halt the wave of death through starvation , but to enable spring planting in areas where the seed grains have been exhausted temporarily to stem starvation . The American Relief Administration is directed in Russia by former officers of our own armies , and has fully demonstrated its ability to transport and distribute relief through American hands without hindrance or loss . The time has come to add the Government s support to the wonderful relief already wrought out of the generosity of the American private purse . I am not unaware that we have suffering and privation at home . When it exceeds the capacity for the relief within the States concerned , it will have Federal consideration . It seems to me we should be indifferent to our own heart promptings , and out of accord with the spirit which acclaims the Christmastide , if we do not give out of our national abundance to lighten this burden of woe upon a people blameless and helpless in famine s peril . There are a full score of topics concerning which it would be becoming to address you , and on which I hope to make report at a later time . I have alluded to the things requiring your earlier attention . However , I can not end this limited address without a suggested amendment to the organic law . Many of us belong to that school of thought which is hesitant about altering the fundamental law . I think our tax problems , the tendency of wealth to seek nontaxable investment , and the menacing increase of public debt , Federal , State and municipal all justify a proposal to change the Constitution so as to end the issue of nontaxable bonds . No action can change the status of the many billions outstanding , but we can guard against future encouragement of capital s paralysis , while a halt in the growth of public indebtedness would be beneficial throughout our whole land . Such a change in the Constitution must be very thoroughly considered before submission . There ought to be known what influence it will have on the inevitable refunding of our vast national debt , how it will operate on the necessary refunding of State and municipal debt , how the advantages of Nation over State and municipality , or the contrary , may be avoided . Clearly the States would not ratify to their own apparent disadvantage . I suggest the consideration because the drift of wealth into nontaxable securities is hindering the flow of large capital to our industries , manufacturing , agricultural , and carrying , until we are discouraging the very activities which make our wealth . Agreeable to your expressed desire and in complete accord with the purposes of the executive branch of the Government , there is in Washington , as you happily know , an International Conference now most earnestly at work on plans for the limitation of armament , a naval holiday , and the just settlement of problems which might develop into causes of international disagreement . It is easy to believe a world hope is centered on this Capital City . A most gratifying world accomplishment is not improbable .<speech_sep>