Citizens of free Berlin , citizens of united Germany , Chancellor Kohl , Mayor Diepgen , Berliners the world over , thank you for this wonderful welcome to your magnificent city . We stand together where Europe s heart was cut in half and we celebrate unity . We stand where crude walls of concrete separated mother from child and we meet as one family . We stand where those who sought a new life instead found death . And we rejoice in renewal . Berliners , you have won your long struggle . You have proved that no wall can forever contain the mighty power of freedom . Within a few years , an American President will visit a Berlin that is again the seat of your government . And I pledge to you today a new American Embassy will also stand in Berlin . Half a century has passed since Berlin was first divided , 33 years since the Wall went up . In that time , one half of this city lived encircled and the other half enslaved . But one force endured , your courage . Your courage has taken many forms the bold courage of June 17th , 1953 , when those trapped in the East threw stones at the tanks of tyranny the quiet courage to lift children above the wall so that their grandparents on the other side could see those they loved but could not touch the inner courage to reach for the ideas that make you free and the civil courage , civil courage of 5 years ago when , starting in the strong hearts and candlelit streets of Leipzig , you turned your dreams of a better life into the chisels of liberty . Now , you who found the courage to endure , to resist , to tear down the Wall , must found a new civil courage , the courage to build . The Berlin Wall is gone . Now our generation must decide , what will we build in its place Standing here today , we can see the answer a Europe where all nations are independent and democratic where free markets and prosperity know no borders where our security is based on building bridges , not walls where all our citizens can go as far as their God given abilities will take them and raise their children in peace and hope . The work of freedom is not easy . It requires discipline , responsibility , and a faith strong enough to endure failure and criticism . And it requires vigilance . Here in Germany , in the United States , and throughout the entire world , we must reject those who would divide us with scalding words about race , ethnicity , or religion . I appeal especially to the young people of this nation believe you can live in peace with those who are different from you . Believe in your own future . Believe you can make a difference and summon your own courage to build , and you will . There is reason for you to believe . Already , the new future is taking shape in the growing chorus of voices that speak the common language of democracy in the growing economies of Western Europe , the United States , and our partners in the progress of economic reform , democracy , and freedom in lands that were not free in NATO s Partnership For Peace where 21 nations have joined in military cooperation and pledge to respect each other s borders . It is to all of you in pursuit of that new future that I say in the name of the pilots whose airlift kept Berlin alive , in the name of the sentries at Checkpoint Charlie who stood face to face with enemy tanks , in the name of every American President who has come to Berlin , in the name of the American forces who will stay in Europe to guard freedom s future , in all of their names I say , Amerika steht an ihrer Seite , jetzt und fuer immer . America is on your side now and forever . Moments ago , with my friend Chancellor Kohl , I walked where my predecessors could not , through the Brandenburg Gate . For over two centuries in every age , that gate has been a symbol of the time . Sometimes it has been a monument to conquest and a tower of tyranny . But in our own time , you , courageous Berliners , have again made the Brandenburg what its builders meant it to be , a gateway . Now , together , we can walk through that gateway to our destiny , to a Europe united , united in peace , united in freedom , united in progress for the first time in history . Nothing will stop us . All things are possible . Nichts wird uns aufhalten . Alles ist moeglich . Berlin ist frei . Berlin is free .<speech_sep>To all of our distinguished guests from all the services , to General Powell and the Joint Chiefs , Secretary Aspin , Vice President , ladies and gentlemen , and especially to General Johnston and the men and women of the Unified Task Force in Somalia . General Johnston has just reported to me Mission accomplished . And so , on behalf of all the American people , I say to you , General , and to all whom you brought with you Welcome home , and thank you for a job very , very well done . You represent the thousands who served in this crucial operation , in the First Marine Expeditionary Force , in the Army 10th Mountain Division , aboard the Navy s Tripoli Amphibious Ready Group , in the Air Force and Air National Guard airlift squadrons , and in other units in each of our services . Over 30 , 000 American military personnel served at sometime in these last 5 months in Somalia . And serving alongside you were thousands of others from 20 nations . Although your mission was humanitarian and not combat , you nonetheless faced difficult and dangerous conditions . You sometimes were subjected to abuse and forced to dodge rocks and even bullets . You saw firsthand the horror of hunger , disease , and death . But you pressed on with what you set out to do , and you were successful . You have served in the best tradition of the Armed Forces of the United States , and you have made the American people very , very proud . In the weeks to come , we will formally recognize the contributions of those who participated in Operation Restore Hope . But earlier today , to honor their accomplishments and that of all who supported that effort , I awarded to General Johnston the Defense Distinguished Service Medal in recognition not only of his extraordinary service but also of all those who served with him so well . Thank you all for your dedicated work . To understand the magnitude of what our forces in Somalia accomplished , the world need only look back at Somalia s condition just 6 months ago . Hundreds of thousands of people were starving armed anarchy ruled the land and the streets of every city and town . Today , food is flowing crops are growing schools and hospitals are reopening . Although there is still much to be done if enduring peace is to prevail , one can now envision a day when Somalia will be reconstructed as a functioning civil society . If all of you who served had not gone , it is absolutely certain that tens of thousands would have died by now . You saved their lives . You gave the people of Somalia the opportunity to look beyond starvation and focus on their future and the future of their children . Although you went on a mission of peace , eight Americans did not return . We salute each of them . We thank them and their families . America will never forget what they did or what they gave . To their loved ones we extend our hearts and our prayers . As we honor the service of those who have returned and those who did not , it is fitting that we reflect on what the successful mission signifies for the future . This , the largest humanitarian relief operation in history , has written an important new chapter in the international annals of peacekeeping and humanitarian assistance . You have shown that the work of the just can prevail over the arms of the warlords . You have demonstrated that the world is ready to mobilize its resources in new ways to face the challenges of a new age . And you have proved yet again that American leadership can help to mobilize international action to create a better world . You also leave behind a peacekeeping force with a significant American component . This force is a reflection of the new era we have entered , for it has Americans participating in new ways . Just hours ago , General Johnston turned over command to General Bir of Turkey as UNTAF became UNOSOM IYou set the stage and made it possible for that force to do its mission and for the Somalis to complete the work of rebuilding and creating a peaceful , self sustaining , and democratic civil society . Your successful return reminds us that other missions lie ahead for our Nation . Some we can foresee , and others we cannot . As always we stand ready to defend our interests , working with others where possible and by ourselves where necessary . But increasingly in this new era , we will need to work with an array of multinational partners , often in new arrangements . You have proved again that that is possible . You have proved again that our involvement in multilateral efforts need not be open ended or illdefined , that we can go abroad and accomplish some distinct objectives , and then come home again when the mission is accomplished . Some will ask why , if the cold war ended , we must still support the world s greatest military forces , the kind that General Johnston and his comrades represent . I say it is because we still have interests we still face threats we still have responsibilities . The word has not seen the end of evil , and America can lead other countries to share more of the responsibilities that they ought to be shouldering . Some will ask why we must so often be the one to lead . Well , of course we cannot be the world s policeman , but we are , and we must continue to be , the world s leader . That is the job of the United States of America . And so today , America opens its arms in a hearty welcome home . General , to you and all the men and women who served with you , you have the admiration of the world and the thanks of your country for continuing the tradition of our Armed Forces and the values that make us proud to be Americans and for proving that we can lead and serve in new ways in a new world . In the words of the Scriptures Blessed are the peacemakers . Thank you very much .<speech_sep>Prime Minister Rabin , Chairman Arafat , Foreign Minister Peres , Abbas , President Carter , President Bush , distinguished guests . On behalf of the United States and Russia , cosponsors of the Middle East peace process , welcome to this great occasion of history and hope . Today we bear witness to an extraordinary act in one of history s defining dramas , a drama that began in the time of our ancestors when the word went forth from a sliver of land between tide fiver Jordan and the Mediterranean Sea . That hallowed piece of earth , that land of light and revelation is the home to the memories and dreams of Jews , Muslims , and Christians throughout the world . As we all know , devotion to that land has also been the source of conflict and bloodshed for too long . Throughout this century , bitterness between the Palestinian and Jewish people has robbed the entire region of its resources , its potential , and too many of its sons and daughters . The land has been so drenched in warfare and hatred , the conflicting claims of history etched so deeply in the souls of the combatants there , that many believed the past would always have the upper hand . Then , 14 years ago , the past began to give way when , at this place and upon this desk , three men of great vision signed their names to the Camp David accords . Today we honor the memories of Menachem Begin and Anwar Sadat , and we salute the wise leadership of President Jimmy Carter . Then , as now , we heard from those who said that conflict would come again soon . But the peace between Egypt and Israel has endured . Just so , this bold new venture today , this brave gamble that the future can be better than the past , must endure . Two years ago in Madrid , another President took a major step on the road to peace by bringing Israel and all her neighbors together to launch direct negotiations . And today we also express our deep thanks for the skillful leadership of President George Bush . Ever since Harry Truman first recognized Israel , every American President , Democrat and Republican , has worked for peace between Israel and her neighbors . Now the efforts of all who have labored before us bring us to this moment , a moment when we dare to pledge what for so long seemed difficult even to imagine that the security of the Israeli people will be reconciled with the hopes of the Palestinian people and there will be more security and more hope for all . Today the leadership of Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization will sign a declaration of principles on interim Palestinian self government . It charts a course toward reconciliation between two peoples who have both known the bitterness of exile . Now both pledge to put old sorrows and antagonisms behind them and to work for a shared future shaped by the values of the Torah , the Koran , and the Bible . Let us salute also today the Government of Norway for its remarkable role in nurturing this agreement . But above all , let us today pay tribute to the leaders who had the courage to lead their people toward peace , away from the scars of battle , the wounds and the losses of the past , toward a brighter tomorrow . The word today thanks Prime Minister Rabin , Foreign Minister Peres , and Chairman Arafat . Their tenacity and vision has given us the promise of a new beginning . What these leaders have done now must be done by others . Their achievement must be a catalyst for progress in all aspects of the peace process . And those of us who support them must be there to help in all aspects . For the peace must render the people who make it more secure . A peace of the brave is . within our reach . Throughout the Middle East , there is a great yearning for the quiet miracle of a normal life . We know a difficult road lies ahead . Every peace has its enemies , those who still prefer the easy habits of hatred to the hard labors of reconciliation . But Prime Minister Rabin has reminded us that you do not have to make peace with your friends . And the Koran teaches that if the enemy inclines toward peace , do thou also incline toward peace . Therefore , let us resolve that this new mutual recognition will be a continuing process in which the parties transform the very way they see and understand each other . Let the skeptics of this peace recall what once existed among these people . There was a time when the traffic of ideas and commerce and pilgrims flowed uninterrupted among the cities of the Fertile Crescent . In Spain and the Middle East , Muslims and Jews once worked together to write brilliant chapters in the history of literature and science . All this can come to pass again . Prime Minister , Chairman , I pledge the active support of the United States of America to the difficult work that lies ahead . The United States is committed to ensuring that the people who are affected by this agreement will be made more secure by it and to leading the world in marshaling the resources necessary to implement the difficult details that will make real the principles to which you commit yourselves today . Together let us imagine what can be accomplished if all the energy and ability the Israelis and the Palestinians have invested into your struggle can now be channeled into cultivating the land and freshening the waters , into ending the boycotts and creating new industry , into building a land as bountiful and peaceful as it is holy . Above all , let us dedicate ourselves today to your region s next generation . In this entire assembly , no one is more important than the group of Israeli and Arab children who are seated here with us today . Prime Minister , Chairman , this day belongs to you . And because of what you have done , tomorrow belongs to them . We must not leave them prey to the politics of extremism and despair , to those who would derail this process because they cannot overcome the fears and hatreds of the past . We must not betray their future . For too long , the young of the Middle East have been caught in a web of hatred not of their own making . For too long , they have been taught from the chronicles of war . Now we can give them the chance to know the season of peace . For them we must realize the prophecy of Isaiah that the cry of violence shall no more be heard in your land , nor wrack nor ruin within your borders . The children of Abraham , the descendants of Isaac and Ishmael , have embarked together on a bold journey . Together today , with all our hearts and all our souls , we bid them shalom , salaam , peace .<speech_sep>Thank you . Please sit down . Bishop Ford , Mason , Bishop Owens , and Bishop Anderson my bishops , Bishop Walker and Bishop Lindsey . Now , if you have not had Bishop Lindsey s barbecue , you have not had barbecue . And if you have not heard Bishop Walker attack one of my opponents , you have never heard a political speech . I am glad to be here . You have touched my heart . You have brought tears to my eyes and joy to my spirit . Last year I was with you over at the convention center . Two years ago your bishops came to Arkansas , and we laid a plaque at the point in Little Book , Arkansas , at 8th and Gaines , where Bishop Mason received the inspiration for the name of this great church . Bishop Brooks said from his pulpit that I would be elected President when most people thought I would not survive . I thank him , and I thank your faith , and I thank your works , for without you I would not be here today as your President . Many have spoken eloquently and well , and many have been introduced . I want to thank my good friend Governor McWherter and my friend Mayor Herenton for being with me today my friend Congressman Harold Ford , we are glad to be in his congressional district . I would like to , if I might , introduce just three other people who are Members of the Congress . They have come here with me , and without them it is hard for me to do much or you . The President proposes and the Congress disposes . Sometimes they dispose of what I propose , but I am happy to say that according to a recent report in Washington , notwithstanding what you may have heard , this Congress has given me a higher percentage of my proposals than any first year President since President Eisenhower . And I thank them for that . Let me introduce my good friend , a visitor to Tennessee , Congressman Bill Jefferson from New Orleans , Louisiana please stand tip and an early supporter of my campaign , Congressman Bob Clement from Tennessee , known to many of you and a young man who is going to be coming back to the people of Tennessee and asking them to give him a promotion next year , Congressman Jim Cooper from Tennessee , and a good friend . Please welcome him . You know , in the last 10 months , I have been called a lot of things , but nobody s called me a bishop yet . When I was about 9 years old , my beloved and now departed grandmother , who was a very wise woman , looked at me and she said , You know , I believe you could be a preacher if you were just a little better boy . Proverbs says , A happy heart doeth good like medicine , but a broken spirit dryeth the bone . This is a happy place , and I am happy to be here . I thank you for your spirit . By the grace of God and your help , last year I was elected President of this great country . I never dreamed that I would ever have a chance to come to this hallowed place where Martin Luther King gave his last sermon . I ask you to think today about the purpose for which I ran and the purpose for which so many of you worked to put me in this great office . I have worked hard to keep faith with our common efforts to restore the economy , to reverse the politics of helping only those at the top of our totem pole and not the hard working middle class or the poor to bring our people together across racial and regional and political lines , to make a strength out of our diversity instead of letting it tear us apart to reward work and family and community and try to move us forward into the 21st century . I have tried to keep faith . Thirteen percent of all my Presidential appointments are African Americans , and there are five African Americans in the Cabinet of the United States , 2 1 2 times as many as have ever served in the history of this great land . I have sought to advance the right to vote with the motor voter bill , supported so strongly by all the churches in our country . And next week it will be my great honor to sign the restoration of religious freedoms act , a bill supported widely by people across all religions and political philosophies to put back the real meaning of the Constitution , to give you and every other American the freedom to do what is most important in your life , to worship God as your spirit leads you . I say to you , my fellow Americans , we have made a good beginning . Inflation is clown . Interest rates are down . The deficit is down . Investment is up . Millions of Americans , including , I bet , some people in this room , have refinanced their homes or their business loans just in the last year . And in the last 10 months , this economy bas produced more jobs in the private sector than in the previous 4 years . We have passed a law called the family leave law , which says you cannot be fired if you take a little time off when a baby is born or a parent is sick . We know that most Americans have to work , but you ought not to have to give up being a good parent just to take a job . If you cannot succeed as a worker and a parent , this country cannot make it . We have radically reformed the college loan program , as I promised , to lower the cost of college loans and broaden the availability of it and make the repayment terms easier . And we have passed the national service law that will give in 3 years , 3 years from now , 100 , 000 young Americans the chance to serve their communities at home , to repair the frayed bonds of community , to build up the needs of people at the grassroots , and at the same time , earn some money to pay for a college education . It is a wonderful idea . On April 15th when people pay their taxes , somewhere between 15 million and 18 million working families on modest incomes , families with children and incomes of tinder 23 , 000 , will get a tax cut , not a tax increase , in the most important effort to ensure that we reward work and family in the last 20 years . Fifty million American parents and their children will be advantaged by putting the Tax Code back on the side of working American parents for a change . Under the leadership of the First Lady , we have produced a comprehensive plan to guarantee health care security to all Americans . How can we expect the American people to work and to live with all the changes in a global economy , where the average 18 year old will change work seven times in a lifetime , unless we can simply say we have joined the ranks of all the other advanced countries in the world you can have decent health care that is always there , that can never be taken away It is time we did that , long past time . I ask you to help us achieve that . But we have so much more to do . You and I know that most people are still working harder for the same or lower wages , that many people are afraid that their job will go away . We have to provide the education and training our people need , not just for our children but for our adults , too . If we cannot close this country up to the forces of change sweeping throughout the world , we have to at least guarantee people the security of being employable . They have to be able to get a new job if they are going to have to get a new job . We do not do that today , and we must , and we intend to proceed until that is done . We have a guarantee that there will be some investment in those areas of our country , in the inner cities and in the destitute rural areas in the Mississippi Delta , of my borne State and this State and Louisiana and Mississippi and other places like it throughout America . It is all very well to train people , but if they do not have a job , they can be trained for nothing . We must get investment into those places where the people are dying for work . And Finally , let me say , we must find people who will buy what we have to produce . We are the most productive people on Earth . That makes us proud . But what that means is that every year one person can produce more in the same amount of time . Now , if fewer and fewer people can produce more and more things , and yet you want to create more jobs and raise people s incomes , you have to have more customers for what it is you are making . And that is why I have worked so hard to sell more American products around the world why I have asked that we be able to sell billions of dollars of computers we used not to sell to foreign countries and foreign interests , to put our people to work why next week I am going all the way to Washington State to meet with the President of China and the Prime Minister of Japan and the heads of 13 other Asian countries , the fastest growing part of the world , to say , We want to be your partners . We will buy your goods , but we want you to buy ours , too , if you please . That is why . That is why I have worked so hard for this North American trade agreement that Congressman Ford endorsed today and Congressman Jefferson endorsed and Congressman Cooper and Congressman Clement , because we know that Americans can compete and win only if people will buy what it is we have to sell . There are 90 million people in Mexico . Seventy cents of every dollar they spend on foreign goods , they spend on American goods . People worry fairly about people shutting down plants in America and going not just to Mexico but to any place where the labor is cheap . It has happened . What I want to say to you , my fellow Americans , is nothing in this agreement makes that more likely . That has happened already . It may happen again . What we need to do is keep the jobs here by finding customers there . That is what this agreement does . It gives us a chance to create opportunity for people . I have friends in this audience , people who are ministers from my State , fathers and sons , people I have looked out all over this vast crowd and I see people I have known for years . They know I spent my whole life working to create jobs . I would never knowingly do anything that would take a job away from the American people . This agreement will make more jobs . Now , we can also leave it if it does not work in 6 months . But if we do not take it , we will lose it forever . We need to take it , because we have to do better . But I guess what I really want to say to you today , my fellow Americans , is that we can do all of this and still fail unless we meet the great crisis of the spirit that is gripping America today . When I leave you , Congressman Ford and I are going to a Baptist church near here to a town meeting he is having on health care and violence . I tell you , unless we do something about crime and violence and drugs that is ravaging the community , we will not be able to repair this country . If Martin Luther King , who said , Like Moses , I am on the mountaintop , and I can see the promised land , but I am not going to be able to get there with you , but we will get there if he were to reappear by my side today and give us a report card on the last 25 years , what would he say You did a good job , he would say , voting and electing people who formerly were not electable because of the color of their skin . You have more political power , and that is good . You did a good job , he would say , letting people who have the ability to do so live wherever they want to live , go wherever they want to go in this great country . You did a good job , he would say , elevating people of color into the ranks of the United States Armed Forces to the very top or into the very top of our Government . You did a very good job , he would say . He would say , you did a good job creating a black middle class of people who really are doing well , and the middle class is growing more among African Americans than among non African Americans . You did a good job you did a good job in opening opportunity . But he would say , I did not live and die to see the American family destroyed . I did not live and die to see 13 year old boys get automatic weapons and gun down 9 year olds just for the kick of it . I did not live and die to see young people destroy their own lives with drugs and then build fortunes destroying the lives of others . That is not what I came here to do . I fought for freedom , he would say , but not for the freedom of people to kill each other with reckless abandon , not for the freedom of children to have children and the fathers of the children walk away from them and abandon them as if they do not amount to anything . I fought for people to have the right to work but not to have whole communities and people abandoned . This is not what I lived and died for . My fellow Americans , he would say , I fought to stop white people from being so filled with hate that they would wreak violence on black people . I did not fight for the right of black people to murder other black people with reckless abandon . The other day the Mayor of Baltimore , a dear friend of mine , told me a story of visiting the family of a young man who had been killed 18 years old on Halloween . He always went out with little bitty , kids so they could trick or treat safely . And across the street from where they were walking on Halloween , a 14 year old boy gave a 13 year old boy a gun and dared him to shoot the 18 year old boy , and he shot him dead . And the Mayor had to visit the family . In Washington , Dwhere I live , your Nation s Capital , the symbol of freedom throughout the world , look how that freedom is being exercised . The other night a man came along the street and grabbed a 1 year old child and put the child in his car . The child may have been the child of the man . And two people were after him , and they chased him in the car , and they just kept shooting with reckless abandon , knowing that baby was in the car . And they shot the man dead , and a bullet went through his body into the baby s body , and blew the little bootie off the child s foot . The other day on the front page of our paper , the Nation s Capita , are we talking about world peace or world conflict No , big article on the front page of the Washington Post about an 11 year old child planning her funeral These are the hymns I want sung . This is the tress I want to wear . I know I am not going to live very long . That is not the freedom , the freedom to die before you are a teenager is not what Martin Luther King lived and died for . More than 37 , 000 people die from gunshot wounds in this country every year . Gunfire is the leading cause of death in young men . And now that we have all gotten so cool that everybody can get a semiautomatic weapon , a person shot now is 3 times more likely to die than 15 years ago , because they are likely to have three bullets in them . A hundred and sixty thousand children stay home from school every day because they are scared they will be hurt in their schools . The other day I was in California at a town meeting , and a handsome young man stood up and said , President , my brother and we do not belong to gangs . We do not have guns . We do not do drugs . We want to go to school . We want to he professionals . We want to work hard . We want to do well . We want to have families . And we changed our school because the school we were in was so dangerous . So when we stowed up to the new school to register , my brother and I were standing in line and somebody ran into the school and started shooting a gun . My brother was shot down standing right in front of me at the safer school . The freedom to do that kind of thing is not what Martin Luther King lived and died for , not what people gathered in this hallowed church for the night before he was assassinated in April of 1968 . If you had told anybody who was here in that church on that night that we would abuse our freedom in that way , they would have found it hard to believe . And I tell you , it is our moral duty to turn it around . And now I think finally we have a chance . Finally , I think , we have a chance . We have a pastor here from New Haven , Connecticut . I was in his church with Reverend Jackson when I was running for President on a snowy day in Connecticut to mourn the death of children who had been killed in that city . And afterward we walked down the street for more than a mile in the snow . Then , the American people were not ready . People would say , Oh , this is a terrible thing , but what can we do about it Now when we react that foreign visitors come to our shores and are killed at random in our fine State of Florida , when we see our children planning their funerals , when the American people are finally coming to grips with the accumulated weight of crime and violence and the breakdown of family and community and the increase in drugs and the decrease in jobs , I think finally we may be ready to do something about it . Anti there is something for each of us to do . There are changes we eau make from the outside in that is the job of the President the Congress and the Governors and the mayors and the social service agencies . And then there is some changes we are going to have to make from the inside out , or the others will not matter . That is what that magnificent song was about , is not it Sometimes there are no answers from the outside in sometimes all the answers have to come from the values and the stirrings and the voices that speak to us from within . So we are beginning . We are trying to pass a bill to make our people safer , to put another 100 , 000 police officers on the street , to provide boot camps instead of prisons for young people who can still be rescued , to provide more safety in our schools , to restrict the availability of these awful assault weapons , to pass the Brady hill and at least require people to have their criminal background checked before they get a gun , and to say , if you are not old enough to vote and you are not old enough to go to war , you ought not to own a handgun , and you ought not to use one unless you are on a target range . We want to pass a health care bill that will make drug treatment available for everyone . And we also have to do it , we have to have drug treatment and education available to everyone and especially those who are in prison who are coming out . We have a drug czar now in Lee Brown , who was the police chief of Atlanta , of Houston , of New York , who understands these things . And when the Congress comes back next year , we will be moving forward on that . We need this crime bill now . We ought to give it to the American people for Christmas . And we need to move forward on all these other fronts . But I say to you , my fellow Americans , we need some other things as well . I do not believe we can repair the basic fabric of society until people who are willing to work have work . Work organizes life . It gives structure and discipline to life . It gives meaning and self esteem to people who are parents . It gives a role model to children . The famous African American sociologist William Julius Wilson has written a stunning book called The Truly Disadvantaged in which he chronicles in breathtaking terms how the inner cities of our country have crumbled as work has disappeared . And we must Find a way , through public and private sources , to enhance the attractiveness of the American people who live there to get investment there . We cannot , I submit to you , repair the American community and restore the American family until we provide the structure , the values , the discipline , and the reward that work gives . I read a wonderful speech the other day given at Howard University in a lecture series funded by Bill and Camille Cosby , in which the speaker said , I grew up in Anacostia years ago . Even then it was all black , and it was a very poor neighborhood . But you know , when I was a child in Anacostia , a 100 percent African American neighborhood , a very , poor neighborhood , we had a crime rate that was lower than the average of the crime rate of our city . Why Because we had coherent families . We had coherent communities . The people who filled the church on Sunday lived in the same place they went to church The guy that owned the drugstore lived clown the street . The person that owned the grocery store lived in our community . We were whole . And I say to you , we have to make our people whole again . This church has stood for that . Why do you think you have 5 million members in this country Because people know you are filled with the spirit of God to do the right thing in this life by them . So I say to you , we have to make a partnership , all the Government agencies , all the business folks but where there are no families , where there is no order , where there is no hope , where we are reducing the size of our armed services because we have won the cold war , who will be there to give structure , discipline , and love to these children You must do that . And we must help you . Scripture say s , you are the salt of the Earth and the light of the world , that if your light shines before men they will give glow to the Father in heaven . That is what we must do . That is what we must do . How would we explain it to Martin Luther King if he showed up today and said , yes , we won the cold war . Yes , the biggest threat that all of us grew up under , communism and nuclear war , communism gone , nuclear war receding . Yes , we developed all these miraculous technologies . Yes , we all have got a VCR in our home it is interesting . Yes , we get 50 channels on the cable . Yes , without regard to race , if you work hard and play by the rules , you can get into a service academy or a good college , you will do just great . How would we explain to him all these kids getting killed and killing each other How would we justify the things that we permit that no other country in the world would permit How could we explain that we gave people the freedom to succeed , and we created conditions in which millions abuse that freedom to destroy the things that make life worth living and life itself . We cannot . And so I say to you today , my fellow Americans , you gave me this job , and we are making progress on the things you hired me to do . But unless we deal with the ravages of crime and drugs and violence and unless we recognize that it is due to the breakdown of the family , the community , and the disappearance of jobs , and unless we say some of this cannot be done by Government , because we have to reach deep inside to the values , the spirit , the soul , and the truth of human nature , none of the other things we seek to do will ever take us where we need to go . So in this pulpit , on this day , let me ask all of you in your heart to say We will honor the life and the work of Martin Luther King . We will honor the meaning of our church . We will , somehow , by God s grace , we will turn this around . We will give these children a future . We will take away their guns and give them books . We will take away their despair and give them hope . We will rebuild the families and the neighborhoods and the communities . We will not make all the work that has gone on here benefit just a few . We will do it together by the grace of God . Thank you .<speech_sep>My fellow Americans , today our Armed Forces joined our NATO allies in airstrikes against Serbian forces responsible for the brutality in Kosovo . We have acted with resolve for several reasons . We act to protect thousands of innocent people in Kosovo from a mounting military offensive . We act to prevent a wider war , to diffuse a powder keg at the heart of Europe that has exploded twice before in this century with catastrophic results . And we act to stand united with our allies for peace . By acting now , we are upholding our values , protecting our interests , and advancing the cause of peace . Tonight I want to speak to you about the tragedy in Kosovo and why it matters to America that we work with our allies to end it . First , let me explain what it is we are responding to . Kosovo is a province of Serbia , in the middle of southeastern Europe , about 160 miles east of Italy . That is less than the distance between Washington and New York and only about 70 miles north of Greece . Its people are mostly ethnic Albanian and mostly Muslim . In 1989 Serbia s leader , Slobodan Milosevic , the same leader who started the wars in Bosnia and Croatia and moved against Slovenia in the last decade , stripped Kosovo of the constitutional autonomy its people enjoyed , thus denying them their right to speak their language , run their schools , shape their daily lives . For years , Kosovars struggled peacefully to get their rights back . When President Milosevic sent his troops and police to crush them , the struggle grew violent . Last fall our diplomacy , backed by the threat of force from our NATO alliance , stopped the fighting for a while and rescued tens of thousands of people from freezing and starvation in the hills where they had fled to save their lives . And last month , with our allies and Russia , we proposed a peace agreement to end the fighting for good . The Kosovar leaders signed that agreement last week . Even though it does not give them all they want , even though their people were still being savaged , they saw that a just peace is better than a long and unwinnable war . The Serbian leaders , on the other hand , refused even to discuss key elements of the peace agreement . As the Kosovars were saying yes to peace , Serbia stationed 40 , 000 troops in and around Kosovo in preparation for a major offensive and in clear violation of the commitments they had made . Now they have started moving from village to village , shelling civilians and torching their houses . We have seen innocent people taken from their homes , forced to kneel in the dirt , and sprayed with bullets Kosovar men dragged from their families , fathers and sons together , lined up and shot in cold blood . This is not war in the traditional sense . It is an attack by tanks and artillery on a largely defenseless people whose leaders already have agreed to peace . Ending this tragedy is a moral imperative . It is also important to America s national interest . Take a look at this map . Kosovo is a small place , but it sits on a major fault line between Europe , Asia , and the Middle East , at the meeting place of Islam and both the Western and Orthodox branches of Christianity . To the south are our allies , Greece and Turkey to the north , our new democratic allies in central Europe . And all around Kosovo there are other small countries struggling with their own economic and political challenges , countries that could be overwhelmed by a large , new wave of refugees from Kosovo . All the ingredients for a major war are there ancient grievances , struggling democracies , and in the center of it all a dictator in Serbia who has done nothing since the cold war ended but start new wars and pour gasoline on the flames of ethnic and religious division . Sarajevo , the capital of neighboring Bosnia , is where World War I began . World War II and the Holocaust engulfed this region . In both wars , Europe was slow to recognize the dangers , and the United States waited even longer to enter the conflicts . Just imagine if leaders back then had acted wisely and early enough , how many lives could have been saved , how many Americans would not have had to die . We learned some of the same lessons in Bosnia just a few years ago . The world did not act early enough to stop that war , either . And let us not forget what happened innocent people herded into concentration camps , children gunned down by snipers on their way to school , soccer fields and parks turned into cemeteries , a quarter of a million people killed , not because of anything they have done but because of who they were . Two million Bosnians became refugees . This was genocide in the heart of Europe , not in 1945 but in 1995 not in some grainy newsreel from our parents and grandparents time but in our own time , testing our humanity and our resolve . At the time , many people believed nothing could be done to end the bloodshed in Bosnia . They said , Well , that is just the way those people in the Balkans are . But when we and our allies joined with courageous Bosnians to stand up to the aggressors , we helped to end the war . We learned that in the Balkans , inaction in the face of brutality simply invites more brutality , but firmness can stop armies and save lives . We must apply that lesson in Kosovo before what happened in Bosnia happens there , too . Over the last few months we have done everything we possibly could to solve this problem peacefully . Secretary Albright has worked tirelessly for a negotiated agreement . Milosevic has refused . On Sunday I sent Ambassador Dick Holbrooke to Serbia to make clear to him again , on behalf of the United States and our NATO allies , that he must honor his own commitments and stop his repression , or face military action . Again , he refused . Today we and our 18 NATO allies agreed to do what we said we would do , what we must do to restore the peace . Our mission is clear to demonstrate the seriousness of NATO s purpose so that the Serbian leaders understand the imperative of reversing course to deter an even bloodier offensive against innocent civilians in Kosovo and , if necessary , to seriously damage the Serbian military s capacity to harm the people of Kosovo . In short , if President Milosevic will not make peace , we will limit his ability to make war . Now , I want to be clear with you , there are risks in this military action , risks to our pilots and the people on the ground . Serbia s air defenses are strong . It could decide to intensify its assault on Kosovo or to seek to harm us or our allies elsewhere . If it does , we will deliver a forceful response . Hopefully , Milosevic will realize his present course is self destructive and unsustainable . If he decides to accept the peace agreement and demilitarize Kosovo , NATO has agreed to help to implement it with a peacekeeping force . If NATO is invited to do so , our troops should take part in that mission to keep the peace . But I do not intend to put our troops in Kosovo to fight a war . Do our interests in Kosovo justify the dangers to our Armed Forces I have thought long and hard about that question . I am convinced that the dangers of acting are far outweighed by the dangers of not acting dangers to defenseless people and to our national interests . If we and our allies were to allow this war to continue with no response , President Milosevic would read our hesitation as a license to kill . There would be many more massacres , tens of thousands more refugees , more victims crying out for revenge . Right now our firmness is the only hope the people of Kosovo have to be able to live in their own country without having to fear for their own lives . Remember We asked them to accept peace , and they did . We asked them to promise to lay down their arms , and they agreed . We pledged that we , the United States and the other 18 nations of NATwould stick by them if they did the right thing . We cannot let them down now . Imagine what would happen if we and our allies instead decided just to look the other way , as these people were massacred on NATO s doorstep . That would discredit NATthe cornerstone on which our security has rested for 50 years now . We must also remember that this is a conflict with no natural national boundaries . Let me ask you to look again at a map . The red dots are towns the Serbs have attacked . The arrows show the movement of refugees north , east , and south . Already , this movement is threatening the young democracy in Macedonia , which has its own Albanian minority and a Turkish minority . Already , Serbian forces have made forays into Albania from which Kosovars have drawn support . Albania has a Greek minority . Let a fire burn here in this area , and the flames will spread . Eventually , key allies could be drawn into a wider conflict , a war we would be forced to confront later , only at far greater risk and greater cost . I have a responsibility as President to deal with problems such as this before they do permanent harm to our national interests . America has a responsibility to stand with our allies when they are trying to save innocent lives and preserve peace , freedom , and stability in Europe . That is what we are doing in Kosovo . If we have learned anything from the century drawing to a close , it is that if America is going to be prosperous and secure , we need a Europe that is prosperous , secure , undivided , and free . We need a Europe that is coming together , not falling apart , a Europe that shares our values and shares the burdens of leadership . That is the foundation on which the security of our children will depend . That is why I have supported the political and economic unification of Europe . That is why we brought Poland , Hungary , and the Czech Republic into NATand redefined its missions , and reached out to Russia and Ukraine for new partnerships . Now , what are the challenges to that vision of a peaceful , secure , united , stable Europe the challenge of strengthening a partnership with a democratic Russia that , despite our disagreements , is a constructive partner in the work of building peace the challenge of resolving the tension between Greece and Turkey and building bridges with the Islamic world and finally , the challenge of ending instability in the Balkans so that these bitter ethnic problems in Europe are resolved by the force of argument , not the force of arms , so that future generations of Americans do not have to cross the Atlantic to fight another terrible war . It is this challenge that we and our allies are facing in Kosovo . That is why we have acted now because we care about saving innocent lives because we have an interest in avoiding an even crueler and costlier war and because our children need and deserve a peaceful , stable , free Europe . Our thoughts and prayers tonight must be with the men and women of our Armed Forces who are undertaking this mission for the sake of our values and our children s future . May God bless them , and may God bless America .<speech_sep>Thank you very much . To the Members of Congress who are here , members of the Cabinet and the administration , my fellow Americans In recent weeks I have begun a conversation with the American people about our fate and our duty to prepare our Nation not only to meet the new century but to live and lead in a world transformed to a degree seldom seen in all of our history . Much of this change is good , but it is not all good , and all of us are affected by it . Therefore , we must reach beyond our fears and our divisions to a new time of great and common purpose . Our challenge is twofold first , to restore the American dream of opportunity and the American value of responsibility and second , to bring our country together amid all our diversity into a stronger community , so that we can find common ground and move forward as one . More than ever these two endeavors are inseparable . I am absolutely convinced we cannot restore economic opportunity or solve our social problems unless we find a way to bring the American people together . To bring our people together we must openly and honestly deal with the issues that divide us . Today I want to discuss one of those issues , affirmative action . It is , in a way , ironic that this issue should be divisive today , because affirmative action began 25 years ago by a Republican President with bipartisan support . It began simply as a means to an end of enduring national purpose , equal opportunity for all Americans . So let us today trace the roots of affirmative action in our never ending search for equal opportunity . Let us determine what it is and what it is not . Let us see where it is worked and where it has not and ask ourselves what we need to do now . Along the way , let us remember always that finding common ground as we move toward the 21st century depends fundamentally on our shared commitment to equal opportunity for all Americans . It is a moral imperative , a constitutional mandate , and a legal necessity . There could be no better place for this discussion than the National Archives , for within these walls are America s bedrocks of our common ground , the Declaration of Independence , the Constitution , the Bill of Rights . No paper is as lasting as the words these documents contain , so we put them in these special cases to protect the parchment from the elements . No building is as solid as the principles these documents embody , but we sure tried to build one with these metal doors 11 inches thick to keep them safe , for these documents are America s only crown jewels . But the best place of all to hold these words and these principles is the one place in which they can never fade and never grow old , in the stronger chambers of our hearts . Beyond all else , our country is a set of convictions We hold these truths to be self evident , that all men are created equal , that they are endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights , that among these are life , liberty , and the pursuit of happiness . Our whole history can be seen first as an effort to preserve these rights and then as an effort to make them real in the lives of all our citizens . We know that from the beginning there was a great gap between the plain meaning of our creed and the meaner reality of our daily lives . Back then , only white male property owners could vote . Black slaves were not even counted as whole people , and Native Americans were regarded as little more than an obstacle to our great national progress . No wonder Thomas Jefferson , reflecting on slavery , said he trembled to think God is just . On the 200th anniversary of our great Constitution , Justice Thurgood Marshall , the grandson of a slave , said , The Government our Founders devised was defective from the start , requiring several amendments , a civil war , and momentous social transformation to attain the system of constitutional government and its respect for the individual freedoms and human rights we hold as fundamental today . Emancipation , women s suffrage , civil rights , voting rights , equal rights , the struggle for the rights of the disabled , all these and other struggles are milestones on America s often rocky but fundamentally righteous journey to close the gap between the ideals enshrined in these treasures here in the National Archives and the reality of our daily lives . I first came to this very spot where I am standing today 32 years ago this month . I was a 16 year old delegate to the American Legion Boys Nation . Now , that summer was a high water mark for our national journey . That was the summer that President Kennedy ordered Alabama National Guardsmen to enforce a court order to allow two young blacks to enter the University of Alabama . As he told our Nation , Every American ought to have the right to be treated as he would wish to be treated , as one would wish his children to be treated . Later that same summer , on the steps of the Lincoln Memorial , Martin Luther King told Americans of his dream that one day the sons of former slaves and the sons of former slaveowners would sit down together at the table of brotherhood , that one day his four little children would be judged not by the color of their skin but by the content of their character . His words captured the hearts and steeled the wills of millions of Americans . Some of them sang with him in the hot sun that day . Millions more like me listened and wept in the privacy of their homes . It is hard to believe where we were just three decades ago . When I came up here to Boys Nation and we had this mock congressional session , I was one of only three or four southerners who would even vote for the civil rights plank . That is largely because of my family . My grandfather had a grade school education and ran a grocery store across the street from the cemetery in Hope , Arkansas , where my parents and my grandparents are buried . Most of his customers were black , were poor , and were working people . As a child in that store , I saw that people of different races could treat each other with respect and dignity . But I also saw that the black neighborhood across the street was the only one in town where the streets were not paved . And when I returned to that neighborhood in the late sixties to see a woman who had cared for me as a toddler , the streets still were not paved . A lot of you know that I am an ardent movie goer . As a child , I never went to a movie where I could sit next to a black American . They were always sitting upstairs . In the 1960 s , believe it or not , there were still a few courthouse squares in my State where the restrooms were marked white and colored . I graduated from a segregated high school 7 years after President Eisenhower integrated Little Rock Central High School . And when President Kennedy barely carried my home State in 1960 , the poll tax system was still alive and well there . Even though my grandparents were in a minority , being poor Southern whites who were pro civil rights , I think most other people knew better than to think the way they did . And those who were smart enough to act differently discovered a lesson that we ought to remember today Discrimination is not just morally wrong , it hurts everybody . In 1960 , Atlanta , Georgia , in reaction to all the things that were going on all across the South , adopted the motto , the city too busy to hate . And however imperfectly over the years , they tried to live by it . I am convinced that Atlanta s success it now is home to more foreign corporations than any other American city , and one year from today it will begin to host the Olympics that that success all began when people got too busy to hate . The lesson we learned was a hard one . When we allow people to pit us against one another or spend energy denying opportunity based on our differences , everyone is held back . But when we give all Americans a chance to develop and use their talents , to be full partners in our common enterprise , then everybody is pushed forward . My experiences with discrimination are rooted in the South and in the legacy slavery left . I also lived with a working mother and a working grandmother when women s work was far rarer and far more circumscribed than it is today . But we all know there are millions of other stories , those of Hispanics , Asian Americans , Native Americans , people with disabilities , others against whom fingers have been pointed . Many of you have your own stories , and that is why you are here today , people who were denied the right to develop and to use their full human potential . And their progress , too , is a part of our journey to make the reality of America consistent with the principles just behind me here . Thirty years ago in this city , you did not see many people of color or women making their way to work in the morning in business clothes or serving in substantial numbers in powerful positions in Congress or at the White House or making executive decisions every day in businesses . In fact , even the employment want ads were divided , men on one side and women on the other . It was extraordinary then to see women or people of color as television news anchors or , believe it or not , even in college sports . There were far fewer women and minorities as job supervisors or firefighters or police officers or doctors or lawyers or college professors or in many other jobs that offer stability and honor and integrity to family life . A lot has changed , and it did not happen as some sort of random evolutionary drift . It took hard work and sacrifices and countless acts of courage and conscience by millions of Americans . It took the political courage and statesmanship of Democrats and Republicans alike , the vigilance and compassion of courts and advocates in and out of Government committed to the Constitution and to equal protection and to equal opportunity . It took the leadership of people in business who knew that in the end we would all be better . It took the leadership of people in labor unions who knew that working people had to be reconciled . Some people , like Congressman Lewis there , put their lives on the line . Other people lost their lives . And millions of Americans changed their own lives and put hate behind them . As a result , today all our lives are better . Women have become a major force in business and political life and far more able to contribute to their families incomes . A true and growing black middle class has emerged . Higher education has literally been revolutionized , with women and racial and ethnic minorities attending once overwhelmingly white and sometimes all male schools . In communities across our Nation , police departments now better reflect the makeup of those whom they protect . A generation of professionals now serve as role models for young women and minority youth . Hispanics and newer immigrant populations are succeeding in making America stronger . For an example of where the best of our future lies , just think about our space program and the stunning hookup with the Russian space station this month . Let us remember that that program , the world s finest , began with heroes like Alan Shepard and Senator John Glenn , but today it is had American heroes like Sally Ride , Ellen Ochoa , Leroy Chiao , Guy Bluford , and other outstanding , completely qualified women and minorities . How did this happen Fundamentally , because we opened our hearts and minds and changed our ways . But not without pressure , the pressure of court decisions , legislation , executive action , and the power of examples in the public and private sector . Along the way we learned that laws alone do not change society , that old habits and thinking patterns are deeply ingrained and die hard , that more is required to really open the doors of opportunity . Our search to find ways to move more quickly to equal opportunity led to the development of what we now call affirmative action . The purpose of affirmative action is to give our Nation a way to finally address the systemic exclusion of individuals of talent on the basis of their gender or race from opportunities to develop , perform , achieve , and contribute . Affirmative action is an effort to develop a systematic approach to open the doors of education , employment , and business development opportunities to qualified individuals who happen to be members of groups that have experienced longstanding and persistent discrimination . It is a policy that grew out of many years of trying to navigate between two unacceptable pasts . One was to say simply that we declared discrimination illegal and that is enough . We saw that that way still relegated blacks with college degrees to jobs as railroad porters and kept women with degrees under a glass ceiling with a lower paycheck . The other path was simply to try to impose change by leveling draconian penalties on employers who did not meet certain imposed , ultimately arbitrary , and sometimes unachievable quotas . That , too , was rejected out of a sense of fairness . So a middle ground was developed that would change an inequitable status quo gradually but firmly , by building the pool of qualified applicants for college , for contracts , for jobs , and giving more people the chance to learn , work , and earn . When affirmative action is done right , it is flexible , it is fair , and it works . I know some people are honestly concerned about the times affirmative action does not work , when it is done in the wrong way . And I know there are times when some employers do not use it in the right way . They may cut corners and treat a flexible goal as a quota . They may give opportunities to people who are unqualified instead of those who deserve it . They may , in so doing , allow a different kind of discrimination . When this happens , it is also wrong . But it is not affirmative action , and it is not legal . So when our administration finds cases of that sort , we will enforce the law aggressively . The Justice Department files hundreds of cases every year attacking discrimination in employment , including suits on behalf of white males . Most of these suits , however , affect women and minorities for a simple reason , because the vast majority of discrimination in America is still discrimination against them . But the law does require fairness for everyone , and we are determined to see that that is exactly what the law delivers . Let me be clear about what affirmative action must not mean and what I will not allow it to be . It does not mean and I do not favor the unjustified preference of the unqualified over the qualified of any race or gender . It does not mean and I do not favor numerical quotas . It does not mean and I do not favor rejection or selection of any employee or student solely on the basis of race or gender without regard to merit . Like many business executives and public servants , I owe it to you to say that my views on this subject are , more than anything else , the product of my personal experience . I have had experience with affirmative action , nearly 20 years of it now , and I know it works . When I was attorney general of my home State , I hired a record number of women and African American lawyers , every one clearly qualified and exceptionally hardworking . As Governor , I appointed more women to my Cabinet and State boards than any other Governor in the State s history , and more African Americans than all the Governors in the State s history combined . And no one ever questioned their qualifications or performance , and our State was better and stronger because of their service . As President , I am proud to have the most diverse administration in history in my Cabinet , my agencies , and my staff . And I must say , I have been surprised at the criticism I have received from some quarters in my determination to achieve this . In the last 2 1 2 years , the most outstanding example of affirmative action in the United States , the Pentagon , has opened 260 , 000 positions for women who serve in our Armed Forces . I have appointed more women and minorities to the Federal bench than any other President , more than the last two combined . And yet , far more of our judicial appointments have received the highest rating from the American Bar Association than any other administration since those ratings have been given . In our administration many Government agencies are doing more business with qualified firms run by minorities and women . The Small Business Administration has reduced its budget by 40 percent , doubled its loan outputs , dramatically increased the number of loans to women and minority small business people , without reducing the number of loans to white businessowners who happen to be male and without changing the loan standards for a single , solitary application . Quality and diversity can go hand in hand , and they must . Let me say that affirmative action has also done more than just open the doors of opportunity to individual Americans . Most economists who study it agree that affirmative action has also been an important part of closing gaps in economic opportunity in our society , thereby strengthening the entire economy . A group of distinguished business leaders told me just a couple of days ago that their companies are stronger and their profits are larger because of the diversity and the excellence of their work forces achieved through intelligent and fair affirmative action programs . And they said , We have gone far beyond anything the Government might require us to do because managing diversity and individual opportunity and being fair to everybody is the key to our future economic success in the global marketplace . Now , there are those who say , my fellow Americans , that even good affirmative action programs are no longer needed , that it should be enough to resort to the courts or the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission in cases of actual , provable , individual discrimination because there is no longer any systematic discrimination in our society . In deciding how to answer that , let us consider the facts . The unemployment rate for African Americans remains about twice that of whites . The Hispanic rate is still much higher . Women have narrowed the earnings gap , but still make only 72 percent as much as men do for comparable jobs . The average income for an Hispanic woman with a college degree is still less than the average income of a white man with a high school diploma . According to the recently completed glass ceiling report , sponsored by Republican Members of Congress , in the Nation s largest companies only six tenths of one percent of senior management positions are held by African Americans , four tenths of a percent by Hispanic Americans , three tenths of a percent by Asian Americans women hold between 3 and 5 percent of these positions . White males make up 43 percent of our work force but hold 95 percent of these jobs . Just last week , the Chicago Federal Reserve Bank reported that black home loan applicants are more than twice as likely to be denied credit as whites with the same qualifications and that Hispanic applicants are more than 1 1 2 times as likely to be denied loans as whites with the same qualifications . Last year alone the Federal Government received more than 90 , 000 complaints of employment discrimination based on race , ethnicity , or gender less than 3 percent were for reverse discrimination . Evidence abounds in other ways of the persistence of the kind of bigotry that can affect the way we think , even if we are not conscious of it , in hiring and promotion and business and educational decisions . Crimes and violence based on hate against Asians , Hispanics , African Americans , and other minorities are still with us . And I am sorry to say that the worst and most recent evidence of this involves a recent report of Federal law enforcement officials in Tennessee attending an event literally overflowing with racism , a sickening reminder of just how pervasive these kinds of attitudes still are . By the way , I want to tell you that I am committed to finding the truth about what happened there and to taking appropriate action . And I want to say that if anybody who works in Federal law enforcement thinks that that kind of behavior is acceptable , they ought to think about working someplace else . Now , let us get to the other side of the argument . If affirmative action has worked and if there is evidence that discrimination still exists on a wide scale in ways that are conscious and unconscious , then why should we get rid of it as many people are urging Some question the effectiveness or the fairness of particular affirmative action programs . I say to all of you , those are fair questions , and they prompted the review of our affirmative action programs about which I will talk in a few moments . Some question the fundamental purpose of the effort . There are people who honestly believe that affirmative action always amounts to group preferences over individual merit , that affirmative action always leads to reverse discrimination , that ultimately , therefore , it demeans those who benefit from it and discriminates against those who are not helped by it . I just have to tell you that all of you have to decide how you feel about that , and all of our fellow country men and women have to decide as well . But I believe if there are no quotas , if we give no opportunities to unqualified people , if we have no reverse discrimination , and if , when the problem ends , the program ends , that criticism is wrong . That is what I believe . But we should have this debate , and everyone should ask the question . Now let us deal with what I really think is behind so much of this debate today . There are a lot of people who oppose affirmative action today who supported it for a very long time . I believe they are responding to the sea change in the experiences that most Americans have in the world in which we live . If you say now you are against affirmative action because the Government is using its power or the private sector is using its power to help minorities at the expense of the majority , that gives you a way of explaining away the economic distress that a majority of Americans honestly feel . It gives you a way of turning their resentment against the minorities or against a particular Government program , instead of having an honest debate about how we all got into the fix we are in and what we are all going to do together to get out of it . That explanation , the affirmative action explanation , for the fix we are in is just wrong . It is just wrong . Affirmative action did not cause the great economic problems of the American middle class . And because most minorities or women are either members of that middle class or people who are poor who are struggling to get into it , we must also admit that affirmative action alone will not solve the problems of minorities and women who seek to be a part of the American dream . To do that , we have to have an economic strategy that reverses the decline in wages and the growth of poverty among working people . Without that , women , minorities , and white males will all be in trouble in the future . But it is wrong to use the anxieties of the middle class to divert the American people from the real causes of their economic distress , the sweeping historic changes taking all the globe in its path and the specific policies or lack of them in our own country which have aggravated those challenges . It is simply wrong to play politics with the issue of affirmative action and divide our country at a time when , if we are really going to change things , we have to be united . I must say , I think it is ironic that some of those not all but some of those who call for an end to affirmative action also advocate policies which will make the real economic problems of the anxious middle class even worse . They talk about opportunity and being for equal opportunity for everyone , and then they reduce investment in equal opportunity on an evenhanded basis . For example , if the real goal is economic opportunity for all Americans , why in the world would we reduce our investment in education from Head Start to affordable college loans Why do not we make college loans available to every American instead If the real goal is empowering all middle class Americans and empowering poor people to work their way into the middle class without regard to race or gender , why in the world would the people who advocate that turn around and raise taxes on our poorest working families , or reduce the money available for education and training when they lose their jobs or they are living on poverty wages , or increase the cost of housing for lower income working people with children Why would we do that If we are going to empower America , we have to do more than talk about it . We have to do it . And we surely have learned that we cannot empower all Americans by a simple strategy of taking opportunity away from some Americans . So to those who use this as a political strategy to divide us , we must say no . We must say no . But to those who raise legitimate questions about the way affirmative action works or who raise the larger question about the genuine problems and anxieties of all the American people and their sense of being left behind and treated unfairly , we must say yes , you are entitled to answers to your questions . We must say yes to that . Now , that is why I ordered this review of all of our affirmative action programs , a review designed to look at the facts , not the politics , of affirmative action . This review concluded that affirmative action remains a useful tool for widening economic and educational opportunity . The model used by the military , the Army in particular and I am delighted to have the Commanding General of the Army here today because he set such a fine example has been especially successful because it emphasizes education and training , ensuring that it has a wide pool of qualified candidates for every level of promotion . That approach has given us the most racially diverse and best qualified military in our history . There are more opportunities for women and minorities there than ever before . And now there are over 50 generals and admirals who are Hispanic , Asian , or African Americans . We found that the Education Department targeted on had programs targeted on under represented minorities that do a great deal of good with the tiniest of investments . We found that these programs comprised 40 cents of every 1 , 000 in the Education Department s budget . Now , college presidents will tell you that the education their schools offer actually benefit from diversity , colleges where young people get the education and make the personal and professional contacts that will shape their lives . If their colleges look like the world they are going to live and work in and they learn from all different kinds of people things that they cannot learn in books , our systems of higher education are stronger . Still , I believe every child needs the chance to go to college every child . That means every child has to have a chance to get affordable and repayable college loans , Pell grants for poor kids , and a chance to do things like join AmeriCorps and work their way through school . Every child is entitled to that . That is not an argument against affirmative action , it is an argument for more opportunity for more Americans until everyone is reached . As I said a moment ago , the review found that the Small Business Administration last year increased loans to minorities by over two thirds , loans to women by over 80 percent , did not decrease loans to white men , and not a single loan went to an unqualified person . People who never had a chance before to be part of the American system of free enterprise now have it . No one was hurt in the process . That made America stronger . This review also found that the Executive order on employment practices of large Federal contractors also has helped to bring more fairness and inclusion into the work force . Since President Nixon was here in my job , America has used goals and timetables to preserve opportunity and to prevent discrimination , to urge businesses to set higher expectations for themselves and to realize those expectations . But we did not and we will not use rigid quotas to mandate outcomes . We also looked at the way we award procurement contracts under the programs known as set asides . There is no question that these programs have helped to build up firms owned by minorities and women , who historically had been excluded from the old boy networks in these areas . It has helped a new generation of entrepreneurs to flourish , opening new paths to self reliance and an economic growth in which all of us ultimately share . Because of the set asides , businesses ready to compete have had a chance to compete , a chance they would not have otherwise had . But as with any Government program , set asides can be misapplied , misused , even intentionally abused . There are critics who exploit that fact as an excuse to abolish all these programs , regardless of their effects . I believe they are wrong , but I also believe , based on our factual review , we clearly need some reform . So first , we should crack down on those who take advantage of everyone else through fraud and abuse . We must crack down on fronts and pass throughs , people who pretend to be eligible for these programs and are not . That is wrong . We also , in offering new businesses a leg up , must make sure that the set asides go to businesses that need them most . We must really look and make sure that our standard for eligibility is fair and defensible . We have to tighten the requirement to move businesses out of programs once they have had a fair opportunity to compete . The graduation requirement must mean something It must mean graduation . There should be no permanent set aside for any company . Second , we must and we will comply with the Supreme Court s Adarand decision of last month . Now , in particular , that means focusing set aside programs on particular regions and business sectors where the problems of discrimination or exclusion are provable and are clearly requiring affirmative action . I have directed the Attorney General and the agencies to move forward with compliance with Adarand expeditiously . But I also want to emphasize that the Adarand decision did not dismantle affirmative action and did not dismantle set asides . In fact , while setting stricter standards to mandate reform of affirmative action , it actually reaffirmed the need for affirmative action and reaffirmed the continuing existence of systematic discrimination in the United States . What the Supreme Court ordered the Federal Government to do was to meet the same more rigorous standard for affirmative action programs that State and local governments were ordered to meet several years ago . And the best set aside programs under that standard have been challenged and have survived . Third , beyond discrimination we need to do more to help disadvantaged people and distressed communities , no matter what their race or gender . There are places in our country where the free enterprise system simply does not reach it simply is not working to provide jobs and opportunity . Disproportionately , these areas in urban and rural America are highly populated by racial minorities , but not entirely . To make this initiative work , I believe the Government must become a better partner for people in places in urban and rural America that are caught in a cycle of poverty . And I believe we have to find ways to get the private sector to assume their rightful role as a driver of economic growth . It has always amazed me that we have given incentives to our business people to help to develop poor economies in other parts of the world , our neighbors in the Caribbean , our neighbors in other parts of the world I have supported this when not subject to their own abuses but we ignore the biggest source of economic growth available to the American economy , the poor economies isolated within the United States of America . There are those who say , Well , even if we made the jobs available , people would not work . They have not tried . Most of the people in disadvantaged communities work today , and most of them who do not work have a very strong desire to do so . In central Harlem , 14 people apply for every single minimum wage job opening . Think how many more would apply if there were good jobs with a good future . Our job has to connect disadvantaged people and disadvantaged communities to economic opportunity so that everybody who wants to work can do so . We have been working at this through our empowerment zones and community develop banks , through the initiatives of Secretary Cisneros of the Housing and Urban Development Department and many other things that we have tried to do to put capital where it is needed . And now I have asked Vice President Gore to develop a proposal to use our contracting to support businesses that locate themselves in these distressed areas or hire a large percentage of their workers from these areas , not to supplement what we are doing in affirmative action not to substitute for it but to supplement it , to go beyond it , to do something that will help to deal with the economic crisis of America . We want to make our procurement system more responsive to people in these areas who need help . My fellow Americans , affirmative action has to be made consistent with our highest ideals of personal responsibility and merit and our urgent need to find common ground and to prepare all Americans to compete in the global economy of the next century . Today I am directing all our agencies to comply with the Supreme Court s Adarand decision , and also to apply the four standards of fairness to all our affirmative action programs that I have already articulated No quotas in theory or practice no illegal discrimination of any kind , including reverse discrimination no preference for people who are not qualified for any job or other opportunity and as soon as a program has succeeded , it must be retired . Any program that does not meet these four principles must be eliminated or reformed to meet them . But let me be clear Affirmative action has been good for America . Affirmative action has not always been perfect , and affirmative action should not go on forever . It should be changed now to take care of those things that are wrong , and it should be retired when its job is done . I am resolved that that day will come . But the evidence suggests , indeed , screams that that day has not come . The job of ending discrimination in this country is not over . That should not be surprising . We had slavery for centuries before the passage of the 13th , 14th , and 15th amendments . We waited another 100 years for the civil rights legislation . Women have had the vote less than 100 years . We have always had difficulty with these things , as most societies do . But we are making more progress than many people . Based on the evidence , the job is not done . So here is what I think we should do . We should reaffirm the principle of affirmative action and fix the practices . We should have a simple slogan Mend it , but do not end it . Let me ask all Americans , whether they agree or disagree with what I have said today , to see this issue in the larger context of our times . President Lincoln said , We cannot escape our history . We cannot escape our future , either . And that future must be one in which every American has the chance to live up to his or her God given capacities . The new technology , the instant communications , the explosion of global commerce have created enormous opportunities and enormous anxieties for Americans . In the last 2 1 2 years , we have seen 7 million new jobs , more millionaires and new businesses than ever before , high corporate profits , and a booming stock market . Yet , most Americans are working harder for the same or lower pay , and they feel more insecurity about their jobs , their retirement , their health care , and their children s education . Too many of our children are clearly exposed to poverty and welfare , violence and drugs . These are the great challenges for our whole country on the homefront at the dawn of the 21st century . We have got to find the wisdom and the will to create family wage jobs for all the people who want to work , to open the door of college to all Americans , to strengthen families and reduce the awful problems to which our children are exposed , to move poor Americans from welfare to work . This is the work of our administration , to give people the tools they need to make the most of their own lives , to give families and communities the tools they need to solve their own problems . But let us not forget affirmative action did not cause these problems . It will not solve them . And getting rid of affirmative action certainly will not solve them . If properly done , affirmative action can help us come together , go forward , and grow together . It is in our moral , legal , and practical interest to see that every person can make the most of his own life . In the fight for the future , we need all hands on deck , and some of those hands still need a helping hand . In our national community we are all different we are all the same . We want liberty and freedom . We want the embrace of family and community . We want to make the most of our own lives , and we are determined to give our children a better one . Today there are voices of division who would say forget all that . Do not you dare . Remember we are still closing the gap between our Founders ideals and our reality . But every step along the way has made us richer , stronger , and better . And the best is yet to come . Thank you very much , and God bless you .<speech_sep>My fellow citizens , at this last Presidential Inauguration of the 20th century , let us lift our eyes toward the challenges that await us in the next century . It is our great good fortune that time and chance have put us not only at the edge of a new century , in a new millennium , but on the edge of a bright new prospect in human affairs , a moment that will define our course and our character for decades to come . We must keep our old democracy forever young . Guided by the ancient vision of a promised land , let us set our sights upon a land of new promise . The promise of America was born in the 18th century out of the bold conviction that we are all created equal . It was extended and preserved in the 19th century , when our Nation spread across the continent , saved the Union , and abolished the awful scourge of slavery . Then , in turmoil and triumph , that promise exploded onto the world stage to make this the American century . And what a century it has been . America became the world s mightiest industrial power , saved the world from tyranny in two World Wars and a long Cold War , and time and again reached out across the globe to millions who , like us , longed for the blessings of liberty . Along the way , Americans produced a great middle class and security in old age , built unrivaled centers of learning and opened public schools to all , split the atom and explored the heavens , invented the computer and the microchip , and deepened the well spring of justice by making a revolution in civil rights for African Americans and all minorities and extending the circle of citizenship , opportunity , and dignity to women . Now , for the third time , a new century is upon us and another time to choose . We began the 19th century with a choice to spread our Nation from coast to coast . We began the 20th century with a choice to harness the industrial revolution to our values of free enterprise , conservation , and human decency . Those choices made all the difference . At the dawn of the 21st century , a free people must now choose to shape the forces of the information age and the global society , to unleash the limitless potential of all our people , and yes , to form a more perfect Union . When last we gathered , our march to this new future seemed less certain than it does today . We vowed then to set a clear course to renew our Nation . In these 4 years , we have been touched by tragedy , exhilarated by challenge , strengthened by achievement . America stands alone as the world s indispensable nation . Once again , our economy is the strongest on Earth . Once again , we are building stronger families , thriving communities , better educational opportunities , a cleaner environment . Problems that once seemed destined to deepen , now bend to our efforts . Our streets are safer , and record numbers of our fellow citizens have moved from welfare to work . And once again , we have resolved for our time a great debate over the role of Government . Today we can declare Government is not the problem , and Government is not the solution . We the American people we are the solution . Our Founders understood that well and gave us a democracy strong enough to endure for centuries , flexible enough to face our common challenges and advance our common dreams in each new day . As times change , so Government must change . We need a new Government for a new century , humble enough not to try to solve all our problems for us but strong enough to give us the tools to solve our problems for ourselves , a government that is smaller , lives within its means , and does more with less . Yet where it can stand up for our values and interests around the world , and where it can give Americans the power to make a real difference in their everyday lives , Government should do more , not less . The preeminent mission of our new Government is to give all Americans an opportunity , not a guarantee but a real opportunity , to build better lives . Beyond that , my fellow citizens , the future is up to us . Our Founders taught us that the preservation of our liberty and our Union depends upon responsible citizenship . And we need a new sense of responsibility for a new century . There is work to do , work that Government alone cannot do teaching children to read , hiring people off welfare rolls , coming out from behind locked doors and shuttered windows to help reclaim our streets from drugs and gangs and crime , taking time out of our own lives to serve others . Each and every one of us , in our own way , must assume personal responsibility not only for ourselves and our families but for our neighbors and our Nation . Our greatest responsibility is to embrace a new spirit of community for a new century . For any one of us to succeed , we must succeed as one America . The challenge of our past remains the challenge of our future Will we be one Nation , one people , with one common destiny , or not Will we all come together , or come apart The divide of race has been America s constant curse . And each new wave of immigrants gives new targets to old prejudices . Prejudice and contempt cloaked in the pretense of religious or political conviction are no different . These forces have nearly destroyed our Nation in the past . They plague us still . They fuel the fanaticism of terror . And they torment the lives of millions in fractured nations all around the world . These obsessions cripple both those who hate and of course those who are hated , robbing both of what they might become . We cannot , we will not , succumb to the dark impulses that lurk in the far regions of the soul everywhere . We shall overcome them . And we shall replace them with the generous spirit of a people who feel at home with one another . Our rich texture of racial , religious , and political diversity will be a godsend in the 21st century . Great rewards will come to those who can live together , learn together , work together , forge new ties that bind together . As this new era approaches , we can already see its broad outlines . Ten years ago , the Internet was the mystical province of physicists today , it is a commonplace encyclopedia for millions of schoolchildren . Scientists now are decoding the blueprint of human life . Cures for our most feared illnesses seem close at hand . The world is no longer divided into two hostile camps . Instead , now we are building bonds with nations that once were our adversaries . Growing connections of commerce and culture give us a chance to lift the fortunes and spirits of people the world over . And for the very first time in all of history , more people on this planet live under democracy than dictatorship . My fellow Americans , as we look back at this remarkable century , we may ask , can we hope not just to follow but even to surpass the achievements of the 20th century in America and to avoid the awful bloodshed that stained its legacy To that question , every American here and every American in our land today must answer a resounding , Yes This is the heart of our task . With a new vision of Government , a new sense of responsibility , a new spirit of community , we will sustain America s journey . The promise we sought in a new land , we will find again in a land of new promise . In this new land , education will be every citizen s most prized possession . Our schools will have the highest standards in the world , igniting the spark of possibility in the eyes of every girl and every boy . And the doors of higher education will be open to all . The knowledge and power of the information age will be within reach not just of the few but of every classroom , every library , every child . Parents and children will have time not only to work but to read and play together . And the plans they make at their kitchen table will be those of a better home , a better job , the certain chance to go to college . Our streets will echo again with the laughter of our children , because no one will try to shoot them or sell them drugs anymore . Everyone who can work , will work , with today s permanent under class part of tomorrow s growing middle class . New miracles of medicine at last will reach not only those who can claim care now but the children and hard working families too long denied . We will stand mighty for peace and freedom and maintain a strong defense against terror and destruction . Our children will sleep free from the threat of nuclear , chemical , or biological weapons . Ports and airports , farms and factories will thrive with trade and innovation and ideas . And the world s greatest democracy will lead a whole world of democracies . Our land of new promise will be a nation that meets its obligations , a nation that balances its budget but never loses the balance of its values , a nation where our grandparents have secure retirement and health care and their grandchildren know we have made the reforms necessary to sustain those benefits for their time , a nation that fortifies the world s most productive economy even as it protects the great natural bounty of our water , air , and majestic land . And in this land of new promise , we will have reformed our politics so that the voice of the people will always speak louder than the din of narrow interests , regaining the participation and deserving the trust of all Americans . Fellow citizens , let us build that America , a nation ever moving forward toward realizing the full potential of all its citizens . Prosperity and power , yes , they are important , and we must maintain them . But let us never forget , the greatest progress we have made and the greatest progress we have yet to make , is in the human heart . In the end , all the world s wealth and a thousand armies are no match for the strength and decency of the human spirit . Thirty four years ago , the man whose life we celebrate today spoke to us down there , at the other end of this Mall , in words that moved the conscience of a nation . Like a prophet of old , he told of his dream that one day America would rise up and treat all its citizens as equals before the law and in the heart . Martin Luther King s dream was the American dream . His quest is our quest the ceaseless striving to live out our true creed . Our history has been built on such dreams and labors . And by our dreams and labors , we will redeem the promise of America in the 21st century . To that effort I pledge all my strength and every power of my office . I ask the Members of Congress here to join in that pledge . The American people returned to office a President of one party and a Congress of another . Surely they did not do this to advance the politics of petty bickering and extreme partisanship they plainly deplore . No , they call on us instead to be repairers of the breach and to move on with America s mission . America demands and deserves big things from us , and nothing big ever came from being small . Let us remember the timeless wisdom of Cardinal Bernardin , when facing the end of his own life . He said , It is wrong to waste the precious gift of time on acrimony and division . Fellow citizens , we must not waste the precious gift of this time . For all of us are on that same journey of our lives , and our journey , too , will come to an end . But the journey of our America must go on . And so , my fellow Americans , we must be strong , for there is much to dare . The demands of our time are great , and they are different . Let us meet them with faith and courage , with patience and a grateful , happy heart . Let us shape the hope of this day into the noblest chapter in our history . Yes , let us build our bridge , a bridge wide enough and strong enough for every American to cross over to a blessed land of new promise . May those generations whose faces we cannot yet see , whose names we may never know , say of us here that we led our beloved land into a new century with the American dream alive for all her children , with the American promise of a more perfect Union a reality for all her people , with America s bright flame of freedom spreading throughout all the world . From the height of this place and the summit of this century , let us go forth . May God strengthen our hands for the good work ahead , and always , always bless our America .<speech_sep>Thank you very much . First , let me thank all of you who are here . Many of us have been working together now for 20 years on a lot of these issues , and this is a very happy day for us . I thank the First Lady for all she has done on this issue , for as long as I have known her . I thank the Vice President and Gore for their family conference and the light it has shed on the announcement we are here to emphasize today . Thank you , Secretary Riley , for the community learning centers , and I am very proud of what we have done there . Thank you , Bill White . I will talk more about your contribution in a moment , but it is truly remarkable . And I thank Rand and Debra Bass for giving us a living , breathing example of the best of America parents who are working hard to do their jobs , but also determined to do their most important job very well with their children . I thank Senator Feinstein , Senator Dodd , and Senator Boxer for being here . Tomorrow , in the State of the Union Address , I will spell out what we seek to do on behalf of our children to prepare them for the 21st century . But I want to talk a little bit about education today and about this announcement in that context . Education must be our Nation s highest priority . Last year , in the State of the Union Address , I set out a 10 point plan to move us forward and urged the American people to make sure that politics stops at the schoolhouse door . Well , we have made a lot of progress on that 10 point plan a remarkable a remarkable array of initiatives to open the doors of college to every American who is willing to work for it strong progress toward high national standards in the basics , the America Reads challenge to teach every 8 year old to read continued progress in the Vice President s program to hook up all of our classrooms and libraries to the Internet by the year 2000 . This has been the most important year in a generation for education reform . Tomorrow I will set out the next steps on our continuing road . First , I will propose the first ever national effort to reduce class size in the early grades . Hillary and I worked very hard 15 years ago now to have very strict class sizes at home in the early grades , and it was quite controversial and I think enormously beneficial when we did it . Our balanced budget will help to hire 100 , 000 teachers who must pass State competency tests but who will be able to reduce class size in the first , second , and third grades to an average of 18 nationwide . Second , since there are more students and there will be more teachers , there must be more classrooms . So I will propose a school construction tax cut to help communities modernize and build new schools . Third , I will promote a national effort to help schools that follow the lead of the Chicago system in ending social promotion but helping students with summer school and other programs to give them the tools they need to get ahead . All these steps will help our children get the future they deserve . And that is why what we are announcing here is so important as well . Every child needs someplace to go after school . With after school programs , we can not only keep our kids healthy and happy and safe , we can help to teach them to say no to drugs , alcohol , and crime , yes to reading , sports , and computers . My balanced budget plan includes a national initiative to spark private sector and local community efforts to provide after school care , as the Secretary of Education said , to half a million more children . Now , let me say , in addition to all the positive benefits , I think it is important to point out that the hours between 3 and 7 at night are the most vulnerable hours for young people to get in trouble , for juvenile crime . There is this sort of assumption that everybody that gets in trouble when they are young has just already been abandoned . That is not true . Most of the kids that get in trouble get in trouble after school closes and before their parents get home from work . So in the adolescent years , in the later years , it is profoundly important to try to give kids something to say yes to and something positive to do . But we cannot do it alone . As I said , our plan involves a public private partnership . So it has fallen to me to announce that our distinguished guest from the Mott Foundation of Flint , Michigan , has pledged up to 55 million to help ensure that after school programs supported by Federal funds are of the highest quality . That is an astonishing gift . Thank you , Bill White . Thank you . We are determined to help Americans succeed in the workplace , to raise well educated , healthy kids , and to help Americans succeed at the toughest job of all , that of being a parent . And the Mott Foundation has gone a long way toward helping us . I thank them . Now , I have to go back to work on my State of the Union speech . And I worked on it until pretty late last night . But I want to say one thing to the American people . I want you to listen to me . I am going to say this again . I did not have sexual relations with that woman , Miss Lewinsky . I never told anybody to lie , not a single time never . These allegations are false . And I need to go back to work for the American people . Thank you .<speech_sep>Thank you very much . Governor Keating and Keating , Reverend Graham , to the families of those who have been lost and wounded , to the people of Oklahoma City who have endured so much , and the people of this wonderful State , to all of you who are here as our fellow Americans . I am honored to be here today to represent the American people . But I have to tell you that Hillary and I also come as parents , as husband and wife , as people who were your neighbors for some of the best years of our lives . Today our Nation joins with you in grief . We mourn with you . We share your hope against hope that some may still survive . We thank all those who have worked so heroically to save lives and to solve this crime , those here in Oklahoma and those who are all across this great land and many who left their own lives to come here to work hand in hand with you . We pledge to do all we can to help you heal the injured , to rebuild this city , and to bring to justice those who did this evil . This terrible sin took the lives of our American family , innocent children in that building only because their parents were trying to be good parents as well as good workers , citizens in the building going about their daily business and many there who served the rest of us , who worked to help the elderly and the disabled , who worked to support our farmers and our veterans , who worked to enforce our laws and to protect us . Let us say clearly , they served us well , and we are grateful . But for so many of you they were also neighbors and friends . You saw them at church or the PTA meetings , at the civic clubs , at the ball park . You know them in ways that all the rest of America could not . And to all the members of the families here present who have suffered loss , though we share your grief , your pain is unimaginable , and we know that . We cannot undo it . That is God s work . Our words seem small beside the loss you have endured . But I found a few I wanted to share today . I have received a lot of letters in these last terrible days . One stood out because it came from a young widow and a mother of three whose own husband was murdered with over 200 other Americans when Pan Am 103 was shot down . Here is what that woman said I should say to you today The anger you feel is valid , but you must not allow yourselves to be consumed by it . The hurt you feel must not be allowed to turn into hate but instead into the search for justice . The loss you feel must not paralyze your own lives . Instead , you must try to pay tribute to your loved ones by continuing to do all the things they left undone , thus ensuring they did not die in vain . Wise words from one who also knows . You have lost too much , but you have not lost everything . And you have certainly not lost America , for we will stand with you for as many tomorrows as it takes . If ever we needed evidence of that , I could only recall the words of Governor and Keating . If anybody thinks that Americans are mostly mean and selfish , they ought to come to Oklahoma . If anybody thinks Americans have lost the capacity for love and caring and courage , they ought to come to Oklahoma . To all my fellow Americans beyond this hall , I say , one thing we owe those who have sacrificed is the duty to purge ourselves of the dark forces which gave rise to this evil . They are forces that threaten our common peace , our freedom , our way of life . Let us teach our children that the God of comfort is also the God of righteousness . Those who trouble their own house will inherit the wind . Justice will prevail . Let us let our own children know that we will stand against the forces of fear . When there is talk of hatred , let us stand up and talk against it . When there is talk of violence , let us stand up and talk against it . In the face of death , let us honor life . As Paul admonished us , let us not be overcome by evil , but overcome evil with good . Yesterday Hillary and I had the privilege of speaking with some children of other Federal employees , children like those who were lost here . And one little girl said something we will never forget . She said , we should all plant a tree in memory of the children . So this morning before we got on the plane to come here , at the White House , we planted that tree in honor of the children of Oklahoma . It was a dogwood with its wonderful spring flower and its deep , enduring roots . It embodies the lesson of the Psalms that the life of a good person is like a tree whose leaf does not wither . My fellow Americans , a tree takes a long time to grow and wounds take a long time to heal . But we must begin . Those who are lost now belong to God . Some day we will be with them . But until that happens , their legacy must be our lives . Thank you all , and God bless you .<speech_sep>Thank you . You know , when I was a boy growing up in Arkansas , I thought it highly I thought it highly unlikely that I would ever become President of the United States . Perhaps the only thing even more unlikely was that I should ever have the opportunity to be cheered at the University of Texas . I must say I am very grateful for both of them . President Berdahl , Chancellor Cunningham , Dean Olson to the Texas Longhorn Band , thank you for playing Hail to the Chief . You were magnificent . To my longtime friend of nearly 25 years now , Bernard Rapoport , thank you for your statement and your inspiration and your life of generous giving to this great university and so many other good causes . All the distinguished guests in the audience I hesitate to start , but I thank my friend and your fellow Texan Henry Cisneros for coming down here with me and for his magnificent work as Secretary of HUI thank your Congressman , Lloyd Doggett , and his wife , Libby , for flying down with me . And I am glad to see my dear friend Congressman Jake Pickle here I miss you . Your attorney general , Dan Morales the land commissioner , Garry Mauro , I thank all of them for being here . Thank you , Luci Johnson , for being here , and please give my regards to your wonderful mother . I have not seen her here there she is . And I have to recognize and thank your former Congresswoman and now distinguished professor , Barbara Jordan , for the magnificent job you did on the immigration issue . Thank you so much . Thank you . Thank you . My wife told me about coming here so much , I wanted to come and see for myself . I also know , as all of you do , that there is no such thing as saying no to Liz Carpenter . I drug it out as long as I could just to hear a few more jokes . My fellow Americans , I want to begin by telling you that I am hopeful about America . When I looked at Nikole Bell up here introducing me and I shook hands with these other young students , I looked into their eyes , I saw the AmeriCorps button on that gentleman s shirt , I was reminded , as I talk about this thorny subject of race today , I was reminded of what Winston Churchill said about the United States when President Roosevelt was trying to pass the Lend Lease Act so that we could help Britain in their war against Nazi Germany before we , ourselves , were involved . And for a good while the issue was hanging fire , and it was unclear whether the Congress would permit us to help Britain , who at that time was the only bulwark against tyranny in Europe . And Winston Churchill said , I have great confidence in the judgment and the common sense of the American people and their leaders . They invariably do the right thing after they have examined every other alternative . So I say to you , let me begin by saying that I can see in the eyes of these students and in the spirit of this moment , we will do the right thing . In recent weeks , every one of us has been made aware of a simple truth White Americans and black Americans often see the same world in drastically different ways , ways that go beyond and beneath the Simpson trial and its aftermath , which brought these perceptions so starkly into the open . The rift we see before us that is tearing at the heart of America exists in spite of the remarkable progress black Americans have made in the last generation , since Martin Luther King swept America up in his dream and President Johnson spoke so powerfully for the dignity of man and the destiny of democracy in demanding that Congress guarantee full voting rights to blacks . The rift between blacks and whites exists still in a very special way in America , in spite of the fact that we have become much more racially and ethnically diverse and that Hispanic Americans , themselves no strangers to discrimination , are now almost 10 percent of our national population . The reasons for this divide are many . Some are rooted in the awful history and stubborn persistence of racism . Some are rooted in the different ways we experience the threats of modern life to personal security , family values , and strong communities . Some are rooted in the fact that we still have not learned to talk frankly , to listen carefully , and to work together across racial lines . Almost 30 years ago , Martin Luther King took his last march with sanitation workers in Memphis . They marched for dignity , equality , and economic justice . Many carried placards that read simply , I am a man . The throngs of men marching in Washington today , almost all of them , are doing so for the same stated reason . But there is a profound difference between this march today and those of 30 years ago . Thirty years ago , the marchers were demanding the dignity and opportunity they were due because in the face of terrible discrimination , they had worked hard , raised their children , paid their taxes , obeyed the laws , and fought our wars . Well , today s march is also about pride and dignity and respect . But after a generation of deepening social problems that disproportionately impact black Americans , it is also about black men taking renewed responsibility for themselves , their families , and their communities . It is about saying no to crime and drugs and violence . It is about standing up for atonement and reconciliation . It is about insisting that others do the same and offering to help them . It is about the frank admission that unless black men shoulder their load , no one else can help them or their brothers , their sisters , and their children escape the hard , bleak lives that too many of them still face . Of course , some of those in the march do have a history that is far from its message of atonement and reconciliation . One million men are right to be standing up for personal responsibility . But one million men do not make right one man s message of malice and division . No good house was ever built on a bad foundation . Nothing good ever came of hate . So let us pray today that all who march and all who speak will stand for atonement , for reconciliation , for responsibility . Let us pray that those who have spoken for hatred and division in the past will turn away from that past and give voice to the true message of those ordinary Americans who march . If that happens , the men and the women who are there with them will be marching into better lives for themselves and their families . And they could be marching into a better future for America . Today we face a choice . One way leads to further separation and bitterness and more lost futures . The other way , the path of courage and wisdom , leads to unity , to reconciliation , to a rich opportunity for all Americans to make the most of the lives God gave them . This moment in which the racial divide is so clearly out in the open need not be a setback for us . It presents us with a great opportunity , and we dare not let it pass us by . In the past , when we have had the courage to face the truth about our failure to live up to our own best ideals , we have grown stronger , moved forward , and restored proud American optimism . At such turning points , America moved to preserve the Union and abolish slavery , to embrace women s suffrage , to guarantee basic legal rights to America without regard to race , under the leadership of President Johnson . At each of these moments , we looked in the national mirror and were brave enough to say , this is not who we are we are better than that . Abraham Lincoln reminded us that a house divided against itself cannot stand . When divisions have threatened to bring our house down , somehow we have always moved together to shore it up . My fellow Americans , our house is the greatest democracy in all human history . And with all its racial and ethnic diversity , it has beaten the odds of human history . But we know that divisions remain , and we still have work to do . The two worlds we see now each contain both truth and distortion . Both black and white Americans must face this , for honesty is the only gateway to the many acts of reconciliation that will unite our worlds at last into one America . White America must understand and acknowledge the roots of black pain . It began with unequal treatment , first in law and later in fact . African Americans indeed have lived too long with a justice system that in too many cases has been and continues to be less than just . The record of abuses extends from lynchings and trumped up charges to false arrests and police brutality . The tragedies of Emmett Till and Rodney King are bloody markers on the very same road . Still today , too many of our police officers play by the rules of the bad old days . It is beyond wrong when law abiding black parents have to tell their law abiding children to fear the police whose salaries are paid by their own taxes . And blacks are right to think something is terribly wrong when African American men are many times more likely to be victims of homicide than any other group in this country , when there are more African American men in our corrections system than in our colleges , when almost one in three African American men in their 20 s are either in jail , on parole , or otherwise under the supervision of the criminal justice system , nearly one in three . And that is a disproportionate percentage in comparison to the percentage of blacks who use drugs in our society . Now , I would like every white person here and in America to take a moment to think how he or she would feel if one in three white men were in similar circumstances . And there is still unacceptable economic disparity between blacks and whites . It is so fashionable to talk today about African Americans as if they have been some sort of protected class . Many whites think blacks are getting more than their fair share in terms of jobs and promotions . That is not true . That is not true . The truth is that African Americans still make on average about 60 percent of what white people do , that more than half of African American children live in poverty . And at the very time our young Americans need access to college more than ever before , black college enrollment is dropping in America . On the other hand , blacks must understand and acknowledge the roots of white fear in America . There is a legitimate fear of the violence that is too prevalent in our urban areas . And often , by experience or at least what people see on the news at night , violence for those white people too often has a black face . It is not racist for a parent to pull his or her child close when walking through a high crime neighborhood or to wish to stay away from neighborhoods where innocent children can be shot in school or standing at bus stops by thugs driving by with assault weapons or toting handguns like Old West desperadoes . It is not racist for parents to recoil in disgust when they read about a national survey of gang members saying that two thirds of them feel justified in shooting someone simply for showing them disrespect . It is not racist for whites to say they do not understand why people put up with gangs on the corner or in the projects or with drugs being sold in the schools or in the open . It is not racist for whites to assert that the culture of welfare dependency , out of wedlock pregnancy , and absent fatherhood cannot be broken by social programs unless there is first more personal responsibility . The great potential for this march today , beyond the black community , is that whites will come to see a larger truth that blacks share their fears and embrace their convictions , openly assert that without changes in the black community and within individuals , real change for our society will not come . This march could remind white people that most black people share their old fashioned American values , for most black Americans still do work hard , care for their families , pay their taxes , and obey the law , often under circumstances which are far more difficult than those their white counterparts face . Imagine how you would feel if you were a young parent in your 20 s with a young child living in a housing project , working somewhere for 5 an hour with no health insurance , passing every day people on the street selling drugs , making 100 times what you make . Those people are the real heroes of America today , and we should recognize that . And white people too often forget that they are not immune to the problems black Americans face , crime , drugs , domestic abuse , and teen pregnancy . They are too prevalent among whites as well , and some of those problems are growing faster in our white population than in our minority population . So we all have a stake in solving these common problems together . It is therefore wrong for white Americans to do what they have done too often , simply to move further away from the problems and support policies that will only make them worse . Finally , both sides seem to fear deep down inside that they will never quite be able to see each other as more than enemy faces , all of whom carry at least a sliver of bigotry in their hearts . Differences of opinion rooted in different experiences are healthy , indeed essential , for democracies . But differences so great and so rooted in race threaten to divide the house Lincoln gave his life to save . As King said , We must learn to live together as brothers , or we will perish as fools . Recognizing one another s real grievances is only the first step . We must all take responsibility for ourselves , our conduct , and our attitudes . America , we must clean our house of racism . To our white citizens , I say , I know most of you every day do your very best by your own lights to live a life free of discrimination . Nevertheless , too many destructive ideas are gaining currency in our midst . The taped voice of one policeman should fill you with outrage . And so I say , we must clean the house of white America of racism . Americans who are in the white majority should be proud to stand up and be heard denouncing the sort of racist rhetoric we heard on that tape , so loudly and clearly denouncing it that our black fellow citizens can hear us . White racism may be black people s burden , but it is white people s problem . We must clean our house . To our black citizens , I honor the presence of hundreds of thousands of men in Washington today committed to atonement and to personal responsibility and the commitment of millions of other men and women who are African Americans to this cause . I call upon you to build on this effort , to share equally in the promise of America . But to do that , your house , too , must be cleaned of racism . There are too many today , white and black , on the left and the right , on the street corners and the radio waves , who seek to sow division for their own purposes . To them I say , no more . We must be one . Long before we were so diverse , our Nation s motto was E pluribus unum , out of many , we are one . We must be one , as neighbors , as fellow citizens , not separate camps but family , white , black , Latino , all of us , no matter how different , who share basic American values and are willing to live by them . When a child is gunned down on a street in the Bronx , no matter what our race , he is our American child . When a woman dies from a beating , no matter what our race or hers , she is our American sister . And every time drugs course through the vein of another child , it clouds the future of all our American children . Whether we like it or not , we are one nation , one family , indivisible . And for us , divorce or separation are not options . Here in 1995 , on the edge of the 21st century , we dare not tolerate the existence of two Americas . Under my watch , I will do everything I can to see that as soon as possible there is only one , one America under the rule of law , one social contract committed not to winner take all but to giving all Americans a chance to win together , one America . Well , how do we get there First , today I ask every Governor , every mayor , every business leader , every church leader , every civic leader , every union steward , every student leader , most important , every citizen , in every workplace and learning place and meeting place all across America to take personal responsibility for reaching out to people of different races , for taking time to sit down and talk through this issue , to have the courage to speak honestly and frankly , and then to have the discipline to listen quietly with an open mind and an open heart , as others do the same . This may seem like a simple request , but for tens of millions of Americans , this has never been a reality . They have never spoken , and they have never listened , not really , not really . I am convinced , based on a rich lifetime of friendships and common endeavors with people of different races , that the American people will find out they have a lot more in common than they think they do . The second thing we have to do is to defend and enhance real opportunity . I am not talking about opportunity for black Americans or opportunity for white Americans I am talking about opportunity for all Americans . Sooner or later , all our speaking , all our listening , all our caring has to lead to constructive action together for our words and our intentions to have meaning . We can do this first by truly rewarding work and family in Government policies , in employment policies , in community practices . We also have to realize that there are some areas of our country , whether in urban areas or poor rural areas like south Texas or eastern Arkansas , where these problems are going to be more prevalent just because there is no opportunity . There is only so much temptation some people can stand when they turn up against a brick wall day after day after day . And if we can spread the benefits of education and free enterprise to those who have been denied them too long and who are isolated in enclaves in this country , then we have a moral obligation to do it . It will be good for our country . Third and perhaps most important of all , we have to give every child in this country , and every adult who still needs it , the opportunity to get a good education . President Johnson understood that , and now that I am privileged to have this job and to look back across the whole sweep of American history , I can appreciate how truly historic his commitment to the simple idea that every child in this country ought to have an opportunity to get a good , safe , decent , fulfilling education was . It was revolutionary then , and it is revolutionary today . Today that matters more than ever . I am trying to do my part . I am fighting hard against efforts to roll back family security , aid to distressed communities , and support for education . I want it to be easier for poor children to get off to a good start in school , not harder . I want it to be easier for everybody to go to college and stay there , not harder . I want to mend affirmative action , but I do not think America is at a place today where we can end it . The evidence of the last several weeks shows that . But let us remember , the people marching in Washington today are right about one fundamental thing At its base , this issue of race is not about government or political leaders , it is about what is in the heart and minds and life of the American people . There will be no progress in the absence of real responsibility on the part of all Americans . Nowhere is that responsibility more important than in our efforts to promote public safety and preserve the rule of law . Law and order is the first responsibility of government . Our citizens must respect the law and those who enforce it . Police have a life and death responsibility never , never to abuse the power granted them by the people . We know , by the way , what works in fighting crime also happens to improve relationships between the races . What works in fighting crime is community policing . We have seen it working all across America . The crime rate is down , the murder rate is down where people relate to each other across the lines of police and community in an open , honest , respectful , supportive way . We can lower crime and raise the state of race relations in America if we will remember this simple truth . But if this is going to work , police departments have to be fair and engaged with , not estranged from , their communities . I am committed to making this kind of community policing a reality all across our country . But you must be committed to making it a reality in your communities . We have to root out the remnants of racism in our police departments . We have got to get it out of our entire criminal justice system . But just as the police have a sacred duty to protect the community fairly , all of our citizens have a sacred responsibility to respect the police , to teach our young people to respect them , and then to support them and work with them so that they can succeed in making us safer . Let us not forget , most police officers of whatever race are honest people who love the law and put their lives on the lines so that the citizens they are protecting can lead decent , secure lives and so that their children can grow up to do the same . Finally , I want to say , on the day of this march , a moment about a crucial area of responsibility , the responsibility of fatherhood . The single biggest social problem in our society may be the growing absence of fathers from their children s homes , because it contributes to so many other social problems . One child in four grows up in a fatherless home . Without a father to help guide , without a father to care , without a father to teach boys to be men and to teach girls to expect respect from men , it is harder . There are a lot of mothers out there doing a magnificent job alone , a magnificent job alone , but it is harder . It is harder . This , of course , is not a black problem or a Latino problem or a white problem , it is an American problem . But it aggravates the conditions of the racial divide . I know from my own life it is harder , because my own father died before I was born , and my stepfather s battle with alcohol kept him from being the father he might have been . But for all fathers , parenting is not easy , and every parent makes mistakes . I know that , too , from my own experience . The point is that we need people to be there for their children day after day . Building a family is the hardest job a man can do , but it is also the most important . For those who are neglecting their children , I say it is not too late your children still need you . To those who only send money in the form of child support , I say keep sending the checks your kids count on them , and we will catch you and enforce the law if you stop . But the message of this march today one message is that your money is no replacement for your guiding , your caring , your loving the children you brought into this world . We can only build strong families when men and women respect each other , when they have partnerships , when men are as involved in the homeplace as women have become involved in the workplace . It means , among other things , that we must keep working until we end domestic violence against women and children . I hope those men in Washington today pledge among other things to never , never raise their hand in violence against a woman . So today , my fellow Americans , I honor the black men marching in Washington to demonstrate their commitment to themselves , their families , and their communities . I honor the millions of men and women in America , the vast majority of every color , who without fanfare or recognition do what it takes to be good fathers and good mothers , good workers and good citizens . They all deserve the thanks of America . But when we leave here today , what are you going to do What are you going to do Let all of us who want to stand up against racism do our part to roll back the divide . Begin by seeking out people in the workplace , the classroom , the community , the neighborhood across town , the places of worship to actually sit down and have those honest conversations I talked about , conversations where we speak openly and listen and understand how others view this world of ours . Make no mistake about it , we can bridge this great divide . This is , after all , a very great country . And we have become great by what we have overcome . We have the world s strongest economy , and it is on the move . But we have really lasted because we have understood that our success could never be measured solely by the size of our gross national product . I believe the march in Washington today spawned such an outpouring because it is a reflection of something deeper and stronger that is running throughout our American community . I believe that in millions and millions of different ways , our entire country is reasserting our commitment to the bedrock values that made our country great and that make life worth living . The great divides of the past called for and were addressed by legal and legislative changes . They were addressed by leaders like Lyndon Johnson , who passed the Civil Rights Act and the Voting Rights Act . And to be sure , this great divide requires a public response by democratically elected leaders . But today , we are really dealing , and we know it , with problems that grow in large measure out of the way all of us look at the world with our minds and the way we feel about the world with our hearts . And therefore , while leaders and legislation may be important , this is work that has to be done by every single one of you . And this is the ultimate test of our democracy , for today the house divided exists largely in the minds and hearts of the American people . And it must be united there , in the minds and hearts of our people . Yes , there are some who would poison our progress by selling short the great character of our people and our enormous capacity to change and grow . But they will not win the day we will win the day . With your help , with your help , that day will come a lot sooner . I will do my part , but you , my fellow citizens , must do yours . Thank you , and God bless you .<speech_sep>Speaker , Vice President , members of Congress , honored guests , my fellow Americans We are fortunate to be alive at this moment in history . Never before has our nation enjoyed , at once , so much prosperity and social progress with so little internal crisis and so few external threats . Never before have we had such a blessed opportunity and , therefore , such a profound obligation to build the more perfect Union of our Founders dreams . We begin the new century with over 20 million new jobs the fastest economic growth in more than 30 years the lowest unemployment rates in 30 years the lowest poverty rates in 20 years the lowest African American and Hispanic unemployment rates on record the first back to back surpluses in 42 years and next month , America will achieve the longest period of economic growth in our entire history . We have built a new economy . And our economic revolution has been matched by a revival of the American spirit crime down by 20 percent , to its lowest level in 25 years teen births down seven years in a row adoptions up by 30 percent welfare rolls cut in half , to their lowest levels in 30 years . My fellow Americans , the state of our Union is the strongest it has ever been . As always , the real credit belongs to the American people . My gratitude also goes to those of you in this chamber who have worked with us to put progress over partisanship . Eight years ago , it was not so clear to most Americans there would be much to celebrate in the year 2000 . Then our nation was gripped by economic distress , social decline , political gridlock . The title of a best selling book asked America What Went Wrong In the best traditions of our nation , Americans determined to set things right . We restored the vital center , replacing outmoded ideologies with a new vision anchored in basic , enduring values opportunity for all , responsibility from all , a community of all Americans . We reinvented government , transforming it into a catalyst for new ideas that stress both opportunity and responsibility and give our people the tools they need to solve their own problems . With the smallest federal work force in 40 years , we turned record deficits into record surpluses and doubled our investment in education . We cut crime with 100 , 000 community police and the Brady law , which has kept guns out of the hands of half a million criminals . We ended welfare as we knew it , requiring work while protecting health care and nutrition for children and investing more in child care , transportation , and housing to help their parents go to work . We have helped parents to succeed at home and at work with family leave , which 20 million Americans have now used to care for a newborn child or a sick loved one . We have engaged 150 , 000 young Americans in citizen service through AmeriCorps , while helping them earn money for college . In 1992 , we just had a roadmap . Today , we have results . Even more important , America again has the confidence to dream big dreams . But we must not let this confidence drift into complacency . For we , all of us , will be judged by the dreams and deeds we pass on to our children . And on that score , we will be held to a high standard , indeed , because our chance to do good is so great . My fellow Americans , we have crossed the bridge we built to the 21st century . Now , we must shape a 21st century American revolution of opportunity , responsibility , and community . We must be now , as we were in the beginning , a new nation . At the dawn of the last century , Theodore Roosevelt said , The one characteristic more essential than any other is foresight . . . it should be the growing nation with a future that takes the long look ahead . So tonight let us take our long look ahead and set great goals for our Nation . To 21st century America , let us pledge these things Every child will begin school ready to learn and graduate ready to succeed . Every family will be able to succeed at home and at work , and no child will be raised in poverty . We will meet the challenge of the aging of America . We will assure quality , affordable health care , at last , for all Americans . We will make America the safest big country on Earth . We will pay off our national debt for the first time since 1835 . We will bring prosperity to every American community . We will reverse the course of climate change and leave a safer , cleaner planet . America will lead the world toward shared peace and prosperity and the far frontiers of science and technology . And we will become at last what our Founders pledged us to be so long ago White House correction . One nation , under God , indivisible , with liberty and justice for all . These are great goals , worthy of a great nation . We will not reach them all this year , not even in this decade . But we will reach them . Let us remember that the first American Revolution was not won with a single shot the continent was not settled in a single year . The lesson of our history and the lesson of the last seven years is that great goals are reached step by step , always building on our progress , always gaining ground . Of course , you cannot gain ground if you are standing still . And for too long this Congress has been standing still on some of our most pressing national priorities . So let us begin tonight with them . Again , I ask you to pass a real Patients Bill of Rights . I ask you to pass common sense gun safety legislation . I ask you to pass campaign finance reform . I ask you to vote up or down on judicial nominations and other important appointees . And again , I ask you I implore you to raise the minimum wage . Now , two years ago let me try to balance the seesaw here two years ago , as we reached across party lines to reach our first balanced budget , I asked that we meet our responsibility to the next generation by maintaining our fiscal discipline . Because we refused to stray from that path , we are doing something that would have seemed unimaginable seven years ago . We are actually paying down the national debt . Now , if we stay on this path , we can pay down the debt entirely in just 13 years now and make America debt free for the first time since Andrew Jackson was President in 1835 . In 1993 we began to put our fiscal house in order with the Deficit Reduction Act , which you will all remember won passages in both Houses by just a single vote . Your former colleague , my first Secretary of the Treasury , led that effort and sparked our long boom . He is here with us tonight . Lloyd Bentsen , you have served America well , and we thank you . Beyond paying off the debt , we must ensure that the benefits of debt reduction go to preserving two of the most important guarantees we make to every American , Social Security and Medicare . Tonight I ask you to work with me to make a bipartisan downpayment on Social Security reform by crediting the interest savings from debt reduction to the Social Security Trust Fund so that it will be strong and sound for the next 50 years . But this is just the start of our journey . We must also take the right steps toward reaching our great goals . First and foremost , we need a 21st century revolution in education , guided by our faith that every single child can learn . Because education is more important than ever , more than ever the key to our children s future , we must make sure all our children have that key . That means quality preschool and after school , the best trained teachers in the classroom , and college opportunities for all our children . For seven years now , we have worked hard to improve our schools , with opportunity and responsibility , investing more but demanding more in turn . Reading , math , college entrance scores are up . Some of the most impressive gains are in schools in very poor neighborhoods . But all successful schools have followed the same proven formula higher standards , more accountability , and extra help so children who need it can get it to reach those standards . I have sent Congress a reform plan based on that formula . It holds states and school districts accountable for progress and rewards them for results . Each year , our national government invests more than 15 billion in our schools . It is time to support what works and stop supporting what does not . Now , as we demand more from our schools , we should also invest more in our schools . Let us double our investment to help states and districts turn around their worst performing schools or shut them down . Let us double our investments in after school and summer school programs , which boost achievement and keep people off the streets and out of trouble . If we do this , we can give every single child in every failing school in America everyone the chance to meet high standards . Since 1993 , we have nearly doubled our investment in Head Start and improved its quality . Tonight I ask you for another 1 billion for Head Start , the largest increase in the history of the program . We know that children learn best in smaller classes with good teachers . For two years in a row , Congress has supported my plan to hire 100 , 000 new qualified teachers to lower class size in the early grades . I thank you for that , and I ask you to make it three in a row . And to make sure all teachers know the subjects they teach , tonight I propose a new teacher quality initiative , to recruit more talented people into the classroom , reward good teachers for staying there , and give all teachers the training they need . We know charter schools provide real public school choice . When I became President , there was just one independent public charter school in all America . Today , thanks to you , there are 1 , 700 . I ask you now to help us meet our goal of 3 , 000 charter schools by next year . We know we must connect all our classrooms to the Internet , and we are getting there . In 1994 , only 3 percent of our classrooms were connected . Today , with the help of the Vice President s E rate program , more than half of them are , and 90 percent of our schools have at least one Internet connection . But we cannot finish the job when a third of all our schools are in serious disrepair . Many of them have walls and wires so old , they are too old for the Internet . So tonight I propose to help 5 , 000 schools a year make immediate and urgent repairs and , again , to help build or modernize 6 , 000 more , to get students out of trailers and into high tech classrooms . I ask all of you to help me double our bipartisan GEAR UP program , which provides mentors for disadvantaged young people . If we double it , we can provide mentors for 1 . 4 million of them . Let us also offer these kids from disadvantaged backgrounds the same chance to take the same college test prep courses wealthier students use to boost their test scores . To make the American dream achievable for all , we must make college affordable for all . For seven years , on a bipartisan basis , we have taken action toward that goal larger Pell Grants , more affordable student loans , education IRAs , and our HOPE scholarships , which have already benefited five million young people . Now , 67 percent of high school graduates are going on to college . That is up 10 percent since 1993 . Yet millions of families still strain to pay college tuition . They need help . So I propose a landmark 30 billion college opportunity tax cut , a middle class tax deduction for up to 10 , 000 in college tuition costs . The previous actions of this Congress have already made two years of college affordable for all . It is time make four years of college affordable for all . If we take all these steps , we will move a long way toward making sure every child starts school ready to learn and graduates ready to succeed . We also need a 21st century revolution to reward work and strengthen families by giving every parent the tools to succeed at work and at the most important work of all , raising children . That means making sure every family has health care and the support to care for aging parents , the tools to bring their children up right , and that no child grows up in poverty . From my first days as President , we have worked to give families better access to better health care . In 1997 , we passed the Children s Health Insurance Program CHIP so that workers who do not have coverage through their employers at least can get it for their children . So far , we have enrolled two million children . We are well on our way to our goal of five million . But there are still more than 40 million of our fellow Americans without health insurance , more than there were in 1993 . Tonight I propose that we follow Vice President Gore s suggestion to make low income parents eligible for the insurance that covers their children . Together with our children s initiative think of this together with our children s initiative , this action would enable us to cover nearly a quarter of all the uninsured people in America . Again , I want to ask you to let people between the ages of 55 and 65 , the fastest growing group of uninsured , buy into Medicare . And this year I propose to give them a tax credit to make that choice an affordable one . I hope you will support that , as well . When the baby boomers retire , Medicare will be faced with caring for twice as many of our citizens yet , it is far from ready to do so . My generation must not ask our children s generation to shoulder our burden . We simply must act now to strengthen and modernize Medicare . My budget includes a comprehensive plan to reform Medicare , to make it more efficient and more competitive . And it dedicates nearly 400 billion of our budget surplus to keep Medicare solvent past 2025 . And at long last , it also provides funds to give every senior a voluntary choice of affordable coverage for prescription drugs . Lifesaving drugs are an indispensable part of modern medicine . No one creating a Medicare program today would even think of excluding coverage for prescription drugs . Yet more than three in five of our seniors now lack dependable drug coverage which can lengthen and enrich their lives . Millions of older Americans , who need prescription drugs the most , pay the highest prices for them . In good conscience , we cannot let another year pass without extending to all our seniors this lifeline of affordable prescription drugs . Record numbers of Americans are providing for aging or ailing loved ones at home . It is a loving but a difficult and often very expensive choice . Last year , I proposed a 1 , 000 tax credit for long term care . Frankly , it was not enough . This year , let us triple it to 3 , 000 . But this year , let us pass it . We also have to make needed investments to expand access to mental health care . I want to take a moment to thank the person who led our first White House Conference on Mental Health last year and who for seven years has led all our efforts to break down the barriers to decent treatment of people with mental illness . Thank you , Tipper Gore . Taken together , these proposals would mark the largest investment in health care in the 35 years since Medicare was created the largest investment in 35 years . That would be a big step toward assuring quality health care for all Americans , young and old . And I ask you to embrace them and pass them . We must also make investments that reward work and support families . Nothing does that better than the earned income tax credit , the EITThe in the EITC is about earning , working , taking responsibility , and being rewarded for it . In my very first address to you , I asked Congress to greatly expand this credit , and you did . As a result , in 1998 alone , the EITC helped more than 4 . 3 million Americans work their way out of poverty toward the middle class . That is double the number in 1993 . Tonight I propose another major expansion of the EITto reduce the marriage penalty , to make sure it rewards marriage as it rewards work , and also to expand the tax credit for families that have more than two children . It punishes people with more than two children today . Our proposal would allow families with three or more children to get up to 1 , 100 more in tax relief . These are working families their children should not be in poverty . We also cannot reward work and family unless men and women get equal pay for equal work . Today the female unemployment rate is the lowest it has been in 46 years . Yet , women still only earn about 75 cents for every dollar men earn . We must do better , by providing the resources to enforce present equal pay laws , training more women for high paying , high tech jobs , and passing the Paycheck Fairness Act . Many working parents spend up to a quarter a quarter of their income on child care . Last year , we helped parents provide child care for about two million children . My child care initiative before you now , along with funds already secured in welfare reform , would make child care better , safer , and more affordable for another 400 , 000 children . I ask you to pass that . They need it out there . For hard pressed middle income families , we should also expand the child care tax credit . And I believe strongly we should take the next big step and make that tax credit refundable for low income families . For people making under 30 , 000 a year , that could mean up to 2 , 400 for child care costs . You know , we all say we are pro work and pro family . Passing this proposal would prove it . Ten of millions of Americans live from paycheck to paycheck . As hard as they work , they still do not have the opportunity to save . Too few can make use of IRAs and 401k plans . We should do more to help all working families save and accumulate wealth . That is the idea behind the Individual Development Accounts , the IDAs . I ask you to take that idea to a new level , with new retirement savings accounts that enable every low and moderate income family in America to save for retirement , a first home , a medical emergency , or a college education . I propose to match their contributions , however small , dollar for dollar , every year they save . And I propose to give a major new tax credit to any small business that will provide a meaningful pension to its workers . Those people ought to have retirement as well as the rest of us . Nearly one in three American children grows up without a father . These children are five times more likely to live in poverty than children with both parents at home . Clearly , demanding and supporting responsible fatherhood is critical to lifting all our children out of poverty . We have doubled child support collections since 1992 . And I am proposing to you tough new measures to hold still more fathers responsible . But we should recognize that a lot of fathers want to do right by their children but need help to do it . Carlos Rosas of Paul , Minnesota , wanted to do right by his son , and he got the help to do it . Now he is got a good job , and he supports his little boy . My budget will help 40 , 000 more fathers make the same choices Carlos Rosas did . I thank him for being here tonight . Stand up , Carlos . Thank you . If there is any single issue on which we should be able to reach across party lines , it is in our common commitment to reward work and strengthen families . Just remember what we did last year . We came together to help people with disabilities keep their health insurance when they go to work . And I thank you for that . Thanks to overwhelming bipartisan support from this Congress , we have improved foster care . We have helped those young people who leave it when they turn 18 , and we have dramatically increased the number of foster care children going into adoptive homes . I thank all of you for all of that . Of course , I am forever grateful to the person who has led our efforts from the beginning and who is worked so tirelessly for children and families for 30 years now , my wife , Hillary , and I thank her . If we take the steps just discussed , we can go a long , long way toward empowering parents to succeed at home and at work and ensuring that no child is raised in poverty . We can make these vital investments in health care , education , support for working families , and still offer tax cuts to help pay for college , for retirement , to care for aging parents , to reduce the marriage penalty . We can do these things without forsaking the path of fiscal discipline that got us to this point here tonight . Indeed , we must make these investments and these tax cuts in the context of a balanced budget that strengthens and extends the life of Social Security and Medicare and pays down the national debt . Crime in America has dropped for the past seven years that is the longest decline on record thanks to a national consensus we helped to forge on community police , sensible gun safety laws , and effective prevention . But nobody , nobody here , nobody in America believes we are safe enough . So again , I ask you to set a higher goal . Let us make this country the safest big country in the world . Last fall , Congress supported my plan to hire , in addition to the 100 , 000 community police we have already funded , 50 , 000 more , concentrated in high crime neighborhoods . I ask your continued support for that . Soon after the Columbine tragedy , Congress considered commonsense gun legislation , to require Brady background checks at the gun shows , child safety locks for new handguns , and a ban on the importation of large capacity ammunition clips . With courage and a tie breaking vote by the Vice President the Senate faced down the gun lobby , stood up for the American people , and passed this legislation . But the House failed to follow suit . Now , we have all seen what happens when guns fall into the wrong hands . Daniel Mauser was only 15 years old when he was gunned down at Columbine . He was an amazing kid , a straight A student , a good skier . Like all parents who lose their children , his father , Tom , has borne unimaginable grief . Somehow he has found the strength to honor his son by transforming his grief into action . Earlier this month , he took a leave of absence from his job to fight for tougher gun safety laws . I pray that his courage and wisdom will at long last move this Congress to make commonsense gun legislation the very next order of business . Tom Mauser , stand up . We thank you for being here tonight . Tom . Thank you , Tom . We must strengthen our gun laws and enforce those already on the books better . Federal gun crime prosecutions are up 16 percent since I took office . But we must do more . I propose to hire more federal and local gun prosecutors and more ATF agents to crack down on illegal gun traffickers and bad apple dealers . And we must give them the enforcement tools that they need , tools to trace every gun and every bullet used in every gun crime in the United States . I ask you to help us do that . Every State in this country already requires hunters and automobile drivers to have a license . I think they ought to do the same thing for handgun purchases . Now , specifically , I propose a plan to ensure that all new handgun buyers must first have a photo license from their state showing they passed the Brady background check and a gun safety course , before they get the gun . I hope you will help me pass that in this Congress . Listen to this listen to this . The accidental gun rate the accidental gun death rate of children under 15 in the United States is nine times higher than in the other 25 industrialized countries combined . Now , technologies now exist that could lead to guns that can only be fired by the adults who own them . I ask Congress to fund research into smart gun technology to save these children s lives . I ask responsible leaders in the gun industry to work with us on smart guns and other steps to keep guns out of the wrong hands , to keep our children safe . You know , every parent I know worries about the impact of violence in the media on their children . I want to begin by thanking the entertainment industry for accepting my challenge to put voluntary ratings on TV programs and video and Internet games . But frankly , the ratings are too numerous , diverse , and confusing to be really useful to parents . So tonight I ask the industry to accept the First Lady s challenge to develop a single voluntary rating system for all children s entertainment that is easier for parents to understand and enforce . The steps I outline will take us well on our way to making America the safest big country in the world . Now , to keep our historic economic expansion going , the subject of a lot of discussion in this community and others , I believe we need a 21st century revolution to open new markets , start new businesses , hire new workers right here in America , in our inner cities , poor rural areas , and Native American reservations . Our nation s prosperity has not yet reached these places . Over the last six months , I have traveled to a lot of them , joined by many of you and many far sighted business people , to shine a spotlight on the enormous potential in communities from Appalachia to the Mississippi Delta , from Watts to the Pine Ridge Reservation . Everywhere I go , I meet talented people eager for opportunity and able to work . Tonight I ask you , let us put them to work . For business , it is the smart thing to do . For America , it is the right thing to do . And let me ask you something If we do not do this now , when in the wide world will we ever get around to it So I ask Congress to give businesses the same incentives to invest in America s new markets they now have to invest in markets overseas . Tonight I propose a large new markets tax credit and other incentives to spur 22 billion in private sector capital to create new businesses and new investments in our inner cities and rural areas . Because empowerment zones have been creating these opportunities for five years now , I also ask you to increase incentives to invest in them and to create more of them . And let me say to all of you again what I have tried to say at every turn This is not a Democratic or a Republican issue . Giving people a chance to live their dreams is an American issue . Speaker , it was a powerful moment last November when you joined Reverend Jesse Jackson and me in your home state of Illinois and committed to working toward our common goal by combining the best ideas from both sides of the aisle . I want to thank you again and to tell you , Speaker , I look forward to working with you . This is a worthy joint endeavor . Thank you . I also ask you to make special efforts to address the areas of our Nation with the highest rates of poverty , our Native American reservations and the Mississippi Delta . My budget includes a 110 million initiative to promote economic development in the Delta and a billion dollars to increase economic opportunity , health care , education , and law enforcement for our Native American communities . We should begin this new century by honoring our historic responsibility to empower the first Americans . And I want to thank tonight the leaders and the members from both parties who have expressed to me an interest in working with us on these efforts . They are profoundly important . There is another part of our American community in trouble tonight , our family farmers . When I signed the farm bill in 1996 , I said there was great danger it would work well in good times but not in bad . Well , droughts , floods , and historically low prices have made these times very bad for the farmers . We must work together to strengthen the farm safety net , invest in land conservation , and create some new markets for them by expanding our programs for bio based fuels and products . Please , they need help . Let us do it together . Opportunity for all requires something else today , having access to a computer and knowing how to use it . That means we must close the digital divide between those who have got the tools and those who do not . Connecting classrooms and libraries to the Internet is crucial , but it is just a start . My budget ensures that all new teachers are trained to teach 21st century skills , and it creates technology centers in 1 , 000 communities to serve adults . This spring , I will invite high tech leaders to join me on another new markets tour , to close the digital divide and open opportunity for our people . I want to thank the high tech companies that already are doing so much in this area . I hope the new tax incentives I have proposed will get all the rest of them to join us . This is a national crusade . We have got to do this and do it quickly . Now , again I say to you , these are steps , but step by step , we can go a long way toward our goal of bringing opportunity to every community . To realize the full possibilities of this economy , we must reach beyond our own borders to shape the revolution that is tearing down barriers and building new networks among nations and individuals and economies and cultures globalization . It is the central reality of our time . Of course , change this profound is both liberating and threatening to people . But there is no turning back . And our open , creative society stands to benefit more than any other if we understand and act on the realities of interdependence . We have to be at the center of every vital global network , as a good neighbor and a good partner . We have to recognize that we cannot build our future without helping others to build theirs . The first thing we have got to do is to forge a new consensus on trade . Now , those of us who believe passionately in the power of open trade , we have to ensure that it lifts both our living standards and our values , never tolerating abusive child labor or a race to the bottom in the environment and worker protection . But others must recognize that open markets and rule based trade are the best engines we know of for raising living standards , reducing global poverty and environmental destruction , and assuring the free flow of ideas . I believe , as strongly tonight as I did the first day I got here , the only direction forward for America on trade the only direction for America on trade is to keep going forward . I ask you to help me forge that consensus . We have to make developing economies our partners in prosperity . That is why I would like to ask you again to finalize our groundbreaking African and Caribbean Basin trade initiatives . But globalization is about more than economics . Our purpose must be to bring together the world around freedom and democracy and peace and to oppose those who would tear it apart . Here are the fundamental challenges I believe America must meet to shape the 21st century world . First , we must continue to encourage our former adversaries , Russia and China , to emerge as stable , prosperous , democratic nations . Both are being held back today from reaching their full potential Russia by the legacy of communism , an economy in turmoil , a cruel and self defeating war in Chechnya China by the illusion that it can buy stability at the expense of freedom . But think how much has changed in the past decade 5 , 000 former Soviet nuclear weapons taken out of commission Russian soldiers actually serving with ours in the Balkans Russian people electing their leaders for the first time in 1 , 000 years and in China , an economy more open to the world than ever before . Of course , no one , not a single person in this chamber tonight can know for sure what direction these great nations will take . But we do know for sure that we can choose what we do . And we should do everything in our power to increase the chance that they will choose wisely , to be constructive members of our global community . That is why we should support those Russians who are struggling for a democratic , prosperous future continue to reduce both our nuclear arsenals and help Russia to safeguard weapons and materials that remain . And that is why I believe Congress should support the agreement we negotiated to bring China into the WTby passing permanent normal trade relations with China as soon as possible this year . I think you ought to do it for two reasons First of all , our markets are already open to China this agreement will open China s markets to us . And second , it will plainly advance the cause of peace in Asia and promote the cause of change in China . No , we do not know where it is going . All we can do is decide what we are going to do . But when all is said and done , we need to know we did everything we possibly could to maximize the chance that China will choose the right future . A second challenge we have got is to protect our own security from conflicts that pose the risk of wider war and threaten our common humanity . We cannot prevent every conflict or stop every outrage . But where our interests are at stake and we can make a difference , we should be , and we must be , peacemakers . We should be proud of our role in bringing the Middle East closer to a lasting peace , building peace in Northern Ireland , working for peace in East Timor and Africa , promoting reconciliation between Greece and Turkey and in Cyprus , working to defuse these crises between India and Pakistan , in defending human rights and religious freedom . And we should be proud of the men and women of our Armed Forces and those of our allies who stopped the ethnic cleansing in Kosovo , enabling a million people to return to their homes . When Slobodan Milosevic unleashed his terror on Kosovo , Captain John Cherrey was one of the brave airmen who turned the tide . And when another American plane was shot down over Serbia , he flew into the teeth of enemy air defenses to bring his fellow pilot home . Thanks to our Armed Forces skill and bravery , we prevailed in Kosovo without losing a single American in combat . I want to introduce Captain Cherrey to you . We honor Captain Cherrey , and we promise you , Captain , we will finish the job you began . Stand up so we can see you . A third challenge we have is to keep this inexorable march of technology from giving terrorists and potentially hostile nations the means to undermine our defenses . Keep in mind , the same technological advances that have shrunk cell phones to fit in the palms of our hands can also make weapons of terror easier to conceal and easier to use . We must meet this threat by making effective agreements to restrain nuclear and missile programs in North Korea , curbing the flow of lethal technology to Iran , preventing Iraq from threatening its neighbors , increasing our preparedness against chemical and biological attack , protecting our vital computer systems from hackers and criminals , and developing a system to defend against new missile threats , while working to preserve our ABM missile treaty with Russia . We must do all these things . I predict to you , when most of us are long gone but some time in the next 10 to 20 years , the major security threat this country will face will come from the enemies of the nation state , the narcotraffickers and the terrorists and the organized criminals who will be organized together , working together , with increasing access to ever more sophisticated chemical and biological weapons . And I want to thank the Pentagon and others for doing what they are doing right now to try to help protect us and plan for that , so that our defenses will be strong . I ask for your support to ensure they can succeed . I also want to ask you for a constructive bipartisan dialog this year to work to build a consensus which I hope will eventually lead to the ratification of the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty . I hope we can also have a constructive effort to meet the challenge that is presented to our planet by the huge gulf between rich and poor . We cannot accept a world in which part of humanity lives on the cutting edge of a new economy and the rest live on the bare edge of survival . I think we have to do our part to change that with expanded trade , expanded aid , and the expansion of freedom . This is interesting From Nigeria to Indonesia , more people got the right to choose their leaders in 1999 than in 1989 , when the Berlin Wall fell . We have got to stand by these democracies , including and especially tonight Colombia , which is fighting narcotraffickers , for its own people s lives and our children s lives . I have proposed a strong two year package to help Colombia win this fight . I want to thank the leaders in both parties in both Houses for listening to me and the President of Colombia about it . We have got to pass this . I want to ask your help . A lot is riding on it . And it is so important for the long term stability of our country and for what happens in Latin America . I also want you to know I am going to send you new legislation to go after what these drug barons value the most , their money . And I hope you will pass that as well . In a world where over a billion people live on less than a dollar a day , we also have got to do our part in the global endeavor to reduce the debts of the poorest countries , so they can invest in education , health care , and economic growth . That is what the Pope and other religious leaders have urged us to do . And last year , Congress made a downpayment on America s share . I ask you to continue that . I thank you for what you did and ask you to stay the course . I also want to say that America must help more nations to break the bonds of disease . Last year in Africa , 10 times as many people died from AIDS as were killed in wars 10 times . The budget I give you invests 150 million more in the fight against this and other infectious killers . And today I propose a tax credit to speed the development of vaccines for diseases like malaria , Tand AIDI ask the private sector and our partners around the world to join us in embracing this cause . We can save millions of lives together , and we ought to do it . I also want to mention our final challenge , which , as always , is the most important . I ask you to pass a national security budget that keeps our military the best trained and best equipped in the world , with heightened readiness and 21st century weapons , which raises salaries for our service men and women , which protects our veterans , which fully funds the diplomacy that keeps our soldiers out of war , which makes good on our commitment to our dues and arrears . I ask you to pass this budget . I also want to say something , if I might , very personal tonight . The American people watching us at home , with the help of all the commentators , can tell , from who stands and who sits and who claps and who does not , that there is still modest differences of opinion in this room . But I want to thank you for something , every one of you . I want to thank you for the extraordinary support you have given , Republicans and Democrats alike , to our men and women in uniform . I thank you for that . I also want to thank , especially , two people . First , I want to thank our Secretary of Defense , Bill Cohen , for symbolizing our bipartisan commitment to national security . Thank you , sir . Even more , I want to thank his wife , Janet , who , more than any other American citizen , has tirelessly traveled this world to show the support we all feel for our troops . Thank you , Janet Cohen . I appreciate that . Thank you . These are the challenges we have to meet so that we can lead the world toward peace and freedom in an era of globalization . I want to tell you that I am very grateful for many things as President . But one of the things I am grateful for is the opportunity that the Vice President and I have had to finally put to rest the bogus idea that you cannot grow the economy and protect the environment at the same time . As our economy has grown , we have rid more than 500 neighborhoods of toxic waste , ensured cleaner air and water for millions of people . In the past three months alone , we have helped preserve 40 million acres of roadless lands in the national forests , created three new national monuments . But as our communities grow , our commitment to conservation must continue to grow . Tonight I propose creating a permanent conservation fund , to restore wildlife , protect coastlines , save natural treasures , from the California redwoods to the Florida Everglades . This lands legacy endowment would represent by far the most enduring investment in land preservation ever proposed in this House . I hope we can get together with all the people with different ideas and do this . This is a gift we should give to our children and our grandchildren for all time , across party lines . We can make an agreement to do this . Last year the Vice President launched a new effort to make communities more liberal liv able liberal , I know . Wait a minute , I have got a punchline now . That is this year s agenda last year was livable , right That is what Senator Lott is going to say in the commentary afterwards to make our communities more livable . This is big business . This is a big issue . What does that mean You ask anybody that lives in an unlivable community , and they will tell you . They want their kids to grow up next to parks , not parking lots the parents do not have to spend all their time stalled in traffic when they could be home with their children . Tonight I ask you to support new funding for the following things , to make American communities more liberal livable . I have done pretty well with this speech , but I cannot say that . One , I want you to help us to do three things . We need more funding for advanced transit systems . We need more funding for saving open spaces in places of heavy development . And we need more funding this ought to have bipartisan appeal we need more funding for helping major cities around the Great Lakes protect their waterways and enhance their quality of life . We need these things , and I want you to help us . The greatest environmental challenge of the new century is global warming . The scientists tell us the 1990s were the hottest decade of the entire millennium . If we fail to reduce the emission of greenhouse gases , deadly heat waves and droughts will become more frequent , coastal areas will flood , and economies will be disrupted . That is going to happen , unless we act . Many people in the United States , some people in this chamber , and lots of folks around the world still believe you cannot cut greenhouse gas emissions without slowing economic growth . In the industrial age , that may well have been true . But in this digital economy , it is not true anymore . New technologies make it possible to cut harmful emissions and provide even more growth . For example , just last week , automakers unveiled cars that get 70 to 80 miles a gallon , the fruits of a unique research partnership between government and industry . And before you know it , efficient production of bio fuels will give us the equivalent of hundreds of miles from a gallon of gasoline . To speed innovation in these kind of technologies , I think we should give a major tax incentive to business for the production of clean energy and to families for buying energy saving homes and appliances and the next generation of superefficient cars when they hit the showroom floor . I also ask the auto industry to use the available technologies to make all new cars more fuel efficient right away . And I ask this Congress to do something else . Please help us make more of our clean energy technology available to the developing world . That will create cleaner growth abroad and a lot more new jobs here in the United States of America . In the new century , innovations in science and technology will be key not only to the health of the environment but to miraculous improvements in the quality of our lives and advances in the economy . Later this year , researchers will complete the first draft of the entire human genome , the very blueprint of life . It is important for all our fellow Americans to recognize that federal tax dollars have funded much of this research and that this and other wise investments in science are leading to a revolution in our ability to detect , treat , and prevent disease . For example , researchers have identified genes that cause Parkinson s , diabetes , and certain kinds of cancer . They are designing precision therapies that will block the harmful effect of these genes for good . Researchers already are using this new technique to target and destroy cells that cause breast cancer . Soon , we may be able to use it to prevent the onset of Alzheimer s . Scientists are also working on an artificial retina to help many blind people to see and listen to this microchips that would actually directly stimulate damaged spinal cords in a way that could allow people now paralyzed to stand up and walk . These kinds of innovations are also propelling our remarkable prosperity . Information technology only includes 8 percent of our employment but now accounts for a third of our economic growth along with jobs that pay , by the way , about 80 percent above the private sector average . Again , we ought to keep in mind , government funded research brought supercomputers , the Internet , and communications satellites into being . Soon researchers will bring us devices that can translate foreign languages as fast as you can talk , materials 10 times stronger than steel at a fraction of the weight , and this is unbelievable to me molecular computers the size of a teardrop with the power of today s fastest supercomputers . To accelerate the march of discovery across all these disciplines in science and technology , I ask you to support my recommendation of an unprecedented 3 billion in the 21st century research fund , the largest increase in civilian research in a generation . We owe it to our future . Now , these new breakthroughs have to be used in ways that reflect our values . First and foremost , we have to safeguard our citizens privacy . Last year we proposed to protect every citizen s medical record . This year we will finalize those rules . We have also taken the first steps to protect the privacy of bank and credit card records and other financial statements . Soon I will send legislation to you to finish that job . We must also act to prevent any genetic discrimination whatever by employers or insurers . I hope you will support that . These steps will allow us to lead toward the far frontiers of science and technology . They will enhance our health , the environment , the economy in ways we cannot even imagine today . But we all know that at a time when science , technology , and the forces of globalization are bringing so many changes into all our lives , it is more important than ever that we strengthen the bonds that root us in our local communities and in our national community . No tie binds different people together like citizen service . There is a new spirit of service in America , a movement we have tried to support with AmeriCorps , expanded Peace Corps , unprecedented new partnerships with businesses , foundations , community groups partnerships , for example , like the one that enlisted 12 , 000 companies which have now moved 650 , 000 of our fellow citizens from welfare to work partnerships to battle drug abuse , AIDteach young people to read , save America s treasures , strengthen the arts , fight teen pregnancy , prevent violence among young people , promote racial healing . The American people are working together . But we should do more to help Americans help each other . First , we should help faith based organizations to do more to fight poverty and drug abuse and help people get back on the right track , with initiatives like Second Chance Homes that do so much to help unwed teen mothers . Second , we should support Americans who tithe and contribute to charities but do not earn enough to claim a tax deduction for it . Tonight I propose new tax incentives that would allow low and middle income citizens who do not itemize to get that deduction . It is nothing but fair , and it will get more people to give . We should do more to help new immigrants to fully participate in our community . That is why I recommend spending more to teach them civics and English . And since everybody in our community counts , we have got to make sure everyone is counted in this year s census . Within 10 years just 10 years there will be no majority race in our largest state of California . In a little more than 50 years , there will be no majority race in America . In a more interconnected world , this diversity can be our greatest strength . Just look around this chamber . Look around . We have members in this Congress from virtually every racial , ethnic , and religious background . And I think you would agree that America is stronger because of it . You also have to agree that all those differences you just clapped for all too often spark hatred and division even here at home . Just in the last couple of years , we have seen a man dragged to death in Texas just because he was black . We saw a young man murdered in Wyoming just because he was gay . Last year we saw the shootings of African Americans , Asian Americans , and Jewish children just because of who they were . This is not the American way , and we must draw the line . I ask you to draw that line by passing without delay the Hate Crimes Prevention Act and the Employment Non Discrimination Act . And I ask you to reauthorize the Violence Against Women Act . Finally tonight , I propose the largest ever investment in our civil rights laws for enforcement , because no American should be subjected to discrimination in finding a home , getting a job , going to school , or securing a loan . Protections in law should be protections in fact . Last February , because I thought this was so important , I created the White House Office of One America to promote racial reconciliation . That is what one of my personal heroes , Hank Aaron , has done all his life . From his days as our all time home run king to his recent acts of healing , he has always brought people together . We should follow his example , and we are honored to have him with us tonight . Stand up , Hank Aaron . I just want to say one more thing about this , and I want every one of you to think about this the next time you get mad at one of your colleagues on the other side of the aisle . This fall , at the White House , Hillary had one of her millennium dinners , and we had this very distinguished scientist there , who is an expert in this whole work in the human genome . And he said that we are all , regardless of race , genetically 99 . 9 percent the same . Now , you may find that uncomfortable when you look around here . But it is worth remembering . We can laugh about this , but you think about it . Modern science has confirmed what ancient faiths have always taught the most important fact of life is our common humanity . Therefore , we should do more than just tolerate our diversity we should honor it and celebrate it . My fellow Americans , every time I prepare for the State of the Union , I approach it with hope and expectation and excitement for our nation . But tonight is very special , because we stand on the mountaintop of a new millennium . Behind us we can look back and see the great expanse of American achievement , and before us we can see even greater , grander frontiers of possibility . We should , all of us , be filled with gratitude and humility for our present progress and prosperity . We should be filled with awe and joy at what lies over the horizon . And we should be filled with absolute determination to make the most of it . You know , when the Framers finished crafting our Constitution in Philadelphia , Benjamin Franklin stood in Independence Hall , and he reflected on the carving of the sun that was on the back of a chair he saw . The sun was low on the horizon . So he said this he said , I have often wondered whether that sun was rising or setting . Today , Franklin said , I have the happiness to know it is a rising sun . Today , because each succeeding generation of Americans has kept the fire of freedom burning brightly , lighting those frontiers of possibility , we all still bask in the glow and the warmth of Franklin s rising sun . After 224 years , the American revolution continues . We remain a new nation . And as long as our dreams outweigh our memories , America will be forever young . That is our destiny . And this is our moment . Thank you , God bless you , and God bless America .<speech_sep>This is one of those occasions where I really feel that all that needs to be said has already been said . I thank Catherine and David for introducing me , for all the schoolchildren of Northern Ireland who are here today , and for all whom they represent . A big part of peace is children growing up safely , learning together , and growing together . I thank Patrick Dougan and Ronnie Lewis for their remarks , for their work here , for all the members of the Mackie team who are with us today in welcoming us to this factory . I was hoping we could have an event like this in Northern Ireland at a place where people work and reach out to the rest of the world in a positive way , because a big part of peace is working together for family and community and for the welfare of the common enterprise . It is good to be among the people of Northern Ireland who have given so much to America and the world , and good to be here with such a large delegation of my fellow Americans , including of course my wife . And I see the Secretary of Commerce here and the Ambassador to Great Britain , and a number of others . But we have quite a large delegation from both parties in the United States Congress , so we have sort of got a truce of our own going on here today . And I had like to ask the Members of Congress who have come all the way from Washington , Dto stand up and be recognized . Would you all stand Many of you perhaps know that one in four of America s Presidents trace their roots to Ireland s shores , beginning with Andrew Jackson , the son of immigrants from Carrickfergus , to John Fitzgerald Kennedy , whose forebears came from County Wexford . I know I am only the latest in this time honored tradition , but I am proud to be the first sitting American President to make it back to Belfast . At this holiday season all around the world , the promise of peace is in the air . The barriers of the cold war are giving way to a global village where communication and cooperation are the order of the day . From South Africa to the Middle East , and now to troubled Bosnia , conflicts long thought impossible to solve are moving along the road to resolution . Once bitter foes are clasping hands and changing history , and long suffering people are moving closer to normal lives . Here in Northern Ireland , you are making a miracle , a miracle symbolized by those two children who held hands and told us what this whole thing is all about . In the land of the harp and the fiddle , the fife and the lambeg drum , two proud traditions are coming together in the harmonies of peace . The cease fire and negotiations have sparked a powerful transformation . Mackie s plant is a symbol of Northern Ireland s rebirth . It has long been a symbol of world class engineering . The textile machines you make permit people to weave disparate threads into remarkable fabrics . That is now what you must do here with the people of Northern Ireland . Here we lie along the peace line , the wall of steel and stone separating Protestant from Catholic . But today , under the leadership of Pat Dougan , you are bridging the divide , overcoming a legacy of discrimination where fair employment and integration are the watchwords of the future . On this shop floor , men and women of both traditions are working together to achieve common goals . Peace , once a distant dream , is now making a difference in everyday life in this land . Soldiers have left the streets of Belfast many have gone home . People can go to the pub or the store without the burden of the search or the threat of a bomb . As barriers disappear along the border , families and communities divided for decades are becoming whole once more . This year in Armagh on Patrick s Day , Protestant and Catholic children led the parade together for the first time since The Troubles began . A bystander s words marked the wonder of the occasion when he said , Even the normal is beginning to seem normal . The economic rewards of peace are evident as well . Unemployment has fallen here to its lowest level in 14 years , while retail sales and investment are surging . For from the gleaming city center to the new shop fronts of Belfast , to the Enterprise Center in East Belfast , business is thriving , and opportunities are expanding . With every extra day that the guns are still , business confidence grows stronger , and the promise of prosperity grows as well . As the shroud of terror melts away , Northern Ireland s beauty has been revealed again to all the world , the castles and coasts , the Giant s Causeway , the lush green hills , the high white cliffs , a magical backdrop to your greatest asset which I saw all along the way from the airport here today , the warmth and good feeling of your people . Visitors are now coming in record numbers . Indeed , today the air route between Belfast and London is the second busiest in all of Europe . I want to honor those whose courage and vision have brought us to this point Prime Minister Major , Prime Minister Bruton , and before him , Prime Minister Reynolds , laid the background and the basis for this era of reconciliation . From the Downing Street Declaration to the joint framework document , they altered the course of history . Now , just in the last few days , by launching the twin track initiative , they have opened a promising new gateway to a just and lasting peace . Foreign Minister Spring , Sir Patrick Mayhew , David Trimble , and John Hume all have labored to realize the promise of peace . And Gerry Adams , along with Loyalist leaders such as David Ervine and Gary McMichael , helped to silence the guns on the streets and to bring about the first peace in a generation . But most of all , America salutes all the people of Northern Ireland who have shown the world in concrete ways that here the will for peace is now stronger than the weapons of war . With mixed sporting events encouraging competition on the playing field , not the battlefield , with women s support groups , literacy programs , job training centers that served both communities , these and countless other initiatives bolster the foundations of peace as well . Last year s cease fire of the Irish Republican Army , joined by the combined Loyalist Military Command , marked a turning point in the history of Northern Ireland . Now is the time to sustain that momentum and lock in the gains of peace . Neither community wants to go back to the violence of the past . The children told of that today . Both parties must do their part to move this process forward now . Let me begin by saying that the search for common ground demands the courage of an open mind . This twin track initiative gives the parties a chance to begin preliminary talks in ways in which all views will be represented and all voices will be heard . It also establishes an international body to address the issue of arms decommissioning . I hope the parties will seize this opportunity . Engaging in honest dialog is not an act of surrender , it is an act of strength and common sense . Moving from cease fire to peace requires dialog . For 25 years now , the history of Northern Ireland has been written in the blood of its children and their parents . The cease fire turned the page on that history . It must not be allowed to turn back . There must also be progress away from the negotiating table . Violence has lessened , but it has not disappeared . The leaders of the four main churches recently condemned the so called punishment beatings and called for an end to such attacks . I add my voice to theirs . As the church leaders said , this is a time when the utmost efforts on all sides are needed to build a peaceful and confident community in the future . But true peace requires more than a treaty , even more than the absence of violence . Those who have suffered most in the fighting must share fairly in the fruits of renewal . The frustration that gave rise to violence must give way to faith in the future . The United States will help to secure the tangible benefits of peace . Ours is the first American administration ever to support in the Congress the International Fund for Ireland , which has become an engine for economic development and for reconciliation . We will continue to encourage trade and investment and to help end the cycle of unemployment . We are proud to support Northern Ireland . You have given America a very great deal . Irish Protestant and Irish Catholic together have added to America s strength . From our battle for independence down to the present day , the Irish have not only fought in our wars , they have built our Nation , and we owe you a very great debt . Let me say that of all the gifts we can offer in return , perhaps the most enduring and the most precious is the example of what is possible when people find unity and strength in their diversity . We know from our own experience even today how hard that is to do . After all , we fought a great Civil War over the issue of race and slavery in which hundreds of thousands of our people were killed . Today , in one of our counties alone , in Los Angeles , there are over 150 different ethnic and racial groups represented . We know we can become stronger if we bridge our differences . But we learned in our own Civil War that that has to begin with a change of the heart . I grew up in the American South , in one of the States that tried to break from the American Union . My forebears on my father s side were soldiers in the Confederate Army . I was reading the other day a book about our first Governor after the Civil War who fought for the Union Army and who lost members of his own family . They lived the experience so many of you have lived . When this Governor took office and looked out over a sea of his fellow citizens who fought on the other side , he said these words We have all done wrong . No one can say his heart is altogether clean and his hands altogether pure . Thus , as we wish to be forgiven , let us forgive those who have sinned against us and ours . That was the beginning of America s reconciliation , and it must be the beginning of Northern Ireland s reconciliation . It is so much easier to believe that our differences matter more than what we have in common . It is easier , but it is wrong . We all cherish family and faith , work and community . We all strive to live lives that are free and honest and responsible . We all want our children to grow up in a world where their talents are matched by their opportunities . And I believe those values are just as strong in County Londonderry as they are in Londonderry , New Hampshire in Belfast , Northern Ireland as in Belfast , Maine . I am proud to be of Ulster Scots stock . I am proud to be , also , of Irish stock . I share these roots with millions and millions of Americans , now over 40 million Americans . And we rejoice at things being various , as Louis MacNeice once wrote . It is one of the things that makes America special . Because our greatness flows from the wealth of our diversity as well as the strength of the ideals we share in common , we feel bound to support others around the world who seek to bridge their own divides . This is an important part of our country s mission on the eve of the 21st century , because we know that the chain of peace that protects us grows stronger with every new link that is forged . For the first time in half a century now , we can put our children to bed at night knowing that the nuclear weapons of the former Soviet Union are no longer pointed at those children . In South Africa , the long night of apartheid has given way to a new freedom for all peoples . In the Middle East , Arabs and Israelis are stepping beyond war to peace in an area where many believed peace would never come . In Haiti , a brutal dictatorship has given way to a fragile new democracy . In Europe , the dream of a stable , undivided free continent seems finally within reach as the people of Bosnia have the first real hope for peace since the terrible fighting began there nearly 4 years ago . The United States looks forward to working with our allies here in Europe and others to help the people in Bosnia , the Muslims , the Croats , the Serbs , to move beyond their divisions and their destructions to make the peace agreement they have made a reality in the lives of their people . Those who work for peace have got to support one another . We know that when leaders stand up for peace , they place their forces on the line and sometimes their very lives on the line , as we learned so recently in the tragic murder of the brave Prime Minister of Israel . For , just as peace has its pioneers , peace will always have its rivals . Even when children stand up and say what these children said today , there will always be people who , deep down inside , will never be able to give up the past . Over the last 3 years , I have had the privilege of meeting with and closely listening to both Nationalists and Unionists from Northern Ireland , and I believe that the greatest struggle you face now is not between opposing ideas or opposing interests . The greatest struggle you face is between those who deep down inside are inclined to be peacemakers and those who deep down inside cannot yet embrace the cause of peace , between those who are in the ship of peace and those who are trying to sink it . Old habits die hard . There will always be those who define the worth of their lives not by who they are but by who they are not , not by what they are for but by what they are against . They will never escape the dead end street of violence . But you , the vast majority , Protestant and Catholic alike , must not allow the ship of peace to sink on the rocks of old habits and hard grudges . You must stand firm against terror . You must say to those who still would use violence for political objectives , You are the past . Your day is over . Violence has no place at the table of democracy and no role in the future of this land . By the same token , you must also be willing to say to those who renounce violence and who do take their own risks for peace that they are entitled to be full participants in the democratic process . Those who do show the courage to break with the past are entitled to their stake in the future . As leaders for peace become invested in the process , as leaders make compromises and risk the backlash , people begin more and more I have seen this all over the world they begin more and more to develop a common interest in each other s success , in standing together rather than standing apart . They realize that the sooner they get to true peace , with all the rewards it brings , the sooner it will be easy to discredit and destroy the forces of destruction . We will stand with those who takes risks for peace in Northern Ireland and around the world . I pledge that we will do all we can , through the International Fund for Ireland and in many other ways , to ease your load . If you walk down this path continually , you will not walk alone . We are entering an era of possibility unparalleled in all of human history . If you enter that era determined to build a new age of peace , the United States of America will proudly stand with you . But at the end of the day , as with all free people , your future is for you to decide . Your destiny is for you to determine . Only you can decide between division and unity , between hard lives and high hopes . Only you can create a lasting peace . It takes courage to let go of familiar divisions . It takes faith to walk down a new road . But when we see the bright gaze of these children , we know the risk is worth the reward . I have been so touched by the thousands of letters I have received from schoolchildren here , telling me what peace means to them . One young girl from Ballymena wrote , and I quote , It is not easy to forgive and forget , especially for those who have lost a family member or a close friend . However , if people could look to the future with hope instead of the past with fear , we can only be moving in the right direction . I could not have said it nearly as well . I believe you can summon the strength to keep moving forward . After all , you have come so far already . You have braved so many dangers . You have endured so many sacrifices . Surely , there can be no turning back . But peace must be waged with a warrior s resolve , bravely , proudly , and relentlessly , secure in the knowledge of the single greatest difference between war and peace In peace , everybody can win . I was overcome today , when I landed in my plane and I drove with Hillary up the highway to come here , by the phenomenal beauty of the place and the spirit and the good will of the people . Northern Ireland has a chance not only to begin anew but to be a real inspiration to the rest of the world , a model of progress through tolerance . Let us join our efforts together as never before to make that dream a reality . Let us join our prayers in this season of peace for a future of peace in this good land . Thank you very much .<speech_sep>Good evening . This afternoon in this room , from this chair , I testified before the Office of Independent Counsel and the grand jury . I answered their questions truthfully , including questions about my private life , questions no American citizen would ever want to answer . Still I must take complete responsibility for all my actions , both public and private . And that is why I am speaking to you tonight . As you know , in a deposition in January I was asked questions about my relationship with Monica Lewinsky . While my answers were legally accurate , I did not volunteer information . Indeed , I did have a relationship with Lewinsky that was not appropriate . In fact , it was wrong . It constituted a critical lapse in judgment and a personal failure on my part for which I am solely and completely responsible . But I told the grand jury today , and I say to you now , that at no time did I ask anyone to lie , to hide or destroy evidence , or to take any other unlawful action . I know that my public comments and my silence about this matter gave a false impression . I misled people , including even my wife . I deeply regret that . I can only tell you I was motivated by many factors first , by a desire to protect myself from the embarrassment of my own conduct . I was also very concerned about protecting my family . The fact that these questions were being asked in a politically inspired lawsuit which has since been dismissed was a consideration , too . In addition , I had real and serious concerns about an Independent Counsel investigation that began with private business dealings 20 years ago , dealings , I might add , about which an independent Federal agency found no evidence of any wrongdoing by me or my wife over 2 years ago . The Independent Counsel investigation moved on to my staff and friends , then into my private life . And now the investigation itself is under investigation . This has gone on too long , cost too much , and hurt too many innocent people . Now this matter is between me , the two people I love most , my wife and our daughter , and our God . I must put it right , and I am prepared to do whatever it takes to do so . Nothing is more important to me personally . But it is private . And I intend to reclaim my family life for my family . It is nobody s business but ours . Even Presidents have private lives . It is time to stop the pursuit of personal destruction and the prying into private lives and get on with our national life . Our country has been distracted by this matter for too long . And I take my responsibility for my part in all of this this is all I can do . Now it is time in fact , it is past time to move on . We have important work to do , real opportunities to seize , real problems to solve , real security matters to face . And so , tonight I ask you to turn away from the spectacle of the past 7 months , to repair the fabric of our national discourse , and to return our attention to all the challenges and all the promise of the next American century . Thank you for watching , and good night .<speech_sep>Thank you very much , thank you . Yandle , I never had a better introduction . Before we thank anyone else , I think all of us should acknowledge that it was America s families who have beaten the gridlock in Washington to pass family leave , people like this fine woman all over America who talked to Members of Congress , both Democrat and Republican , who laid their plight out , who asked that their voices be heard . When Senator Gore and I ran in the election last year , we published a book called Putting People First . I am very proud that the first bill I am to sign as President truly puts people first . I do want to thank the United States Congress for moving expeditiously on this matter and for doing it before their first recess so that every Member of Congress who voted for this bill can go home and say , We are up there working on your problems and your promise , trying to make a better future for you . This sends a clearer signal than any words any of us could utter , that we have tried to give this Government back to the American people . And I am very appreciative that the Congress has moved so rapidly on this bill . There are many , many Members of Congress here and many others who are not here who played a major role in this legislation . Time does not permit me to mention them all , but I do want to thank the Senate majority leader for his heroic efforts in the 11th hour to make sure we passed this bill Senator Kennedy and Senator Dodd for their passionate and years long commitment to this effort . I want to thank the Speaker , Speaker Foley , and Congressman Ford , the chairman of the committee that had jurisdiction over this bill , and Congresswoman Pat Schroeder and all the other Democrats who worked on this bill . But I want to acknowledge , too , consistent with the promise I made in my Inaugural to reach out to members of both parties who would try to push for progress , that this bill also had passionate support among Republicans . My old colleague in the Governors Association , Senator Kit Bond from Missouri , I thank you for your leadership . Senator Jeffords and Senator Coats I do not believe are here , but they supported this bill strongly and Congresswoman Marge Roukema from New Jersey , her commitment on this was unwavering Congresswoman Susan Molinari from New York and many other Republicans voted for , spoke for , and worked for this bill . I thank them , the subcommittee chairs who are here , and all the others who worked so hard to make this bill a real live promise kept for the Congress to the people of the United States . Family medical leave has always had the support of a majority of Americans , from every part of the country , from every walk of life , from both political parties . But some people opposed it . And they were powerful , and it took 8 years and two vetoes to make this legislation the law of the land . Now millions of our people will no longer have to choose between their jobs and their families . The law guarantees the right of up to 12 weeks of unpaid leave per year when it is urgently needed at home to care for a newborn child or an ill family member . This bill will strengthen our families , and I believe it will strengthen our businesses and our economy as well . I have spent an enormous amount of time in the last 12 years in the factories and businesses of this country talking to employers and employees , watching the way people work , often working with them . And I know that men and women are more productive when they are sure they will not lose their jobs because they are trying to be good parents , good children . Our businesses should not lose the services of these dedicated Americans . And over the long run , the lessons of the most productive companies in the world , here at home and around the world , are that those who put their people first are those who will triumph in the global economy . The business leaders who have already instituted family and medical leave understand this , and I am very proud of some of the business leaders who are here today who represent not only themselves but others all across America who were ahead of all of us who make laws in doing what is right by our families . Family and medical leave is a matter of pure common sense and a matter of common decency . It will provide Americans what they need most peace of mind . Never again will parents have to fear losing their jobs because of their families . Just a week ago , I spoke to 10 people in families who had experienced the kinds of problems Yandle has talked about today . Vice President Gore and I talked to people all across America who moved us deeply . We were saddened to hear their stories , but today all of us can be happy to think of their future . Now that we have won this difficult battle , let me ask all of you to think about what we must do ahead to put the public interest ahead of special interest , to pass a budget which will grow this economy and shrink our deficit , and to go on about the business of putting families first . There is a lot more we need to do to help people trapped in welfare move to work and independence to strengthen child support enforcement to reward those who work 40 hours a week and have children at home with an increase in the earned income tax credit so we can really say we are rewarding work instead of dependence to immunize all the children of this country so more parents will not have to take advantage of family leave because their children will be well and strong and healthy . Let all of us who care about our families , our people , the strength of our economy , and the future of our Nation put our partisan and other interests aside and be inspired by this great victory today to have others when Congress returns to this city and we go on about the people s business . Thank you very much .<speech_sep>It is wonderful to be back in New Orleans and in Louisiana and to have the first chance I have had since the election to thank you for your support , your electoral votes , and the education you gave me on my many trips here during the campaign last year . I am glad to be back on this campus . I want to thank your student body president , Robert Styron . I thought he gave a good speech . I think he is got a future in politics , do not you And Chancellor O Brien . I want to thank Senator Breaux for his kind remarks and for his leadership of the Democratic Leadership Council . I want to acknowledge the presence here of Senator Johnston and many members of the Louisiana House and many other Members of the United States Congress , along with many others who are here with the Democratic Leadership Council , including my good friend and former colleague , the Governor of New Mexico , Bruce King , who is here . There are two members of my Cabinet here , the Secretary of Education , Dick Riley , and the Secretary of Agriculture , Mike Espy , also a DLC Vice Chair . I want to thank all the people who are here representing volunteer organizations . I met with some young people just before I came in here who are scattered around near me from Benjamin Franklin High School just across the way . Absolutely no enthusiasm in that place . From the Delta Service Corps . , from VISTfrom Summerbridge , from Teach for America , we also have some students here , apart from all of you from UNwe have some students here who have worked in service projects at Xavier University and at Tulane . We also have people here who have been involved in service for a long time from ACTIOfrom the Older Americans Volunteer Program , from the National Association of Senior Companions and Foster Grandparents and the National Association of Retired Senior Volunteers . All these people I am very grateful to . I had like to just acknowledge in general the people who are here from law enforcement organizations and firefighters organizations and public employees and teachers groups who have helped us on this national service project . And I want to say a special word of thanks to three other people . First of all , Gen . David Jones , a former Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff who has worked very hard helping us put together this program , who is here . General Jones , thank you for being here . Secondly , a remarkable gentleman from New Jersey , an immensely successful businessman who retired early and is devoting his entire life to community service to rebuild the lives and the neighborhoods of the people in his community in New Jersey and now helping others around the country , a founding Member of the Points of Light Foundation , Ray Chambers , who is here . And I had like to pay a little special attention to two members of Congress who are not here and to one who is , for their long work on the whole idea of national service . The two in the Senate who are not here are Senator Harris Wofford from Pennsylvania and Senator Sam Nunn from Georgia . And then Representative Dave McCurdy from Oklahoma , thank you for all of the work you have done on this over the years . I am glad to be here . You know , when I come down here I always sort of relax . I do not know why that is . I timed it just in time for the Jazz Festival , but I left my saxophone at the White House . This is the 100th day of my administration . In Washington , some say it marks a milestone . But in many ways it is just another day at the office for what we are trying to do in changing America . In the last 99 days we have worked relentlessly to address the pressing and long ignored needs of the American people and to bring to the Government something it has not seen in a long time an acknowledgment that bold action is needed , and needed now , to secure and enlarge America s future , and that in order to do it we not only have to change programs , we have to change the way the Government works and engage the energies of the American people in the process . In the last 100 days I think we have begun to change the direction in which our country has been going for a long time , and to go toward a new direction more like the one the American people demanded last November . We have also started an unprecedented debate in our Nation s capital about big ideas and better lives across our Nation , ideas that in many cases were shaped and nurtured by some of the people who are here today , as Senator Breaux said earlier , the members of the Democratic Leadership Council , of which I am proud to be a founding member . Unlike most organizations , the DLC has done more than just talk about the problems in our country . It has made an honest effort to develop real ideas about how to restore the American economy , and make the Government work , and rebuild the confidence and the link that exists between the American people and their Government when things are at their best here . And it is been a laboratory for experimentation and solutions . During my years with the DLC we really tried to refine our philosophy of what it would mean to take not only the Democratic Party but the United States of America in a new direction , to make our country work again and to reward work and family , to encourage education and enterprise , to establish what I have often called a new covenant with the American people Creating opportunity but demanding responsibility from all so that once again we could be a true American community where we know and believe and live as if we are all in this together . This group has conceived many of the ideas that I have advocated since I have been in Washington from setting a limit on welfare and putting people to work to police reform and community policing to rewarding work of low income working people by having an earned income tax credit that would lift the working poor with children out of poverty . So we could say if you work 40 hours a week in this country , you have a child in the house , you ought not to be poor . These are the kinds of things that this organization has done . They helped to develop the idea I want to talk to you today about that has so much to do with the future of the young people here and throughout our country national service . This is an organization about ideas . Now in Washington , as you might imagine , we do not always agree with one another . And that is good that is why we have got a system where the Government s divided up and we have two parties and we have people fighting all the time as long as it is about ideas . But too often we have seen that the debate over big ideas gets mired in petty politics . I know one thing The American people are tired of gridlock and petty politics . If we are going to fight , they want us to fight over ideas and the future of this country . In the past 99 days we tried to address the problems the American people told me they wanted to be addressed . We focused more than anything else on the economy , passing the outline of a budget that will reduce the deficit by more than 500 billion , increase investment in education and technologies and the things that will create the economy of the 21st century that all of you need so that you will have good and decent jobs and a decent future laying the groundwork for a more prosperous tomorrow . Just in 100 days we have announced a policy to help to convert the defense cutbacks and the economic opportunities for people who are losing their jobs because of the military cutbacks to take a new direction in technology to create more opportunities for our people to be more aggressive in preserving the environment , but do it in a way that creates jobs , not a way that costs jobs to have a trade policy that will really reflect our common interest with other nations and expanding jobs and opportunities everywhere . We have begun the long overdue renovation of the American economic base . The question now , unlike 100 days ago , the question is now not whether we are going to reduce the deficit but how and how much . The question now is not whether the Government will have a new partnership with the private sector to shape the economy but exactly what the details will be and how much our part will be . We have also taken on the issue of health care , something million of Americans cried out for last year . I got a letter today from a young woman I shook hands with whose literally , her life is on the line , and she cannot get health insurance . It is wrong that in this Nation we are the only advanced country in the world with 34 million people without health insurance . It is wrong that millions of Americans cannot change their jobs without losing their health insurance because they or a child or a spouse has been sick . It is wrong that the price of health care goes up 2 . 5 times the rate of inflation every year . And it is wrong that we spend 30 percent more of our income than any other country on Earth on health care and have less to show for it . But it is also wrong to assume that there is some magic , quick answer . That is why we have been working with a task force headed by the First Lady and over 400 people from all aspects of health care to do something about this . But now , for the American people the issue is no longer whether we are going to address the health care crisis , whether we are going to provide security to hard working middle class Americans , whether we are going to cover the people who are not covered , whether we are going to control costs , but how are we going to do it and how fast and when are we going to begin . I hope the answer is soon . And not too soon is soon enough for me . There was a lot of discussion last year about how bad the Government was , and it did not work , and it was bloated , it needed a change . Look at the last 100 days I have tried to set an example by offering a budget to reduce the White House staff by 25 percent by putting the lid on and reducing the Federal bureaucratic expenses , the administrative expenses of the Federal Government by over 10 billion by moving dramatically to reduce the influence of special interests on Executive Branch appointments by having the toughest ethics laws and restrictions on people becoming lobbyists for other interests when they leave the payroll of the President of the United States by asking the Vice President to share the most sweeping review of the way the Federal Government works in a generation , with a promise of real reform and reinventing Government , something else this organization has long believed in . We are moving . And the Congress is moving to join . The Congress has voted to cut the administrative costs of running the Congress , something many of you never thought you would see happen . They did that . The House of Representatives voted yesterday to give the President of the United States a modified line item veto , and I hope the Senate will follow their lead . I hope soon they will send to my desk the motor voter bill which will make it easier for young people and other people to vote and participate in their country s political process . And there will be campaign finance reform and lobby reform legislation and a crime bill that will put more police on the street and give us the capacity we need to take our communities back . These things are going on . The question is no longer whether we are going to reform the way Government works but how fast and how much and how well . And those are the right questions , my fellow Americans , good questions to ask . And now I come to the last , and in many ways the most important issue that we have tried to address the economy , yes health care , yes reform in the way the Government works , yes but also what about the American people . How can each American make a contribution How can each American do the work that all Americans must , taking responsibility for himself or herself and growing up into a vibrant community We have tried to address those issues as well . The buzz word now people use is empowerment . I used to call it responsibility . I often have said , and I want to reiterate today , the United States Government cannot create an opportunity for anyone who will not be responsible enough to seize it . Opportunity is a two way street and requires responsibility . That is the only way we will ever rebuild the American community . In the days and months ahead , you will see the Secretary of Education talk about his remarkable education program to provide tougher national standards in education but also to give people at the grass roots level more flexibility in making public education work . You will see the Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development talk about how we can empower even the poorest Americans to start their own businesses , save their own money , and take control of their own future . You will see other people talking about how we can reform the welfare system . All of these things are at the core of the notion that we ought to make it possible for every American to live up to the fullest of his or her Godgiven ability . And that is what in the end national service is all about helping ourselves and helping each other at the same time . On this 100th day of my administration I want to recommit myself and those who work with me to the values that have made our Nation without peer in all human history , those of opportunity , responsibility , community , and respect for one another . Today I want to propose applying those values to a revolution of opportunity for our hard pressed families and for those who have been left out . As a first step we are going to ease the terms of college loans , helping students from middle and lower middle income families to clear a major path to the American dream , the path of higher education . In return we will demand responsibility from young people . We will make it easier to borrow money and much easier to pay it off , but this time you have to pay it off . You cannot just default on the loan . And we will also offer the young people of America the opportunity of paying their loans back by serving their communities in a new program of national service . In just a few days I will send to the Congress two bills containing our proposals , first to strengthen college opportunity and to establish national service . Together they will revive America s commitment to community and make affordable the cost of a college education for every American . It is no secret that over the last 10 or 12 years the cost of a college education is about the only essential think that is gone up even more rapidly than health care costs . And middle class parents , and even upper middle class parents , not to mention lower income people , have borne the burden , paying now about five percent of median income just to put one child through a 4 year in State public college . It costs an average of over 5 , 200 a year for that education . That means families are depleting savings and many students are faced with cutting back to a part time course load or having to drop out simply because of the cost of a college education . A college dropout is now more than twice the high school dropout rate . We cannot afford that , and we can do better . I propose a new way to finance college for millions of students who seek loans every year . We call it an EXCEL account . With it , students can repay the loans they take out not with a percentage of the loan they borrowed but with a percentage of their actual earnings . Now think about that . For students driven by debt into careers with high pay and low satisfaction this can be very liberating . Take a student torn , for example , between pursuing a career in teaching and corporate law . This student now can at least make the career choice based on what he or she wants to do and not the size of the outstanding student loan , because we propose to let everybody have the option of paying the student loan back based on how much they earn not just how much they owe . That is an incredible incentive . However , under the current system , as many of you know , students faced with big bills or just inconvenient responsibilities have too often taken the irresponsible route and defaulted on their loans or have been found in default because they could not find a job . Often times there is no serious effort to collect the loan because the Government guarantees 90 percent of it . So if the bank makes the loan , it costs more than 10 percent to go collect it . What is the result The taxpayers every year pay about 3 billion on other people s loans , money that could be spent on your education , on the schools here , on the future of the children here , just for bad loans . It is not right . Under our system , the Department of Education would engage the Internal Revenue Service . We would have the payroll records . And you would not be able to beat the bill because you would have to pay the loan back as a percentage of your income , if you choose , but you had have to pay it because you pay taxes and because we have your records and because you will not be able to get out of it . And that is the right thing to do . But these EXCEL accounts are just the beginning . We hope they will lead more and more Americans not only to seize the opportunity of a college education and to exert a stronger sense of responsibility but also to seek to serve their communities through a program of national service . It was Thomas Jefferson who first told the American people in essence that the more you know , the more you owe . In his words , and I quote , A debt of service is due from every man to his country proportioned to the bounties which nature and fortune have measured to him . This statement reminds us that values never go out of fashion , that civic responsibility is as good for democracy today as it was when Thomas Jefferson said that , and that if you really want to be the best citizen of your country , you have to give something back to your country . With national service , we can literally open a new world to a new generation of Americans where higher learning goes hand in hand with the higher purpose of addressing our unmet needs , our educational , our social , our environmental needs , to secure the future that we all will share . National service will mark the start of a new era for America in which every citizen , every one of you , can become an agent of change armed with the knowledge and experience that a college education brings , and ready to transform the world in which we live , city by city , community by community , block by block . I say to you , we need you . You know , there is a lot of talk in America today , and I spend hours every week worrying about the effect that automation and technology is having on employment . Indeed , as we see the productivity of American enterprises rise , their need for workers goes down because they can do more with computes that they used to do with people . So people ask me all the time , where will we find the jobs for this new generation of Americans How can we drive this unemployment rate down But if you look around this country at all the human problems , all the homeless people , all the environmental waste dumps in our cities and our rural areas , all the problems that we have got in every community in America , and see all the kids that are in trouble 15 million of them at risk and needing somebody to pay attention to you know where the work needs to be . Late last night when I was preparing to come down here , I took a little time off at my desk and I read the letters that my staff had given me . And I got a letter from a woman who grew up with me . I have known here since we were in grade school . In this letter she said , You know , someone asked me a couple of days ago How are we going to save all these kids in this country that are in trouble And she said , Without even thinking , I blurted out , the same way we lost them , one at a time . And so today my fellow Americans , I issue a call to national service , to Americans young and old , Democrats and Republicans , white , black , Hispanic , Asian and you name it , all of us that make up this great Nation . I call you to national service because it is only that together we can advance a tradition rooted in our people s history , helping our people to help themselves . And with national service we can rejoin the citizens in communities of this country , bonding each to the other with the glue of common purpose and real patriotism . We have many young people here today , students of this place of higher learning where we are gathered . In you I know I see the builders of tomorrow . And I say to you , as good as the education is here and at the other great institutions represented here today and all across America , the power of academic learning is incomplete unless every American can share in it . That is the only way we can lift our whole country up . I say to you further that our country needs you . We need your knowledge and your initiative and your energy . We need you because you are still stripped and free of the cynicism that has paralyzed too many of your parents and your grandparents , and led us to spend too much time talking about what we cannot do instead of seizing what we can . You are not afflicted by that , and I pray you never will be . We need to make sure that we can use your energies and your talents . One way is by making sure that the low wages that public service often offers will not be a route to the poorhouse for someone with college loans . As I said , we are going to make it easier for you to pay off your college loan . But also , if you engage in national service , we will make it easier for you to pay off a college debt or to earn credits toward it before you go to college , or while you are in college . For each term of service , 1 or 2 years , participants in national service programs will receive benefits that can be used toward past , present , or future obligations , whether for college or advanced job training . You can get a college education and , in addition , through service , perhaps the best experience of your life . That is a pretty good investment . I have talked a lot about the students here . And they do play a large part in this plan , but they are not alone . Here in New Orleans many of you already know what it means to make a difference in your community because you have just been doing that for a long time . And I am very proud , as I said . I am going to get another cheer about this , but one of the models that I had a little something to do with is the Delta Service Corps , and I appreciate what they are doing . There are people here working to restore housing . There are people here working in other ways . I just want to mention three Lawrence Williams , a team leader in the Corps who has helped to restore housing for low income people with the local Habitat for Humanity Project Jane Sullivan , a retired public schoolteacher and a former VISTA volunteer who helps rural communities gain better access to health care , housing , and other assistance and a young person I met just a few moments ago , Parris Moore Brown , who works with parents in housing programs for drug awareness outreach and now plans to work with the physically challenged . She says that she has no tolerance for self pity , and she lives what she preaches . She has not been slowed by what her birth dealt her , a brittle bone disorder that has left her as an adult , and by her own measure , 4 feet , 2 1 4 inches tall . Where are you Stand up on here so we can see you . After my meeting with her and the other young people today , I had say she stands about 10 feet tall in America today . There are tens of thousands of people like Parris and Jane and Lawrence and those of you who are here with these service programs who are dying to be called to a new season of service , and we want to do that . Another part of our plan is to build on the National and Community Service Act that was passed in 1990 , and the already flourishing programs that are started and up and going in every State in this country . National service is not going to be a Federal bureaucracy it is going to operate at the grass roots with the real problems of real people and with the programs that work today . It will be locally driven because I trust the communities in this country to make decisions for themselves . I also want to say that while we want very much to have young people in this program who are working toward earning credits for college or paying their college loans off through national service , we need so many other people in service projects . We need our older people who never will go back to college but have a lifetime of experience and energy to give to the young people of this country . We need young people who may not be old enough to drive a car or to qualify for this program but can have a dramatic impact on fellow students by helping them learn better study habits or just keeping them out of trouble . I have learned already that , as the parent of a teenager , that the peers can have a big impact on the shape and quality of a child s life . Even a child can serve in programs that now begin as early as kindergarten . We have no upper age limit in America , or lower age limit for being a good public servant . To be successful , this national program will need the broad based support of all the American people . Parents and children , churches and synagogues , colleges and universities and the potential providers and the beneficiaries of our services . In this vision of national service , everyone is a partner . And that includes , of course , the business community in this country . We need businesses to contribute to the effort , to match Federal money and local programs and to contribute at the national level , helping to make sure that the programs we choose are good ones indeed . What will set this legislation apart from other similar efforts in the past that rewarded service to our country is that it will totally eliminate the Federal Government bureaucracy . And believe me , no one will miss that . We are going to set up a national service corporation that will run like a big venture capital outfit not like a bureaucracy . And communities , as I said , will have the flexibility to make their own programs work . I think that I have seen enough today and I have heard enough of your applause to know that the American people are hungry for a chance to serve their country and to reap the rewards of civic pride and education in the process . In answering this call our people are following a proud history . More than a century ago President Abraham Lincoln signed the Homestead Act , and the frontier of this country was settled by countless families who took up the challenge in exchange for 100 acres to call their own . In the 1930 s President Roosevelt enlisted millions of young people to restore the environment through the Civilian Conservation Corps . FDR gave others a chance to support themselves through the buildings made possible by the Works Project Administration . I was in the United States Justice Department just yesterday , a building built in 1934 by people who were giving service to their country , and it is still a beautiful monument to the legacy of that kind of service . The parents of the baby boom had the GI bill , which was one of the best investments our Government ever made . A generation ago , the young people of my generation saw suffering in Latin America , Asia , and Africa , and many rushed to the challenge laid down by President Kennedy when he created the Peace Corps , which became our country s greatest ambassador , building bridges of understanding to far off cultures . And now , three decades later , a challenge has been presented to all of you , a new challenge and an old one , as old as America and as new as your future . A year ago when the Democratic Leadership Council met in New Orleans , I asked the following question I said , I want you to think about what kind of citizens you are going to be administration that this was the day the American people were empowered to renew their Nation and their communities , to seize a better future for themselves , and to help all of us to be what the out of helping our fellow citizens and ourselves to become what we ought to be , this country will be all right . Thank you very much , and God bless you all .<speech_sep>Chairman , Vice President , my fellow Democrats , and my fellow Americans thank you for your nomination . I do not know if I can find a fancy way to say this , but I accept . So many have contributed to the record we have made for the American people , but one above all , my partner , my friend , and the best Vice President in our history , Al Gore . Tonight I thank the city of Chicago , its great mayor , and its wonderful people for this magnificent convention . I love Chicago for many reasons , for your powerful spirit , your sports teams , your lively politics , but most of all for the love and light of my life , Chicago s daughter Hillary . Four years ago , you and I set forth on a journey to bring our vision to our country , to keep the American dream alive for all who were willing to work for it , to make our American community stronger , to keep America the world s strongest force for peace and freedom and prosperity . Four years ago , with high unemployment , stagnant wages , crime , welfare , and the deficit on the rise , with a host of unmet challenges and a rising tide of cynicism , I told you about a place I was born , and I told you that I still believed in a place called Hope . Well , for four years now , to realize our vision we have pursued a simple but profound strategy opportunity for all , responsibility from all , a strong united American community . Four days ago , as you were making your way here , I began a train ride to make my way to Chicago through America s heartland . I wanted to see the faces , I wanted to hear the voices of the people for whom I have worked and fought these last four years . And did I ever see them . I met an ingenious business woman who was once on welfare in West Virginia a brave police officer , shot and paralyzed , now a civic leader in Kentucky an autoworker in Ohio , once unemployed , now proud to be working in the oldest auto plant in America to help make America number one in auto production again for the first time in 20 years . I met a grandmother fighting for her grandson s environment in Michigan . And I stood with two wonderful little children proudly reading from their favorite book , The Little Engine That Could . At every stop , large and exuberant crowds greeted me . And maybe more important , when we just rolled through little towns there were always schoolchildren there waving their American flags , all of them believing in America and its future . I would not have missed that trip for all the world , for that trip showed me that hope is back in America . We are on the right track to the 21st century . Look at the facts , just look at the facts 4 . 4 million Americans now living in a home of their own for the first time hundreds of thousands of women have started their own new businesses more minorities own businesses than ever before record numbers of new small businesses and exports . Look at what is happened . We have the lowest combined rates of unemployment , inflation , and home mortgages in 28 years . Look at what happened 10 million new jobs , over half of them high wage jobs 10 million workers getting the raise they deserve with the minimum wage law 25 million people now having protection in their health insurance because the Kennedy Kassebaum bill says you cannot lose your insurance anymore when you change jobs , even if somebody in your family has been sick 40 million Americans with more pension security a tax cut for 15 million of our hardest working , hardest pressed Americans , and all small businesses 12 million Americans 12 million of them taking advantage of the family and medical leave law so they can be good parents and good workers . Ten million students have saved money on their college loans . We are making our democracy work . We have also passed political reform , the line item veto , the motor voter bill , tougher registration laws for lobbyists , making Congress live under the laws they impose on the private sector , stopping unfunded mandates to state and local government . We have come a long way we have got one more thing to do . Will you help me get campaign finance reform in the next four years We have increased our investments in research and technology . We have increased investments in breast cancer research dramatically . We are developing a supercomputer a supercomputer that will do more calculating in a second than a person with a hand held calculator can do in 30 , 000 years . More rapid development of drugs to deal with HIV and AIDS and moving them to the market quicker have almost doubled life expectancy in only four years . And we are looking at no limit in sight to that . We will keep going until normal life is returned to people who deal with this . Our country is still the strongest force for peace and freedom on Earth . On issues that once before tore us apart , we have changed the old politics of Washington . For too long , leaders in Washington asked , who is to blame But we asked , what are we going to do On crime , we are putting 100 , 000 police on the streets . We made three strikes and you are out the law of the land . We stopped 60 , 000 felons , fugitives , and stalkers from getting handguns under the Brady bill . We banned assault rifles . We supported tougher punishment and prevention programs to keep our children from drugs and gangs and violence . Four years now for four years now the crime rate in America has gone down . On welfare , we worked with States to launch a quiet revolution . Today there are 1 . 8 million fewer people on welfare than there were the day I took the oath of office . We are moving people from welfare to work . We have increased child support collections by 40 percent . The federal work force is the smallest it has been since John Kennedy . And the deficit has come down for four years in a row for the first time since before the Civil War , down 60 percent on the way to zero . We will do it . We are on the right track to the 21st century . We are on the right track . But our work is not finished . What should we do First , let us consider how to proceed . Again I say , the question is no longer who is to blame but what to do . I believe that Bob Dole and Jack Kemp and Ross Perot love our country , and they have worked hard to serve it . It is legitimate , even necessary , to compare our record with theirs , our proposals for the future with theirs . And I expect them to make a vigorous effort to do the same . But I will not attack . I will not attack them personally or permit others to do it in this party if I can prevent it . My fellow Americans , this must be this must be a campaign of ideas , not a campaign of insults . The American people deserve it . Now , here s the main idea I love and revere the rich and proud history of America . And I am determined to take our best traditions into the future . But with all respect , we do not need to build a bridge to the past . We need to build a bridge to the future . And that is what I commit to you to do . So tonight , tonight let us resolve to build that bridge to the 21st century , to meet our challenges and protect our values . Let us build a bridge to help our parents raise their children , to help young people and adults to get the education and training they need , to make our streets safer , to help Americans succeed at home and at work , to break the cycle of poverty and dependence , to protect our environment for generations to come , and to maintain our world leadership for peace and freedom . Let us resolve to build that bridge . Tonight , my fellow Americans , I ask all of our fellow citizens to join me and to join you in building that bridge to the 21st century . Four years from now , just four years from now think of it we begin a new century , full of enormous possibilities . We have to give the American people the tools they need to make the most of their God given potential . We must make the basic bargain of opportunity and responsibility available to all Americans , not just a few . That is the promise of the Democratic Party . That is the promise of America . I want to build a bridge to the 21st century in which we expand opportunity through education , where computers are as much a part of the classroom as blackboards , where highly trained teachers demand peak performance from our students , where every 8 year old can point to a book and say , I can read it myself . By the year 2000 , the single most critical thing we can do is to give every single American who wants it the chance to go to college . We must make two years of college just as universal in four years as a high school education is today . And we can do it . We can do it , and we should cut taxes to do it . I propose a 1 , 500 a year tuition tax credit for Americans , a HOPE Scholarship for the first two years of college to make the typical community college education available to every American . I believe every working family ought also to be able to deduct up to 10 , 000 in college tuition costs per year for education after that . I believe the families of this country ought to be able to save money for college in a tax free IRsave it year in and year out , withdraw it for college education without penalty . We should not tax middle income Americans for the money they spend on college . We will get the money back down the road many times over . I want to say here , before I go further , that these tax cuts and every other one I mention tonight are all fully paid for in my balanced budget plan , line by line , dime by dime , and they focus on education . Now , one thing so many of our fellow Americans are learning is that education no longer stops on graduation day . I have proposed a new GI bill for American workers , a 2 , 600 grant for unemployed and underemployed Americans so that they can get the training and the skills they need to go back to work at better paying jobs , good high skilled jobs for a good future . But we must demand excellence at every level of education . We must insist that our students learn the old basics we learned and the new basics they have to know for the next century . Tonight let us set a clear national goal All children should be able to read on their own by the third grade . When 40 percent of our 8 year olds cannot read as well as they should , we have to do something . I want to send 30 , 000 reading specialists and national service corps members to mobilize a voluntary army of one million reading tutors for third graders all across America . They will teach our young children to read . Let me say to our parents You have to lead the way . Every tired night you spend reading a book to your child will be worth it many times over . I know that Hillary and I still talk about the books we read to Chelsea when we were so tired we could hardly stay awake . We still remember them , and more important , so does she . But we are going to help the parents of this country make every child able to read for himself or herself by the age of 8 , by the third grade . Do you believe we can do that Will you help us do that We must give parents , all parents , the right to choose which public school their children will attend and to let teachers form new charter schools with a charter they can keep only if they do a good job . We must keep our schools open late so that young people have someplace to go and something to say yes to and stay off the street . We must require that our students pass tough tests to keep moving up in school . A diploma has to mean something when they get out . We should reward teachers that are doing a good job , remove those who do not measure up . But in every case , never forget that none of us would be here tonight if it were not for our teachers . I know I would not . We ought to lift them up , not tear them down . We need schools that will take our children into the next century . We need schools that are rebuilt and modernized with an unprecedented commitment from the National Government to increase school construction and with every single library and classroom in America connected to the information superhighway by the year 2000 . Now , folks , if we do these things , every 8 year old will be able to read , every 12 year old will be able to log in on the Internet , every 18 year old will be able to go to college , and all Americans will have the knowledge they need to cross that bridge to the 21st century . I want to build a bridge to the 21st century in which we create a strong and growing economy to preserve the legacy of opportunity for the next generation , by balancing our budget in a way that protects our values and ensuring that every family will be able to own and protect the value of their most important asset , their home . Tonight let us proclaim to the American people we will balance the budget . And let us also proclaim , we will do it in a way that preserves Medicare , Medicaid , education , the environment , the integrity of our pensions , the strength of our people . Now , last year when the Republican Congress sent me a budget that violated those values and principles , I vetoed it . And I would do it again tomorrow . I could never allow cuts that devastate education for our children , that pollute our environment , that end the guarantee of health care for those who are served under Medicaid , that end our duty or violate our duty to our parents through Medicare . I just could not do that . As long as I am President , I will never let it happen . And it does not matter if they try again , as they did before , to use the blackmail threat of a shutdown of the federal government to force these things on the American people . We did not let it happen before . We will not let it happen again . Of course , there is a better answer to this dilemma . We could have the right kind of balanced budget with a new Congress , a Democratic Congress . I want to balance the budget with real cuts in government , in waste . I want a plan that invests in education , as mine does , in technology , and yes , in research , as Christopher Reeve so powerfully reminded us we must do . And my plan gives Americans tax cuts that will help our economy to grow . I want to expand IRAs so that young people can save tax free to buy a first home . Tonight I propose a new tax cut for home ownership that says to every middle income working family in this country , if you sell your home you will not have to pay a capital gains tax on it ever , not ever . I want every American to be able to hear those beautiful words , welcome home . Let me say again , every tax cut I call for tonight is targeted , it is responsible , and it is paid for within my balanced budget plan . My tax cuts will not undermine our economy , they will speed economic growth . We should cut taxes for the family sending a child to college , for the worker returning to college , for the family saving to buy a home or for long term health care , and a 500 per child credit for middle income families raising their children who need help with child care and what the children will do after school . That is the right way to cut taxes , pro family , pro education , pro economic growth . Now , our opponents have put forward a very different plan , a risky 550 billion tax scheme that will force them to ask for even bigger cuts in Medicare , Medicaid , education , and the environment than they passed and I vetoed last year . But even then they will not cover the costs of their scheme , so that even then this plan will explode the deficit , which will increase interest rates by two percent , according to their own estimates last year . It will require huge cuts in the very investments we need to grow and to grow together and , at the same time , slow down the economy . You know what higher interest rates mean To you it means a higher mortgage payment , a higher car payment , a higher credit card payment . To our economy it means business people will not borrow as much money , invest as much money , create as many new jobs , create as much wealth , raise as many wages . Do we really want to make that same mistake all over again Do we really want to stop economic growth again Do we really want to start piling up another mountain of debt President Clinton Do we want to bring back the recession of 1991 and 92 Audience No o o President Clinton Do we want to weaken our bridge to the 21st century Audience No o o President Clinton Of course we do not . We have an obligation , you and to leave our children a legacy of opportunity , not a legacy of debt . Our budget would be balanced today , we would have a surplus today , if we did not have to make the interest payments on the debt run up in the 12 years before the Clinton Gore administration took office . Audience Four more years Four more years Four more years President Clinton So let me say this is one of those areas in which I respectfully disagree with my opponent . I do not believe we should bet the farm , and I certainly do not believe we should bet the country . We should stay on the right track to the 21st century . Opportunity alone is not enough . I want to build an America in the 21st century in which all Americans take personal responsibility for themselves , their families , their communities , and their country . I want our nation to take responsibility to make sure that every single child can look out the window in the morning and see a whole community getting up and going to work . We want these young people to know the thrill of the first paycheck , the challenge of starting that first business , the pride in following in a parent s footsteps . The welfare reform law I signed last week gives America a chance , but not a guarantee , to have that kind of new beginning , to have a new social bargain with the poor , guaranteeing health care , child care , and nutrition for the children but requiring able bodied parents to work for the income . Now I say to all of you , whether you supported the law or opposed it , but especially to those who supported it , we have a responsibility , we have a moral obligation to make sure the people who are being required to work have the opportunity to work . We must make sure the jobs are there . There should be one million new jobs for welfare recipients by the year 2000 . States under this law can now take the money that was spent on the welfare check and use it to help businesses provide paychecks . I challenge every state to do it soon . I propose also to give businesses a tax credit for every person hired off welfare and kept employed . I propose to offer private job placement firms a bonus for every welfare recipient they place in a job who stays in it . And more important , I want to help communities put welfare recipients to work right now , without delay , repairing schools , making their neighborhoods clean and safe , making them shine again . There is lots of work to be done out there . Our cities can find ways to put people to work and bring dignity and strength back to these families . My fellow Americans , I have spent an enormous amount of time with our dear friend the late Ron Brown and with Secretary Kantor and others opening markets for America around the world . And I am proud of every one we opened . But let us never forget , the greatest untapped market for American enterprise is right here in America , in the inner cities , in the rural areas , who have not felt this recovery . With investment and business and jobs , they can become our partners in the future . And it is a great opportunity we ought not to pass up . I propose more empowerment zones like the one we have right here in Chicago to draw business into poor neighborhoods . I propose more community development banks , like the South Shore Bank right here in Chicago , to help people in those neighborhoods start their own small businesses . More jobs , more incomes , new markets for America right here at home making welfare reform a reality . Now , folks , you cheered and I thank you but the government can only do so much . The private sector has to provide most of these jobs . So I want to say again , tonight I challenge every business person in America who has ever complained about the failure of the welfare system to try to hire somebody off welfare and try hard . Thank you . After all , the welfare system you used to complain about is not here anymore . There is no more who is to blame on welfare . Now the only question is what to do . And we all have a responsibility , especially those who have criticized what was passed and who have asked for a change and who have the ability to give poor people a chance to grow and support their families . I want to build a bridge to the 21st century that ends the permanent under class , that lifts up the poor and ends their isolation , their exile . And they are not forgotten anymore . Thank you . Audience Four more years Four more years Four more years President Clinton I want to build a bridge to the 21st century where our children are not killing other children anymore , where children s lives are not shattered by violence at home or in the schoolyard , where a generation of young people are not left to raise themselves on the streets . With more police and punishment and prevention , the crime rate has dropped for four years in a row now . But we cannot rest , because we know it is still too high . We cannot rest until crime is a shocking exception to our daily lives , not news as usual . Will you stay with me until we reach that good day My fellow Americans , we all owe a great debt to Sarah and Jim Brady , and I am glad they took their wrong turn and wound up in Chicago . I was glad to see that . It is to them we owe the good news that 60 , 000 felons , fugitives , and stalkers could not get handguns because of the Brady bill . But not a single hunter in Arkansas or New Hampshire or Illinois or anyplace else missed a hunting season . But now I say we should extend the Brady bill , because anyone who has committed an act of domestic violence against a spouse or a child should not buy a gun . And we must ban those cop killer bullets . They are designed for one reason only , to kill police officers . We ask the police to keep us safe . We owe it to them to help keep them safe while they do their job for us . We should pass a victim s rights constitutional amendment because victims deserve to be heard they need to know when an assailant is released . They need to know these things , and the only way to guarantee them is through a constitutional amendment . We have made a great deal of progress . Even the crime rate among young people is finally coming down . So it is very , very painful to me that drug use among young people is up . Drugs nearly killed my brother when he was a young man , and I hate them . He fought back . He is here tonight with his wife , his little boy is here , and I am really proud of him . But I learned something I learned something in going through that long nightmare with our family . And I can tell you , something has happened to some of our young people they simply do not think these drugs are dangerous anymore , or they think the risk is acceptable . So beginning with our parents , and without regard to our party , we have to renew our energy to teach this generation of young people the hard , cold truth Drugs are deadly drugs are wrong drugs can cost you your life . General Barry McCaffrey , the four star general who led our fight against drugs in Latin America , now leads our crusade against drugs at home stopping more drugs at our borders , cracking down on those who sell them , and most important of all , pursuing a national antidrug strategy whose primary aim is to turn our children away from drugs . I call on Congress to give him every cent of funding we have requested for this strategy and to do it now . There is more we will do . We should say to parolees We will test you for drugs if you go back on them , we will send you back to jail . We will say to gangs We will break you with the same antiracketeering law we used to put mob bosses in jail . You are not going to kill our kids anymore or turn them into murderers before they are teenagers . My fellow Americans , if we are going to build that bridge to the 21st century we have to make our children free , free of the vise grip of guns and gangs and drugs , free to build lives of hope . I want to build a bridge to the 21st century with a strong American community , beginning with strong families , an America where all children are cherished and protected from destructive forces , where parents can succeed at home and at work . Everywhere I have gone in America , people come up and talk to me about their struggle with the demands of work and their desire to do a better job with their children . The very first person I ever saw fight that battle was here with me four years ago , and tonight I miss her very , very much . My irrepressible , hard working , always optimistic mother did the best she could for her brother and me , often against very stiff odds . I learned from her just how much love and determination can overcome . But from her and from our life , I also learned that no parent can do it alone . And no parent should have to . She had the kind of help every parent deserves , from our neighbors , our friends , our teachers , our pastors , our doctors , and so many more . You know , when I started out in public life with a lot of my friends from the Arkansas delegation down here , there used to be a saying from time to time that every man who runs for public office will claim that he was born in a log cabin he built with his own hands . Well , my mother knew better . And she made sure I did , too . Long before she even met Hillary , my mother knew it takes a village , and she was grateful for the support she got . As Tipper Gore and Hillary said on Tuesday , we have , all of us in our administration , worked hard to support families in raising their children and succeeding at work . But we must do more . We should extend the family and medical leave law to give parents some time off to take their children to regular doctor s appointments or attend those parent teacher conferences at school . That is a key determination of their success . We should pass a flextime law that allows employees to take their overtime pay in money or in time off , depending on what is better for their family . The FDA has adopted new measures to reduce advertising and sales of cigarettes to children . The Vice President spoke so movingly of it last night . But let me remind you , my fellow Americans , that is very much an issue in this election because that battle is far from over and the two candidates have different views . I pledge to America s parents that I will see this effort all the way through . Working with the entertainment industry , we are giving parents the V chip . TV shows are being rated for content so parents will be able to make a judgment about whether their small children should see them . And three hours of quality children s programming every week , on every network , are on the way . The Kennedy Kassebaum law says every American can keep his or her health insurance if they have to change jobs , even if someone in their family has been sick . That is a very important thing . But tonight we should spell out the next steps . The first thing we ought to do is to extend the benefits of health care to people who are unemployed . I propose in my balanced budget plan , paid for , to help unemployed families keep their health insurance for up to six months . A parent may be without a job , but no child should be without a doctor . And let me say again , as the First Lady did on Tuesday , we should protect mothers and newborn babies from being forced out of the hospital in less than 48 hours . We respect the individual conscience of every American on the painful issue of abortion but believe as a matter of law that this decision should be left to a woman , her conscience , her doctor , and her God . Abortion should not only be safe and legal , it should be rare . That is why I helped to establish and support a national effort to reduce out of wedlock teen pregnancy , and that is why we must promote adoption . Last week the minimum wage bill I signed contained a 5 , 000 credit to families who adopt children , even more if the children have disabilities . It put an end to racial discrimination in the adoption process . It was a good thing for America . My fellow Americans , already there are tens of thousands of children out there who need a good home with loving parents . I hope more of them will find it now . I want to build a bridge to the 21st century with a clean and safe environment . We are making our food safer from pesticides . We are protecting our drinking water and our air from poisons . We saved Yellowstone from mining . We established the largest national park south of Alaska in the Mojave Desert in California . We are working to save the precious Florida Everglades . And when the leaders of this Congress invited the polluters into the back room to roll back 25 years of environmental protections that both parties had always supported , I said no . But we must do more . Today , 10 million children live within just four miles of a toxic waste dump . We have cleaned up 197 of those dumps in the last three years , more than in the previous 12 years combined . In the next four years , we propose to clean up 500 more , two thirds of all that are left and the most dangerous ones . Our children should grow up next to parks , not poison . We should make it a crime even to attempt to pollute . We should freeze the serious polluter s property until they clean up the problems they create . We should make it easier for families to find out about toxic chemicals in their neighborhoods so they can do more to protect their own children . These are the things that we must do to build that bridge to the 21st century . My fellow Americans , I want to build a bridge to the 21st century that makes sure we are still the nation with the world s strongest defense , that our foreign policy still advances the values of our American community in the community of nations . Our bridge to the future must include bridges to other nations , because we remain the world s indispensable nation to advance prosperity , peace , and freedom and to keep our own children safe from the dangers of terror and weapons of mass destruction . We have helped to bring democracy to Haiti and peace to Bosnia . Now the peace signed on the White House lawn between the Israelis and the Palestinians must embrace more of Israel s neighbors . The deep desire for peace that Hillary and I felt when we walked the streets of Belfast and Derry must become real for all the people of Northern Ireland . And Cuba must finally join the community of democracies . Nothing in our lifetime has been more heartening than when people of the former Soviet Union and Central Europe broke the grip of communism . We have aided their progress , and I am proud of it . And I will continue our strong partnership with a democratic Russia . And we will bring some of Central Europe s new democracies into NATO so that they will never question their own freedom in the future . Our American exports are at record levels . In the next four years , we have to break down even more barriers to them , reaching out to Latin America , to Africa , to other countries in Asia , making sure that our workers and our products , the world s finest , have the benefit of free and fair trade . In the last four years , we have frozen North Korea s nuclear weapons program . And I am proud to say that tonight there is not a single Russian nuclear missile pointed at an American child . Now we must enforce and ratify without delay measures that further reduce nuclear arsenals , banish poison gas , and ban nuclear tests once and for all . We have made investments , new investments , in our most important defense asset , our magnificent men and women in uniform . By the year 2000 we also will have increased funding to modernize our weapons systems by 40 percent . These commitments will make sure that our military remains the best trained , best equipped fighting force in the entire world . We are developing a sensible national missile defense , but we must not , not now , not by the year 2000 , squander 60 billion on an unproved , ineffective Star Wars program that could be obsolete tomorrow . We are fighting terrorism on all fronts with a three pronged strategy . First , we are working to rally a world coalition with zero tolerance for terrorism . Just this month , I signed a law imposing harsh sanctions on foreign companies that invest in key sectors of the Iranian and Libyan economies . As long as Iran trains , supports , and protects terrorists , as long as Libya refuses to give up the people who blew up Pan Am 103 , they will pay a price from the United States . Second , we must give law enforcement the tools they need to take the fight to terrorists . We need new laws to crack down on money laundering and to prosecute and punish those who commit violent acts against American citizens abroad , to add chemical markers or taggants to gunpowder used in bombs so we can crack the bombmakers , to extend the same power police now have against organized crime to save lives by tapping all the phones that terrorists use . Terrorists are as big a threat to our future , perhaps bigger , than organized crime . Why should we have two different standards for a common threat to the safety of America and our children We need , in short , the laws that Congress refused to pass . And I ask them again , please , as an American , not a partisan matter , pass these laws now . Third , we will improve airport and air travel security . I have asked the Vice President to establish a commission and report back to me on ways to do this . But now we will install the most sophisticated bomb detection equipment in all our major airports . We will search every airplane flying to or from America from another nation , every flight , every cargo hold , every cabin , every time . My fellow Democrats and my fellow Americans , I know that in most election seasons foreign policy is not a matter of great interest in the debates in the barbershops and the cafes of America , on the plant floors and at the bowling alleys . But there are times , there are times when only America can make the difference between war and peace , between freedom and repression , between life and death . We cannot save all the world s children , but we can save many of them . We cannot become the world s policeman , but where our values and our interests are at stake and where we can make a difference , we must act and we must lead . That is our job , and we are better , stronger , and safer because we are doing it . My fellow Americans , let me say one last time , we can only build our bridge to the 21st century if we build it together and if we are willing to walk arm in arm across that bridge together . I have spent so much of your time that you gave me these last four years to be your President worrying about the problems of Bosnia , the Middle East , Northern Ireland , Rwanda , Burundi . What do these places have in common People are killing each other and butchering children because they are different from one another . They share the same piece of land , but they are different from one another . They hate their race , their tribe , their ethnic group , their religion . We have seen the terrible , terrible price that people pay when they insist on fighting and killing their neighbors over their differences . In our own country , we have seen America pay a terrible price for any form of discrimination . And we have seen us grow stronger as we have steadily let more and more of our hatreds and our fears go , as we have given more and more of our people the chance to live their dreams . That is why the flame of our Statue of Liberty , like the Olympic flame carried all across America by thousands of citizen heroes , will always , always burn brighter than the fires that burn our churches , our synagogues , our mosques always . Look around this hall tonight , and to our fellow Americans watching on television , you look around this hall tonight there is every conceivable difference here among the people who are gathered . If we want to build that bridge to the 21st century we have to be willing to say loud and clear If you believe in the values of the Constitution , the Bill of Rights , the Declaration of Independence , if you are willing to work hard and play by the rules , you are part of our family and we are proud to be with you . You cheer now , because you know this is true . You know this is true . When you walk out of this hall , think about it . Live by it . We still have too many Americans who give in to their fears of those who are different from them . Not so long ago , swastikas were painted on the doors of some African American members of our Special Forces at Fort Bragg . Folks , for those of you who do not know what they do , the Special Forces are just what the name says they are special forces . If I walk off this stage tonight and call them on the telephone and tell them to go halfway around the world and risk their lives for you and be there by tomorrow at noon , they will do it . They do not deserve to have swastikas on their doors . So look around here , look around here Old or young , healthy as a horse or a person with a disability that has not kept you down , man or woman , Native American , native born , immigrant , straight or gay , whatever , the test ought to be I believe in the Constitution , the Bill of Rights , and the Declaration of Independence . I believe in religious liberty . I believe in freedom of speech . I believe in working hard and playing by the rules . I am showing up for work tomorrow . I am building that bridge to the 21st century . That ought to be the test . My fellow Americans , 68 nights from tonight the American people will face once again a critical moment of decision . We are going to choose the last President of the 20th century and the first President of the 21st century . But the real choice is not that . The real choice is whether we will build a bridge to the future or a bridge to the past , about whether we believe our best days are still out there or our best days are behind us , about whether we want a country of people all working together or one where you are on your own . Let us commit ourselves this night to rise up and build the bridge we know we ought to build all the way to the 21st century . Let us have faith , American faith that we are not leaving our greatness behind . We are going to carry it right on with us into that new century , a century of new challenge and unlimited promise . Let us , in short , do the work that is before us , so that when our time here is over , we will all watch the sun go down , as we all must , and say truly , we have prepared our children for the dawn . My fellow Americans , after these four good , hard years , I still believe in a place called Hope , a place called America . Thank you , God bless you , and good night .<speech_sep>