I congratulate you on the continued and increasing prosperity of our country . By the favor of Divine Providence we have been blessed during the past year with health , with abundant harvests , with profitable employment for all our people , and with contentment at home , and with peace and friendship with other nations . The occurrence of the twenty fourth election of Chief Magistrate has afforded another opportunity to the people of the United States to exhibit to the world a significant example of the peaceful and safe transmission of the power and authority of government from the public servants whose terms of office are about to expire to their newly chosen successors . This example can not fail to impress profoundly thoughtful people of other countries with the advantages which republican institutions afford . The immediate , general , and cheerful acquiescence of all good citizens in the result of the election gives gratifying assurance to our country and to its friends throughout the world that a government based on the free consent of an intelligent and patriotic people possesses elements of strength , stability , and permanency not found in any other form of government . Continued opposition to the full and free enjoyment of the rights of citizenship conferred upon the colored people by the recent amendments to the Constitution still prevails in several of the late slaveholding States . It has , perhaps , not been manifested in the recent election to any large extent in acts of violence or intimidation . It has , however , by fraudulent practices in connection with the ballots , with the regulations as to the places and manner of voting , and with counting , returning , and canvassing the votes cast , been successful in defeating the exercise of the right preservative of all rights the right of suffrage which the Constitution expressly confers upon our enfranchised citizens . It is the desire of the good people of the whole country that sectionalism as a factor in our politics should disappear . They prefer that no section of the country should be united in solid opposition to any other section . The disposition to refuse a prompt and hearty obedience to the equal rights amendments to the Constitution is all that now stands in the way of a complete obliteration of sectional lines in our political contests . As long as either of these amendments is flagrantly violated or disregarded , it is safe to assume that the people who placed them in the Constitution , as embodying the legitimate results of the war for the Union , and who believe them to be wise and necessary , will continue to act together and to insist that they shall be obeyed . The paramount question still is as to the enjoyment of the fight by every American citizen who has the requisite qualifications to freely cast his vote and to have it honestly counted . With this question rightly settled , the country will be relieved of the contentions of the past bygones will indeed be bygones , and political and party issues , with respect to economy and efficiency of administration , internal improvements , the tariff , domestic taxation , education , finance , and other important subjects , will then receive their full share of attention but resistance to and nullification of the results of the war will unite together in resolute purpose for their support all who maintain the authority of the Government and the perpetuity of the Union , and who adequately appreciate the value of the victory achieved . This determination proceeds from no hostile sentiment or feeling to any part of the people of our country or to any of their interests . The inviolability of the amendments rests upon the fundamental principle of our Government . They are the solemn expression of the will of the people of the United States . The sentiment that the constitutional rights of all our citizens must be maintained does not grow weaker . It will continue to control the Government of the country . Happily , the history of the late election shows that in many parts of the country where opposition to the fifteenth amendment has heretofore prevailed it is diminishing , and is likely to cease altogether if firm and well considered action is taken by Congress . I trust the House of Representatives and the Senate , which have the right to judge of the elections , returns , and qualifications of their own members , will see to it that every case of violation of the letter or spirit of the fifteenth amendment is thoroughly investigated , and that no benefit from such violation shall accrue to any person or party . It will be the duty of the Executive , with sufficient appropriations for the purpose , to prosecute unsparingly all who have been engaged in depriving citizens of the rights guaranteed to them by the Constitution . It is not , however , to be forgotten that the best and surest guaranty of the primary rights of citizenship is to be found in that capacity for self protection which can belong only to a people whose right to universal suffrage is supported by universal education . The means at the command of the local and State authorities are in many cases wholly inadequate to furnish free instruction to all who need it . This is especially true where before emancipation the education of the people was neglected or prevented , in the interest of slavery . Firmly convinced that the subject of popular education deserves the earnest attention of the people of the whole country , with a view to wise and comprehensive action by the Government of the United States , I respectfully recommend that Congress , by suitable legislation and with proper safeguards , supplement the local educational funds in the several States where the grave duties and responsibilities of citizenship have been devolved on uneducated people by devoting to the purpose grants of the public lands and , if necessary , by appropriations from the Treasury of the United States . Whatever Government can fairly do to promote free popular education ought to be done . Wherever general education is found , peace , virtue , and social order prevail and civil and religious liberty are secure . In my former annual messages I have asked the attention of Congress to the urgent necessity of a reformation of the civil service system of the Government . My views concerning the dangers of patronage , or appointments for personal or partisan considerations , have been strengthened by my observation and experience in the Executive office , and I believe these dangers threaten the stability of the Government . Abuses so serious in their nature can not be permanently tolerated . They tend to become more alarming with the enlargement of administrative service , as the growth of the country in population increases the number of officers and placemen employed . The reasons are imperative for the adoption of fixed rules for the regulation of appointments , promotions , and removals , establishing a uniform method having exclusively in view in every instance the attainment of the best qualifications for the position in question . Such a method alone is consistent with the equal rights of all citizens and the most economical and efficient administration of the public business . Competitive examinations in aid of impartial appointments and promotions have been conducted for some years past in several of the Executive Departments , and by my direction this system has been adopted in the custom houses and post offices of the larger cities of the country . In the city of New York over 2 , 000 positions in the civil service have been subject in their appointments and tenure of place to the operation of published rules for this purpose during the past two years . The results of these practical trials have been very satisfactory , and have confirmed my opinion in favor of this system of selection . All are subjected to the same tests , and the result is free from prejudice by personal favor or partisan influence . It secures for the position applied for the best qualifications attainable among the competing applicants . It is an effectual protection from the pressure of importunity , which under any other course pursued largely exacts the time and attention of appointing officers , to their great detriment in the discharge of other official duties preventing the abuse of the service for the mere furtherance of private or party purposes , and leaving the employee of the Government , freed from the obligations imposed by patronage , to depend solely upon merit for retention and advancement , and with this constant incentive to exertion and improvement . These invaluable results have been attained in a high degree in the offices where the rules for appointment by competitive examination have been applied . A method which has so approved itself by experimental tests at points where such tests may be fairly considered conclusive should be extended to all subordinate positions under the Government . I believe that a strong and growing public sentiment demands immediate measures for securing and enforcing the highest possible efficiency in the civil service and its protection from recognized abuses , and that the experience referred to has demonstrated the feasibility of such measures . The examinations in the custom houses and post offices have been held under many embarrassments and without provision for compensation for the extra labor performed by the officers who have conducted them , and whose commendable interest in the improvement of the public service has induced this devotion of time and labor without pecuniary reward . A continuance of these labors gratuitously ought not to be expected , and without an appropriation by Congress for compensation it is not practicable to extend the system of examinations generally throughout the civil service . It is also highly important that all such examinations should be conducted upon a uniform system and under general supervision . Section 1753 of the Revised Statutes authorizes the President to prescribe the regulations for admission to the civil service of the United States , and for this purpose to employ suitable persons to conduct the requisite inquiries with reference to the fitness of each candidate , in respect to age , health , character , knowledge , and ability for the branch of service into which he seeks to enter but the law is practically inoperative for want of the requisite appropriation . I therefore recommend an appropriation of 25 , 000 per annum to meet the expenses of a commission , to be appointed by the President in accordance with the terms of this section , whose duty it shall be to devise a just , uniform , and efficient system of competitive examinations and to supervise the application of the same throughout the entire civil service of the Government . I am persuaded that the facilities which such a commission will afford for testing the fitness of those who apply for office will not only be as welcome a relief to members of Congress as it will be to the President and heads of Departments , but that it will also greatly tend to remove the causes of embarrassment which now inevitably and constantly attend the conflicting claims of patronage between the legislative and executive departments . The most effectual check upon the pernicious competition of influence and official favoritism in the bestowal of office will be the substitution of an open competition of merit between the applicants , in which everyone can make his own record with the assurance that his success will depend upon this alone . I also recommend such legislation as , while leaving every officer as free as any other citizen to express his political opinions and to use his means for their advancement , shall also enable him to feel as safe as any private citizen in refusing all demands upon his salary for political purposes . A law which should thus guarantee true liberty and justice to all who are engaged in the public service , and likewise contain stringent provisions against the use of official authority to coerce the political action of private citizens or of official subordinates , is greatly to be desired . The most serious obstacle , however , to an improvement of the civil service , and especially to a reform in the method of appointment and removal , has been found to be the practice , under what is known as the spoils system , by which the appointing power has been so largely encroached upon by members of Congress . The first step in the reform of the civil service must be a complete divorce between Congress and the Executive in the matter of appointments . The corrupting doctrine that to the victors belong the spoils is inseparable from Congressional patronage as the established rule and practice of parties in power . It comes to be understood by applicants for office and by the people generally that Representatives and Senators are entitled to disburse the patronage of their respective districts and States . It is not necessary to recite at length the evils resulting from this invasion of the Executive functions . The true principles of Government on the subject of appointments to office , as stated in the national conventions of the leading parties of the country , have again and again been approved by the American people , and have not been called in question in any quarter . These authentic expressions of public opinion upon this all important subject are the statement of principles that belong to the constitutional structure of the Government . Under the Constitution the President and heads of Departments are to make nominations for office . The Senate is to advise and consent to appointments , and the House of Representatives is to accuse and prosecute faithless officers . The best interest of the public service demands that these distinctions be respected that Senators and Representatives , who may be judges and accusers , should not dictate appointments to office . To this end the cooperation of the legislative department . of the Government is required alike by the necessities of the case and by public opinion . Members of Congress will not be relieved from the demands made upon them with reference to appointments to office until by legislative enactment the pernicious practice is condemned and forbidden . It is therefore recommended that an act be passed defining the relations of members of Congress with respect to appointment to office by the President and I also recommend that the provisions of section 1767 and of the sections following of the Revised Statutes , comprising the tenure of office act of March 2 , 1867 , be repealed . Believing that to reform the system and methods of the civil service in our country is one of the highest and most imperative duties of statesmanship , and that it can be permanently done only by the cooperation of the legislative and executive departments of the Government , I again commend the whole subject to your considerate attention . It is the recognized duty and purpose of the people of the United States to suppress polygamy where it now exists in our Territories and to prevent its extension . Faithful and zealous efforts have been made by the United States authorities in Utah to enforce the laws against it . Experience has shown that the legislation upon this subject , to be effective , requires extensive modification and amendment . The longer action is delayed the more difficult it will be to accomplish what is desired . Prompt and decided measures are necessary . The Mormon sectarian organization which upholds polygamy has the whole power of making and executing the local legislation of the Territory . By its control of the grand and petit juries it possesses large influence over the administration of justice . Exercising , as the heads of this sect do , the local political power of the Territory , they are able to make effective their hostility to the law of Congress on the subject of polygamy , and , in fact , do prevent its enforcement . Polygamy will not be abolished if the enforcement of the law depends on those who practice and uphold the crime . It can only be suppressed by taking away the political power of the sect which encourages and sustains it . The power of Congress to enact suitable laws to protect the Territories is ample . It is not a case for halfway measures . The political power of the Mormon sect is increasing . It controls now one of our wealthiest and most populous Territories . It is extending steadily into other Territories . Wherever it goes it establishes polygamy and sectarian political power . The sanctity of marriage and the family relation are the corner stone of our American society and civilization . Religious liberty and the separation of church and state are among the elementary ideas of free institutions . To reestablish the interests and principles which polygamy and Mormonism have imperiled , and to fully reopen to intelligent and virtuous immigrants of all creeds that part of our domain which has been in a great degree closed to general immigration by intolerant and immoral institutions , it is recommended that the government of the Territory of Utah be reorganized . I recommend that Congress provide for the government of Utah by a governor and judges , or commissioners , appointed by the President and confirmed by the Senate a government analogous to the provisional government established for the territory northwest of the Ohio by the ordinance of 1787 . If , however , it is deemed best to continue the existing form of local government , I recommend that the right to vote , hold office , and sit on juries in the Territory of Utah be confined to those who neither practice nor uphold polygamy . If thorough measures are adopted , it is believed that within a few years the evils which now afflict Utah will be eradicated , and that this Territory will in good time become one of the most prosperous and attractive of the new States of the Union . Our relations with all foreign countries have been those of undisturbed peace , and have presented no occasion for concern as to their continued maintenance . My anticipation of an early reply from the British Government to the demand of indemnity to our fishermen for the injuries suffered by that industry at Fortune Bay in January , 1878 , which I expressed in my last annual message , was disappointed . This answer was received only in the latter part of April in the present year , and when received exhibited a failure of accord between the two Governments as to the measure of the inshore fishing privilege secured to our fishermen by the treaty of Washington of so serious a character that I made it the subject of a communication to Congress , in which I recommended the adoption of the measures which seemed to me proper to be taken by this Government in maintenance of the rights accorded to our fishermen under the treaty and toward securing an indemnity for the injury these interests had suffered . A bill to carry out these recommendations was under consideration by the House of Representatives at the time of the adjournment of Congress in June last . Within a few weeks I have received a communication from Her Majesty s Government renewing the consideration of the subject , both of the indemnity for the injuries at Fortune Bay and of the interpretation of the treaty in which the previous correspondence had shown the two Governments to be at variance . Upon both these topics the disposition toward a friendly agreement is manifested by a recognition of our right to an indemnity for the transaction at Fortune Bay , leaving the measure of such indemnity to further conference , and by an assent to the view of this Government , presented in the previous correspondence , that the regulation of conflicting interests of the shore fishery of the provincial seacoasts and the vessel fishery of our fishermen should be made the subject of conference and concurrent arrangement between the two Governments . I sincerely hope that the basis may be found for a speedy adjustment of the very serious divergence of views in the interpretation of the fishery clauses of the treaty of Washington , which , as the correspondence between the two Governments stood at the close of the last session of Congress , seemed to be irreconcilable . In the important exhibition of arts and industries which was held last year at Sydney , New South Wales , as well as in that now in progress at Melbourne , the United States have been efficiently and honorably represented . The exhibitors from this country at the former place received a large number of awards in some of the most considerable departments , and the participation of the United States was recognized by a special mark of distinction . In the exhibition at Melbourne the share taken by our country is no less notable , and an equal degree of success is confidently expected . The state of peace and tranquillity now enjoyed by all the nations of the continent of Europe has its favorable influence upon our diplomatic and commercial relations with them . We have concluded and ratified a convention with the French Republic for the settlement of claims of the citizens of either country against the other . Under this convention a commission , presided over by a distinguished publicist , appointed in pursuance of the request of both nations by His Majesty the Emperor of Brazil , has been organized and has begun its sessions in this city . A congress to consider means for the protection of industrial property has recently been in session in Paris , to which I have appointed the ministers of the United States in France and in Belgium as delegates . The International Commission upon Weights and Measures also continues its work in Paris . I invite your attention to the necessity of an appropriation to be made in time to enable this Government to comply with its obligations under the metrical convention . Our friendly relations with the German Empire continue without interruption . At the recent International Exhibition of Fish and Fisheries at Berlin the participation of the United States , notwithstanding the haste with which the commission was forced to make its preparations , was extremely successful and meritorious , winning for private exhibitors numerous awards of a high class and for the country at large the principal prize of honor offered by His Majesty the Emperor . The results of this great success can not but be advantageous to this important and growing industry . There have been some questions raised between the two Governments as to the proper effect and interpretation of our treaties of naturalization , but recent dispatches from our minister at Berlin show that favorable progress is making toward an understanding in accordance with the views of this Government , which makes and admits no distinction whatever between the rights of a native and a naturalized citizen of the United States . In practice the complaints of molestation suffered by naturalized citizens abroad have never been fewer than at present . There is nothing of importance to note in our unbroken friendly relations with the Governments of Austria Hungary , Russia , Portugal , Sweden and Norway , Switzerland , Turkey , and Greece . During the last summer several vessels belonging to the merchant marine of this country , sailing in neutral waters of the West Indies , were fired at , boarded , and searched by an armed cruiser of the Spanish Government . The circumstances as reported involve not only a private injury to the persons concerned , but also seemed too little observant of the friendly relations existing for a century between this country and Spain . The wrong was brought to the attention of the Spanish Government in a serious protest and remonstrance , and the matter is undergoing investigation by the royal authorities with a view to such explanation or reparation as may be called for by the facts . The commission sitting in this city for the adjudication of claims of our citizens against the Government of Spain is , I hope , approaching the termination of its labors . The claims against the United States under the Florida treaty with Spain were submitted to Congress for its action at the late session , and I again invite your attention to this long standing question , with a view to a final disposition of the matter . At the invitation of the Spanish Government , a conference has recently been held at the city of Madrid to consider the subject of protection by foreign powers of native Moors in the Empire of Morocco . The minister of the United States in Spain was directed to take part in the deliberations of this conference , the result of which is a convention signed on behalf of all the powers represented . The instrument will be laid before the Senate for its consideration . The Government of the United States has also lost no opportunity to urge upon that of the Emperor of Morocco the necessity , in accordance with the humane and enlightened spirit of the age , of putting an end to the persecutions , which have been so prevalent in that country , of persons of a faith . other than the Moslem , and especially of the Hebrew residents of Morocco . The consular treaty concluded with Belgium has not yet been officially promulgated , owing to the alteration of a word in the text by the Senate of the United States , which occasioned a delay , during which the time allowed for ratification expired . The Senate will be asked to extend the period for ratification . The attempt to negotiate a treaty of extradition with Denmark failed on account of the objection of the Danish Government to the usual clause providing that each nation should pay the expense of the arrest of the persons whose extradition it asks . The provision made by Congress at its last session for the expense of the commission which had been appointed to enter upon negotiations with the Imperial Government of China on subjects of great interest to the relations of the two countries enabled the commissioners to proceed at once upon their mission . The Imperial Government was prepared to give prompt and respectful attention to the matters brought under negotiation , and the conferences proceeded with such rapidity and success that on the 17th of November last two treaties were signed at Peking , one relating to the introduction of Chinese into this country and one relating to commerce . Trescot , one of the commissioners , is now on his way home bringing the treaties , and it is expected that they will be received in season to be laid before the Senate early in January . Our minister in Japan has negotiated a convention for the reciprocal relief of shipwrecked seamen . I take occasion to urge once more upon Congress the propriety of making provision for the erection of suitable fireproof buildings at the Japanese capital for the use of the American legation and the court house and jail connected with it . The Japanese Government , with great generosity and courtesy , has offered for this purpose an eligible piece of land . In my last annual message I invited the attention of Congress to the subject of the indemnity funds received some years ago from China and Japan . I renew the recommendation then made that whatever portions of these funds are due to American citizens should be promptly paid and the residue returned to the nations , respectively , to which they justly and equitably belong . The extradition treaty with the Kingdom of the Netherlands , Which has been for some time in course of negotiation , has during the past year been concluded and duly ratified . Relations of friendship and amity have been established between the Government of the United States and that of Roumania . We have sent a diplomatic representative to Bucharest , and have received at this capital the special envoy who has been charged by His Royal Highness Prince Charles to announce the independent sovereignty of Roumania . We hope for a speedy development of commercial relations between the two countries . In my last annual message I expressed the hope that the prevalence of quiet on the border between this country and Mexico would soon become so assured as to justify the modification of the orders then in force to our military commanders in regard to crossing the frontier , without encouraging such disturbances as would endanger the peace of the two countries . Events moved in accordance with these expectations , and the orders were accordingly withdrawn , to the entire satisfaction of our own citizens and the Mexican Government . Subsequently the peace of the border was again disturbed by a savage foray under the command of the Chief Victoria , but by the combined and harmonious action of the military forces of both countries his band has been broken up and substantially destroyed . There is reason to believe that the obstacles which have so long prevented rapid and convenient communication between the United States and Mexico by railways are on the point of disappearing , and that several important enterprises of this character will soon be set on foot , which can not fail to contribute largely to the prosperity of both countries . New envoys from Guatemala , Colombia , Bolivia , Venezuela , and Nicaragua have recently arrived at this capital , whose distinction and enlightenment afford the best guaranty of the continuance of friendly relations between ourselves and these sister Republics . The relations between this Government and that of the United States of Colombia have engaged public attention during the past year , mainly by reason of the project of an interoceanic canal across the Isthmus of Panama , to be built by private capital under a concession from the Colombian Government for that purpose . The treaty obligations subsisting between the United States and Colombia , by which we guarantee the neutrality of the transit and the sovereignty and property of Colombia in the Isthmus , make it necessary that the conditions under which so stupendous a change in the region embraced in this guaranty should be effected transforming , as it would , this Isthmus from a barrier between the Atlantic and Pacific oceans into a gateway and thoroughfare between them for the navies and the merchant ships of the world should receive the approval of this Government , as being compatible with the discharge of these obligations on our part and consistent with our interests as the principal commercial power of the Western Hemisphere . The views which I expressed in a special message to Congress in March last in relation to this project I deem it my duty again to press upon your attention . Subsequent consideration has but confirmed the opinion that it is the right and duty of the United States to assert and maintain such supervision and authority over any interoceanic canal across the isthmus that connects North and South America as will protect our national interest . The war between the Republic of Chile on the one hand and the allied Republics of Peru and Bolivia on the other still continues . This Government has not felt called upon to interfere in a contest that is within the belligerent rights of the parties as independent states . We have , however , always held ourselves in readiness to aid in accommodating their difference , and have at different times reminded beth belligerents of our willingness to render such service . Our good offices in this direction were recently accepted by all the belligerents , and it was hoped they would prove efficacious but I regret to announce that the measures which the ministers of the United States at Santiago and Lima were authorized to take with the view to bring about a peace were not successful . In the course of the war some questions have arisen affecting neutral rights . In all of these the ministers of the United States have , under their instructions , acted with promptness and energy in protection of American interests . The relations of the United States with the Empire of Brazil continue to be most cordial , and their commercial intercourse steadily increases , to their mutual advantage . The internal disorders with which the Argentine Republic has for some time past been afflicted , and which have more or less influenced its external trade , are understood to have been brought to a close . This happy result may be expected to redound to the benefit of the foreign commerce of that Republic , as well as to the development of its vast interior resources . In Samoa the Government of King Malietoa , under the support and recognition of the consular representatives of the United States , Great Britain , and Germany , seems to have given peace and tranquillity to the islands . While it does not appear desirable to adopt as a whole the scheme of tripartite local government which has been proposed , the common interests of the three great treaty powers require harmony in their relations to the native frame of government , and this may be best secured by a simple diplomatic agreement between them . It would be well if the consular jurisdiction of our representative at Apia were increased in extent and importance so as to guard American interests in the surrounding and outlying islands of Oceanica . The obelisk generously presented by the Khedive of Egypt to the city of New York has safely arrived in this country , and will soon be erected in that metropolis . A commission for the liquidation of the Egyptian debt has lately concluded its work , and this Government , at the earnest solicitation of the Khedive , has acceded to the provisions adopted by it , which will be laid before Congress for its information . A commission for the revision of the judicial code of the reform tribunal of Egypt is now in session in Cairo . Farman , consul general , and Batchelder , esq . , have been appointed as commissioners to participate in this work . The organization of the reform tribunals will probably be continued for another period of five years . In pursuance of the act passed at the last session of Congress , invitations have been extended to foreign maritime states to join in a sanitary conference in Washington , beginning the 1st of January . The acceptance of this invitation by many prominent powers gives promise of success in this important measure , designed to establish a system of international notification by which the spread of infectious or epidemic diseases may be more effectively checked or prevented . The attention of Congress is invited to the necessary appropriations for carrying into effect the provisions of the act referred to . The efforts of the Department of State to enlarge the trade and commerce of the United States , through the active agency of consular officers and through the dissemination of information obtained from them , have been unrelaxed . The interest in these efforts , as developed in our commercial communities , and the value of the information secured by this means to the trade and manufactures of the country were recognized by Congress at its last session , and provision was made for the more frequent publication of consular and other reports by the Department of State . The first issue of this publication has now been prepared , and subsequent issues may regularly be expected . The importance and interest attached to the reports of consular officers are witnessed by the general demand for them by all classes of merchants and manufacturers engaged in our foreign trade . It is believed that the system of such publications is deserving of the approval of Congress , and that the necessary appropriations for its continuance and enlargement will commend itself to your consideration . The prosperous energies of our domestic industries and their immense production of the subjects of foreign commerce invite , and even require , an active development of the wishes and interests of our people in that direction . Especially important is it that our commercial relations with the Atlantic and Pacific coasts of South America , with the West Indies and the Gulf of Mexico , should be direct , and not through the circuit of European systems , and should be carried on in our own bottoms . The full appreciation of the opportunities which our front on the Pacific Ocean gives to commerce with Japan , China , and the East Indies , with Australia and the island groups which lie along these routes of navigation , should inspire equal efforts to appropriate to our own shipping and to administer by our own capital a due proportion of this trade . Whatever modifications of our regulations of trade and navigation may be necessary or useful to meet and direct these impulses to the enlargement of our exchanges and of our carrying trade I am sure the wisdom of Congress will be ready to supply . One initial measure , however , seems to me so dearly useful and efficient that I venture to press it upon your earnest attention . It seems to be very evident that the provision of regular steam postal communication by aid from government has been the forerunner of the commercial predominance of Great Britain on all these coasts and seas , a greater share in whose trade is now the desire and the intent of our people . It is also manifest that the efforts of other European nations to contend with Great Britain for a share of this commerce have been successful in proportion with their adoption of regular steam postal communication with the markets whose trade they sought . Mexico and the States of South America are anxious to receive such postal communication with this country and to aid in their development . Similar cooperation may be looked for in due time from the Eastern nations and from Australia . It is difficult to see how the lead in this movement can be expected from private interests . In respect of foreign commerce quite as much as in internal trade postal communication seems necessarily a matter of common and public administration , and thus pertaining to Government . I respectfully recommend to your prompt attention such just and efficient measures as may conduce to the development of our foreign commercial exchanges and the building up of our carrying trade . In this connection I desire also to suggest the very great service which might be expected in enlarging and facilitating our commerce on the Pacific Ocean were a transmarine cable laid from San Francisco to the Sandwich Islands , and thence to Japan at the north and Australia at the south . The great influence of such means of communication on these routes of navigation in developing and securing the due share of our Pacific Coast in the commerce of the world needs no illustration or enforcement . It may be that such an enterprise , useful , and in the end profitable , as it would prove to private investment , may need to be accelerated by prudent legislation by Congress in its aid , and I submit the matter to your careful consideration . An additional and not unimportant , although secondary , reason for fostering and enlarging the Navy may be found in the unquestionable service to the expansion of our commerce which would be rendered by the frequent circulation of naval ships in the seas and ports of all quarters of the globe . Ships of the proper construction and equipment to be of the greatest efficiency in case of maritime war might be made constant and active agents in time of peace in the advancement and protection of our foreign trade and in the nurture and discipline of young seamen , who would naturally in some numbers mix with and improve the crews of our merchant ships . Our merchants at home and abroad recognize the value to foreign commerce of an active movement of our naval vessels , and the intelligence and patriotic zeal of our naval officers in promoting every interest of their countrymen is a just subject of national pride . The condition of the financial affairs of the Government , as shown by the report of the Secretary of the Treasury , is very satisfactory . It is believed that the present financial situation of the United States , whether considered with respect to trade , currency , credit , growing wealth , or the extent and variety of our resources , is more favorable than that of any other country of our time , and has never been surpassed by that of any country at any period of its history . All our industries are thriving the rate of interest is low new railroads are being constructed a vast immigration is increasing our population , capital , and labor new enterprises in great number are in progress , and our commercial relations with other countries are improving . The ordinary revenues from all sources for the fiscal year ended June 30 , 1880 , were From customs 186 , 522 , 064 . 60 From internal revenue 124 , 009 , 373 . 92 From sales of public lands 1 , 016 , 506 . 60 From tax on circulation and deposits of national banks 7 , 014 , 971 . 44 From repayment of interest by Pacific Railway companies 1 , 707 , 367 . 18 From sinking fund for Pacific Railway companies 786 , 621 . 22 From customs fees , fines , penalties , etc 1 , 148 , 800 . 16 From fees consular , letters patent , and lands 2 , 337 , 029 . 00 From proceeds of sales of Government property 282 , 616 . 50 From profits on coinage , etc 2 , 792 , 186 . 78 From revenues of the District of Columbia 1 , 809 , 469 . 70 From miscellaneous sources 4 , 099 , 603 . 88 Total ordinary receipts 333 , 526 , 610 . 98 The ordinary expenditures for the same period were For civil expenses 15 , 693 , 963 . 55 For foreign intercourse 1 , 211 , 490 . 58 For Indians 5 , 945 , 457 . 09 For pensions including 19 , 341 , 025 . 20 arrears of pensions 56 , 777 , 174 . 44 For the military establishment , including river and harbor improvements and arsenals 38 , 116 , 916 . 22 For the naval establishment , including vessels , machinery , and improvements at navy yards 13 , 536 , 984 . 74 For miscellaneous expenditures , including public buildings , light houses , and collecting the revenue 34 , 535 , 691 . 00 For expenditures on account of the District of Columbia 3 , 272 , 384 . 63 For interest on the public debt 95 , 757 , 575 . 11 For premium on bonds purchased 2 , 795 , 320 . 42 leaving a surplus revenue of 65 , 883 , 653 . 20 , which , with an amount drawn from the cash balance in Treasury of 8 , 084 , 434 . 21 , making 73 , 968 , 087 . 41 , was applied to the redemption Of bonds for the sinking fund 73 , 652 , 900 . 00 Of fractional currency 251 , 717 . 41 Of the loan of 1858 40 , 000 . 00 Of temporary loan 100 . 00 Of bounty land scrip 25 . 00 Of compound interest notes 16 , 500 . 00 Of 7 . 30 notes of 1864 65 2 , 650 . 00 Of one and two year notes 3 , 700 . 00 Of old demand notes 495 . 00 Total 73 , 968 , 087 . 41 The amount due the sinking fund for this year was 37 , 931 , 643 . 55 . There was applied thereto the sum of 73 , 904 , 617 . 41 , being 35 , 972 , 973 . 86 in excess of the actual requirements for the year . The aggregate of the revenues from all sources during the fiscal year ended June 30 , 1880 , was 333 , 526 , 610 . 98 , an increase over the preceding year of 59 , 699 , 426 . 52 . The receipts thus far of the current year , together with the estimated receipts for the remainder of the year , amount to 350 , 000 , 000 , which will be sufficient to meet the estimated expenditures of the year and leave a surplus of 90 , 000 , 000 . It is fortunate that this large surplus revenue occurs at a period when it may be directly applied to the payment of the public debt soon to be redeemable . No public duty has been more constantly cherished in the United States than the policy of paying the nation s debt as rapidly as possible . The debt of the United States , less cash in the Treasury and exclusive of accruing interest , attained its maximum of 2 , 756 , 431 , 571 . 43 in August , 1865 , and has since that time been reduced to 1 , 886 , 019 , 504 . 65 . Of the principal of the debt , 108 , 758 , 100 has been paid since March 1 , 1877 , effecting an annual saving of interest of 6 , 107 , 593 . The burden of interest has also been diminished by the sale of bonds bearing a low rate of interest and the application of the proceeds to the redemption of bonds bearing a higher rate . The annual saving thus secured since March 1 , 1877 , is 14 , 290 , 453 . 50 . Within a short period over six hundred millions of 5 and 6 per cent bonds will become redeemable . This presents a very favorable opportunity not only to further reduce the principal of the debt , but also to reduce the rate of interest on that which will remain unpaid . I call the attention of Congress to the views expressed on this subject by the Secretary of the Treasury in his annual report , and recommend prompt legislation to enable the Treasury Department to complete the refunding of the debt which is about to mature . The continuance of specie payments has not been interrupted or endangered since the date of resumption . It has contributed greatly to the revival of business and to our remarkable prosperity . The fears that preceded and accompanied resumption have proved groundless . No considerable amount of United States notes have been presented for redemption , while very large sums of gold bullion , both domestic and imported , are taken to the mints and exchanged for coin or notes . The increase of coin and bullion in the United States since January 1 , 1879 , is estimated at 227 , 399 , 428 . There are still in existence , uncanceled , 346 , 681 , 016 of United States legal tender notes . These notes were authorized as a war measure , made necessary by the exigencies of the conflict in which the United States was then engaged . The preservation of the nation s existence required , in the judgment of Congress , an issue of legal tender paper money . That it served well the purpose for which it was created is not questioned , but the employment of the notes as paper money indefinitely , after the accomplishment of the object for which they were provided , was not contemplated by the framers of the law under which they were issued . These notes long since became , like any other pecuniary obligation of the Government , a debt to be paid , and when paid to be canceled as mere evidence of an indebtedness no longer existing . I therefore repeat what was said in the annual message of last year , that the retirement from circulation of United States notes with the capacity of legal tender in private contracts is a step to be taken in our progress toward a safe and stable currency which should be accepted as the policy and duty of the Government and the interest and security of the people . At the time of the passage of the act now in force requiring the coin . age of silver dollars , fixing their value , and giving them legal tender character it was believed by many of the supporters of the measure that the silver dollar which it authorized would speedily become , under the operations of the law , of equivalent value to the gold dollar . There were other supporters of the bill , who , while they doubted as to the probability of this result , nevertheless were willing to give the proposed experiment a fair trial , with a view to stop the coinage if experience should prove that the silver dollar authorized by the bill continued to be of less commercial value than the standard gold dollar . The coinage of silver dollars under the act referred to began in March , 1878 , and has been continued as required by the act . The average rate per month to the present time has been 2 , 276 , 492 . The total amount coined prior to the 1st of November last was 72 , 847 , 750 . Of this amount 47 , 084 , 450 remain in the Treasury , and only 25 , 763 , 291 are in the hands of the people . A constant effort has been made to keep this currency in circulation , and considerable expense has been necessarily incurred for this purpose but its return to the Treasury is prompt and sure . Contrary to the confident anticipation of the friends of the measure at the time of its adoption , the value of the silver dollar containing 412 1 2 grains of silver has not increased . During the year prior to the passage of the bill authorizing its coinage the market value of the silver which it contained was from 90 to 92 cents as compared with the standard gold dollar . During the last year the average market value of the silver dollar has been 88 1 2 cents . It is obvious that the legislation of the last Congress in regard to silver , so far as it was based on an anticipated rise in the value of silver as a result of that legislation , has failed to produce the effect then predicted . The longer the law remains in force , requiring , as it does , the coinage of a nominal dollar which in reality is not a dollar , the greater becomes the danger that this country will be forced to accept a single metal as the sole legal standard of value in circulation , and this a standard of less value than it purports to be worth in the recognized money of the world . The Constitution of the United States , sound financial principles , and our best interests all require that the country should have as its legal tender money both gold and silver coin of an intrinsic value , as bullion , equivalent to that which upon its face it purports to possess . The Constitution in express terms recognizes both gold and silver as the only true legal tender money . To banish either of these metals from our currency is to narrow and limit the circulating medium of exchange to the disparagement of important interests . The United States produces more silver than any other country , and is directly interested in maintaining it as one of the two precious metals which furnish the coinage of the world . It will , in my judgment , contribute to this result if Congress will repeal so much of existing legislation as requires the coinage of silver dollars containing only 412 1 2 grains of silver , and in its stead will authorize the Secretary of the Treasury to coin silver dollars of equivalent value , as bullion , with gold dollars . This will defraud no man , and will be in accordance with familiar precedents . Congress on several occasions has altered the ratio of value between gold and silver , in order to establish it more nearly in accordance with the actual ratio of value between the two metals . In financial legislation every measure in the direction of greater fidelity in the discharge of pecuniary obligations has been found by experience to diminish the rates of interest which debtors are required to pay and to increase the facility with which money can be obtained for every legitimate purpose . Our own recent financial history shows how surely money becomes abundant whenever confidence in the exact performance of moneyed obligations is established . The Secretary of War reports that , the expenditures of the War Department for the fiscal year ended June 30 , 1880 , were 39 , 924 , 773 . 03 . The appropriations for this Department for the current fiscal year amount to 41 , 993 , 630 . 40 . With respect to the Army , the Secretary invites attention to the fact that its strength is limited by statute Revised Statutes , sec . 1115 to not more than 30 , 000 enlisted men , but that provisos contained in appropriation bills have limited expenditures to the enlistment of but 25 , 000 . It is believed the full legal strength is the least possible force at which the present organization can be maintained , having in view efficiency , discipline , and economy . While the enlistment of this force would add somewhat to the appropriation for pay of the Army , the saving made in other respects would be more than an equivalent for this additional outlay , and the efficiency of the Army would be largely increased . The rapid extension of the railroad system west of the Mississippi River and the great tide of settlers which has flowed in upon new territory impose on the military an entire change of policy . The maintenance of small posts along wagon and stage routes of travel is no longer necessary . Permanent quarters at points selected , of a more substantial character than those heretofore constructed , will be required . Under existing laws permanent buildings can not be erected without the sanction of Congress , and when sales of military sites and buildings have been authorized the moneys received have reverted to the Treasury and could only become available through a new appropriation . It is recommended that provision be made by a general statute for the sale of such abandoned military posts and buildings as are found to be unnecessary and for the application of the proceeds to the construction of other posts . While many of the present posts are of but slight value for military purposes , owing to the changed condition of the country , their occupation is continued at great expense and inconvenience because they afford the only available shelter for troops . The absence of a large number of officers of the line , in active duty , from their regiments is a serious detriment to the maintenance of the service . The constant demand for small detachments , each of which should be commanded by a commissioned officer , and the various details of officers for necessary service away from their commands occasion a scarcity in the number required for company duties . With a view to lessening this drain to some extent , it is recommended that the law authorizing the detail of officers from the active list as professors of tactics and military science at certain colleges and universities be so amended as to provide that all such details be made from the retired list of the Army . Attention is asked to the necessity of providing by legislation for organizing , arming , and disciplining the active militia of the country , and liberal appropriations are recommended in this behalf . The reports of the Adjutant General of the Army and the Chief of Ordnance touching this subject fully set forth its importance . The report of the officer in charge of education in the Army shows that there are 78 schools now in operation in the Army , with an aggregate attendance of 2 , 305 enlisted men and children . The Secretary recommends the enlistment of 150 schoolmasters , with the rank and pay of commissary sergeants . An appropriation is needed to supply the judge advocates of the Army with suitable libraries , and the Secretary recommends that the Corps of Judge Advocates be placed upon the same footing as to promotion with the other staff corps of the Army . Under existing laws the Bureau of Military Justice consists of one officer the Judge Advocate General , and the Corps of Judge Advocates of eight officers of equal rank majors , with a provision that the limit of the corps shall remain at four when reduced by casualty or resignation to that number . The consolidation of the Bureau of Military Justice and the Corps of Judge Advocates upon the same basis with the other staff corps of the Army would remove an unjust discrimination against deserving officers and subserve the best interests of the service . Especial attention is asked to the report of the Chief of Engineers upon the condition of our national defenses . From a personal inspection of many of the fortifications referred to , the Secretary is able to emphasize the recommendations made and to state that their incomplete and defenseless condition is discreditable to the country . While other nations have been increasing their means for carrying on offensive warfare and attacking maritime cities , we have been dormant in preparation for defense . Nothing of importance has been done toward strengthening and finishing our casemated works since our late civil war , during which the great guns of modern warfare and the heavy armor of modern fortifications and ships came into use among the nations and our earthworks , left by a sudden failure of appropriations some years since in all stages of incompletion , are now being rapidly destroyed by the elements . The two great rivers of the North American continent , the Mississippi and the Columbia , have their navigable waters wholly within the limits of the United States , and are of vast importance to our internal and foreign commerce . The permanency of the important work on the South Pass of the Mississippi River seems now to be assured . There has been no failure whatever in the maintenance of the maximum channel during the six months ended August 9 last . This experiment has opened a broad , deep highway to the ocean , and is an improvement upon the permanent success of which congratulations may be exchanged among people abroad and at home , and especially among the communities of the Mississippi Valley , whose commercial exchanges float in an unobstructed channel safely to and from the sea . A comprehensive improvement of the Mississippi and its tributaries is a matter of transcendent importance . These great waterways comprise a system of inland transportation spread like network over a large portion of the United States , and navigable to the extent of many thousands of miles . Producers and consumers alike have a common interest in such unequaled facilities for cheap transportation . Geographically , commercially , and politically , they are the strongest tie between the various sections of the country . These channels of communication and interchange are the property of the nation . Its jurisdiction is paramount over their waters , and the plainest principles of public interest require their intelligent and careful supervision , with a view to their protection , improvement , and the enhancement of their usefulness . The channel of the Columbia River for a distance of about 100 miles from its mouth is obstructed by a succession of bars , which occasion serious delays in navigation and heavy expense for lighterage and towage . A depth of at least 20 feet at low tide should be secured and maintained to meet the requirements of the extensive and growing inland and ocean commerce it subserves . The most urgent need , however , for this great waterway is a permanent improvement of the channel at the mouth of the river . From Columbia River to San Francisco , a distance of over 600 miles , there is no harbor on our Pacific coast which can be approached during stormy weather . An appropriation of 150 , 000 was made by the Forty fifth Congress for the commencement of a breakwater and harbor of refuge , to be located at some point between the Straits of Fuca and San Francisco at which the necessities of commerce , local and general , will be best accommodated . The amount appropriated is thought to be quite inadequate for the purpose intended . The cost of the work , when finished , will be very great , owing to the want of natural advantages for a site at any point on the coast between the designated limits , and it has not been thought to be advisable to undertake the work without a larger appropriation . I commend the matter to the attention of Congress . The completion of the new building for the War Department is urgently needed , and the estimates for continuing its construction are especially recommended . The collections of books , specimens , and records constituting the Army Medical Museum and Library are of national importance . The library now contains about 51 , 500 volumes and 57 , 000 pamphlets relating to medicine , surgery , and allied topics . The contents of the Army Medical Museum consist of 22 , 000 specimens , and are unique in the completeness with which both military surgery and the diseases of armies are illustrated . Their destruction would be an irreparable loss , not only to the United States , but to the world . There are filed in the Record and Pension Division over 16 , 000 bound volumes of hospital records , together with a great quantity of papers , embracing the original records of the hospitals of our armies during the civil war . Aside from their historical value , these records are daily searched for evidence needed in the settlement of large numbers of pension and other claims , for the protection of the Government against attempted frauds , as well as for the benefit of honest claimants . These valuable collections are now in a building which is peculiarly exposed to the danger of destruction by fire . It is therefore earnestly recommended that an appropriation be made for a new fireproof building , adequate for the present needs and reasonable future expansion of these valuable collections . Such a building should be absolutely fireproof no expenditure for mere architectural display is required . It is believed that a suitable structure can be erected at a cost not to exceed 250 , 000 . I commend to the attention of Congress the great services of the Commander in Chief of our armies during the war for the Union , whose wise , firm , and patriotic conduct did so much to bring that momentous conflict to a close . The legislation of the United States contains many precedents for the recognition of distinguished military merit , authorizing rank and emoluments to be conferred for eminent services to the country . An act of Congress authorizing the appointment of a Captain General of the Army , with suitable provisions relating to compensation , retirement , and other details , would , in my judgment , be altogether fitting and proper , and would be warmly approved by the country . The report of the Secretary of the Navy exhibits the successful and satisfactory management of that Department during the last fiscal year . The total expenditures for the year were 12 , 916 , 639 . 45 , leaving unexpended at the close of the year 2 , 141 , 682 . 23 of the amount of available appropriations . The appropriations for the present fiscal year , ending June 30 , 1881 , are 15 , 095 , 061 . 45 , and the total estimates for the next fiscal year , ending June 30 , 1882 , are 15 , 953 , 751 . 61 . The amount drawn by warrant from July 1 , 1880 , to November 1 , 1880 , is 5 , 041 , 570 . 45 . The recommendation of the Secretary of the Navy that provision be made for the establishment of some form of civil government for the people of Alaska is approved . At present there is no protection of persons or property in that Territory except such as is afforded by the officers of the United States ship Jamestown . This vessel was dispatched to Sitka because of the fear that without the immediate presence of the national authority there was impending danger of anarchy . The steps taken to restore order have been accepted in good faith by both white and Indian inhabitants , and the necessity for this method of restraint does not , in my opinion , now exist . If , however , the Jamestown should be withdrawn , leaving the people , as at present , without the ordinary judicial and administrative authority of organized local government , serious consequences might ensue . The laws provide only for the collection of revenue , the protection of public property , and the transmission of the mails . The problem is to supply a local rule for a population so scattered and so peculiar in its origin and condition . The natives are reported to be teachable and self supporting , and if properly instructed doubtless would advance rapidly in civilization , and a new factor of prosperity would be added to the national life . I therefore recommend the requisite legislation upon this subject . The Secretary of the Navy has taken steps toward the establishment of naval coaling stations at the Isthmus of Panama , to meet the requirements of our commercial relations with Central and South America , which are rapidly growing in importance . Locations eminently suitable , both as regards our naval purposes and the uses of commerce , have been selected , one on the east side of the Isthmus , at Chiriqui Lagoon , in the Caribbean Sea , and the other on the Pacific coast , at the Bay of Golfito . The only safe harbors , sufficiently commodious , on the Isthmus are at these points , and the distance between them is less than 100 miles . The report of the Secretary of the Navy concludes with valuable suggestions with respect to the building up of our merchant marine service , which deserve the favorable consideration of Congress . The report of the Postmaster General exhibits the continual growth and the high state of efficiency of the postal service . The operations of no Department of the Government , perhaps , represent with greater exactness the increase in the population and the business of the country . In 1860 the postal receipts were 8 , 518 , 067 . 40 in 1880 the receipts were 33 , 315 , 479 . 34 . All the inhabitants of the country are directly and personally interested in having proper mail facilities , and naturally watch the Post Office very closely . This careful oversight on the part of the people has proved a constant stimulus to improvement . During the past year there was an increase of 2 , 134 post offices , and the mail routes were extended 27 , 177 miles , making an additional annual transportation of 10 , 804 , 191 miles . The revenues of the postal service for the ensuing year are estimated at 38 , 845 , 174 . 10 , and the expenditures at 42 , 475 , 932 , leaving a deficiency to be appropriated out of the Treasury of 3 , 630 , 757 . 90 . The Universal Postal Union has received the accession of almost all the countries and colonies of the world maintaining organized postal services , and it is confidently expected that all the other countries and colonies now outside the union will soon unite therewith , thus realizing the grand idea and aim of the founders of the union of forming , for purposes of international mail communication , a single postal territory , embracing the world , with complete uniformity of postal charges and conditions of international exchange for all descriptions of correspondence . To enable the United States to do its full share of this great work , additional legislation is asked by the Postmaster General , to whose recommendations especial attention is called . The suggestion of the Postmaster General that it would be wise to encourage , by appropriate legislation , the establishment of American lines of steamers by our own citizens to carry the mails between our own ports and those of Mexico , Central America , South America , and of transpacific countries is commended to the serious consideration of Congress . The attention of Congress is also invited to the suggestions of the Postmaster General in regard to postal savings . The necessity for additional provision to aid in the transaction of the business of the Federal courts becomes each year more apparent . The dockets of the Supreme Court and of the circuit courts in the greater number of the circuits are encumbered with the constant accession of cases . In the former court , and in many instances in the circuit courts , years intervene before it is practicable to bring cases to hearing . The Attorney General recommends the establishment of an intermediate court of errors and appeals . It is recommended that the number of judges of the circuit court in each circuit , with the exception of the second circuit , should be increased by the addition of another judge in the second circuit , that two should be added and that an intermediate appellate court should be formed in each circuit , to consist of the circuit judges and the circuit justice , and that in the event of the absence of either of these judges the place of the absent judge should be supplied by the judge of one of the district courts in the circuit . Such an appellate court could be safely invested with large jurisdiction , and its decisions would satisfy suitors in many cases where appeals would still be allowed to the Supreme Court . The expense incurred for this intermediate court will require a very moderate increase of the appropriations for the expenses of the Department of Justice . This recommendation is commended to the careful consideration of Congress . It is evident that a delay of justice , in many instances oppressive and disastrous to suitors , now necessarily occurs in the Federal courts , which will in this way be remedied . The report of the Secretary of the Interior presents an elaborate account of the operations of that Department during the past year . It gives me great pleasure to say that our Indian affairs appear to be in a more hopeful condition now than ever before . The Indians have made gratifying progress in agriculture , herding , and mechanical pursuits . Many who were a few years ago in hostile conflict with the Government are quietly settling down on farms where they hope to make their permanent homes , building houses and engaging in the occupations of civilized life . The introduction of the freighting business among them has been remarkably fruitful of good results , in giving many of them congenial and remunerative employment and in stimulating their ambition to earn their own support . Their honesty , fidelity , and efficiency as carriers are highly praised . The organization of a police force of Indians has been equally successful in maintaining law and order upon the reservations and in exercising a wholesome moral influence among the Indians themselves . I concur with the Secretary of the Interior in the recommendation that the pay of this force be increased , as an inducement to the best class of young men to enter it . Much care and attention has been devoted to the enlargement of educational . facilities for the Indians . The means available for this important object have been very inadequate . A few additional boarding schools at Indian agencies have been established and the erection of buildings has been begun for several more but an increase of the appropriations for this interesting undertaking is greatly needed to accommodate the large number of Indian children of school age . The number offered by their parents from all parts of the country for education in the Government schools is much larger than can be accommodated with the means at present available for that purpose . The number of Indian pupils at the normal school at Hampton , Va . , under the direction of General Armstrong , has been considerably increased , and their progress is highly encouraging . The Indian school established by the Interior Department in 1879 at Carlisle , Pa . , under the direction of Captain Pratt , has been equally successful . It has now nearly 200 pupils of both sexes , representing a great variety of the tribes east of the Rocky Mountains . The pupils in both these institutions receive not only an elementary English education , but are also instructed in housework , agriculture , and useful mechanical pursuits . A similar school was established this year at Forest Grove , Oreg . , for the education of Indian youth on the Pacific Coast . In addition to this , thirty six Indian boys and girls were selected from the Eastern Cherokees and placed in boarding schools in North Carolina , where they are to receive an elementary English education and training in industrial pursuits . The interest shown by Indian parents , even among the so called wild tribes , in the education of their children is very gratifying , and gives promise that the results accomplished by the efforts now making will be of lasting benefit . The expenses of Indian education have so far been drawn from the permanent civilization fund at the disposal of the Department of the Interior , but the fund is now so much reduced that the continuance of this beneficial work will in the future depend on specific appropriations by Congress for the purpose and I venture to express the hope that Congress will not permit institutions so fruitful of good results to perish for want of means for their support . On the contrary , an increase of the number of such schools appears to me highly advisable . The past year has been unusually free from disturbances among the Indian tribes . An agreement has been made with the Utes by which they surrender their large reservation in Colorado in consideration of an annuity to be paid to them , and agree to settle in severally on certain lands designated for that purpose , as farmers , holding individual title to their land in fee simple , inalienable for a certain period . In this way a costly Indian war has been avoided , which at one time seemed imminent , and for the first time in the history of the country an Indian nation has given up its tribal existence to be settled in severally and to live as individuals under the common protection of the laws of the country . The conduct of the Indians throughout the country during the past year , with but few noteworthy exceptions , has been orderly and peaceful . The guerrilla warfare carried on for two years by Victoria and his band of Southern Apaches has virtually come to an end by the death of that chief and most of his followers on Mexican soil . The disturbances caused on our northern frontier by Sitting Bull and his men , who had taken refuge in the British dominions , are also likely to cease . A large majority of his followers have surrendered to our military forces , and the remainder are apparently in progress of disintegration . I concur with the Secretary of the Interior in expressing the earnest hope that Congress will at this session take favorable action on the bill providing for the allotment of lands on the different reservations in severally to the Indians , with patents conferring fee simple title inalienable for a certain period , and the eventual disposition of the residue of the reservations for general settlement , with the consent and for the benefit of the Indians , placing the latter under the equal protection of the laws of the country . This measure , together with a vigorous prosecution of our educational efforts , will work the most important and effective advance toward the solution of the Indian problem , in preparing for the gradual merging of our Indian population in the great body of American citizenship . A large increase is reported in the disposal of public lands for settlement during the past year , which marks the prosperous growth of our agricultural industry and a vigorous movement of population toward our unoccupied lands . As this movement proceeds , the codification of our land laws , as well as proper legislation to regulate the disposition of public lands , become of more pressing necessity , and I therefore invite the consideration of Congress to the report and the accompanying draft of a bill made by the Public Lands Commission , which were communicated by me to Congress at the last session . Early action upon this important subject is highly desirable . The attention of Congress is again asked to the wasteful depredations committed on our public timber lands and the rapid and indiscriminate destruction of our forests . The urgent necessity for legislation to this end is now generally recognized . In view of the lawless character of the depredations committed and the disastrous consequences which will inevitably follow their continuance , legislation has again and again been recommended to arrest the evil and to preserve for the people of our Western States and Territories the timber needed for domestic and other essential uses . The report of the Director of the Geological Survey is a document of unusual interest . The consolidation of the various geological and geographical surveys and exploring enterprises , each of which has heretofore operated upon an independent plan , without concert , can not fail to be of great benefit to all those industries of the country which depend upon the development of our mineral resources . The labors of the scientific men , of recognized merit , who compose the corps of the Geological Survey , during the first season of their field operations and inquiries , appear to have been very comprehensive , and will soon be communicated to Congress in a number of volumes . The Director of the Survey recommends that the investigations carried on by his bureau , which so far have been confined to the so called public land States and Territories , be extended over the entire country , and that the necessary appropriation be made for this purpose . This would be particularly beneficial to the iron , coal , and other mining interests of the Mississippi Valley and of the Eastern and Southern States . The subject is commended to the careful consideration of Congress . The Secretary of the Interior asks attention to the want of room in the public buildings of the capital , now existing and in progress of construction , for the accommodation of the clerical force employed and of the public records . Necessity has compelled the renting of private buildings in different parts of the city for the location of public offices , for which a large amount of rent is annually paid , while the separation of offices belonging to the same Department impedes the transaction of current business . The Secretary suggests that the blocks surrounding Lafayette Square on the east , north , and west be purchased as the sites for new edifices for the accommodation of the Government offices , leaving the square itself intact , and that if such buildings were constructed upon a harmonious plan of architecture they would add much to the beauty of the national capital , and would , together with the Treasury and the new State , Navy , and War Department building , form one of the most imposing groups of public edifices in the world . The Commissioner of Agriculture expresses the confident belief that his efforts in behalf of the production of our own sugar and tea have been encouragingly rewarded . The importance of the results attained have attracted marked attention at home and have received the special consideration of foreign nations . The successful cultivation of our own tea and the manufacture of our own sugar would make a difference of many millions of dollars annually in the wealth of the nation . The report of the Commissioner asks attention particularly to the continued prevalence of an infectious and contagious cattle disease known and dreaded in Europe and Asia as cattle plague , or pleuro pneumonia . A mild type of this disease in certain sections of our country is the occasion of great loss to our farmers and of serious disturbance to our trade with Great Britain , which furnishes a market for most of our live stock and dressed meats . The value of neat cattle exported from the United States for the eight months ended August 31 , 1880 , was more than 12 , 000 , 000 , and nearly double the value for the same period in 1879 an unexampled increase of export trade . Your early attention is solicited to this important matter . The Commissioner of Education reports a continued increase of public interest in educational affairs , and that the public schools generally throughout the country are well sustained . Industrial training is attracting deserved attention , and colleges for instruction , theoretical and practical , in agriculture and mechanic arts , including the Government schools recently established for the instruction of Indian youth , are gaining steadily in public estimation . The Commissioner asks special attention to the depredations committed on the lands reserved for the future support of public instruction , and to the very great need of help from the nation for schools in the Territories and in the Southern States . The recommendation heretofore made is repeated and urged , that an educational fund be set apart from the net proceeds of the sales of the public lands annually , the income of which and the remainder of the net annual proceeds to be distributed on some satisfactory plan to the States and the Territories and the District of Columbia . The success of the public schools of the District of Columbia , and the progress made , under the intelligent direction of the board of education and the superintendent , in supplying the educational requirements of the District with thoroughly trained and efficient teachers , is very gratifying . The acts of Congress , from time to time , donating public lands to the several States and Territories in aid of educational interests have proved to be wise measures of public policy , resulting in great and lasting benefit . It would seem to be a matter of simple justice to extend the benefits of this legislation , the wisdom of which has been so fully vindicated by experience , to the District of Columbia . I again commend the general interests of the District of Columbia to the favorable consideration of Congress . The affairs of the District , as shown by the report of the Commissioners , are in a very satisfactory condition . In my annual messages heretofore and in my special message of December 19 , 1879 , I have urged upon the attention of Congress the necessity of reclaiming the marshes of the Potomac adjacent to the capital , and I am constrained by its importance to advert again to the subject . These flats embrace an area of several hundred acres . They are an impediment to the drainage of the city and seriously impair its health . It is believed that with this substantial improvement of its river front the capital would be in all respects one of the most attractive cities in the world . Aside from its permanent population , this city is necessarily the place of residence of persons from every section of the country engaged in the public service . Many others reside here temporarily for the transaction of business with the Government . It should not be forgotten that the land acquired will probably be worth the cost of reclaiming it and that the navigation of the river will be greatly improved . I therefore again invite the attention of Congress to the importance of prompt provision for this much needed and too long delayed improvement . The water supply of the city is inadequate . In addition to the ordinary use throughout the city , the consumption by Government is necessarily very great in the navy yard , arsenal , and the various Departments , and a large quantity is required for the proper preservation of the numerous parks and the cleansing of sewers . I recommend that this subject receive the early attention of Congress , and that in making provision for an increased supply such means be adopted as will have in view the future growth of the city . Temporary expedients for such a purpose can not but be wasteful of money , and therefore unwise . A more ample reservoir , with corresponding facilities for keeping it filled , should , in my judgment , be constructed . I commend again to the attention of Congress the subject of the removal from their present location of the depots of the several railroads entering the city and I renew the recommendations of my former messages in behalf of the erection of a building for the Congressional Library , the completion of the Washington Monument , and of liberal appropriations in support of the benevolent , reformatory , and penal institutions of the District .<speech_sep>To the House of Representatives After a very careful consideration of House bill 2423 , entitled An act to restrict the immigration of Chinese to the United States , I herewith return it to the House of Representatives , in which it originated , with my objections to its passage . The bill , as it was sent to the Senate from the House of Representatives , was confined in its provisions to the object named in its title , which is that of An act to restrict the immigration of Chinese to the United States . The only means adopted to secure the proposed object was the limitation on the number of Chinese passengers which might be brought to this country by any one vessel to fifteen and as this number was not fixed in any proportion to the size or tonnage of the vessel or by any consideration of the safety or accommodation of these passengers , the simple purpose and effect of the enactment were to repress this immigration to an extent falling but little short of its absolute exclusion . The bill , as amended in the Senate and now presented to me , includes an independent and additional provision which aims at and in terms requires the abrogation by this Government of Articles V and VI of the treaty with China commonly called the Burlingame treaty , through the action of the Executive enjoined by this provision of the act . The Burlingame treaty , of which the ratifications were exchanged at Peking November 23 , 1869 , recites as the occasion and motive of its negotiation by the two Governments that since the conclusion of the treaty between the United States of America and the Ta Tsing Empire China of the 18th of June , 1858 , circumstances have arisen showing the necessity of additional articles thereto , and proceeds to an agree merit as to said additional articles . These negotiations , therefore , ending by the signature of the additional articles July 28 , 1868 , had for their object the completion of our treaty rights and obligations toward the Government of China by the incorporation of these new articles as thenceforth parts of the principal treaty to which they are made supplemental . Upon the settled rules of interpretation applicable to such supplemental negotiations the text of the principal treaty and of these additional articles thereto constitute one treaty from the conclusion of the new negotiations , in all parts of equal and concurrent force and obligation between the two Governments , and to all intents and purposes as if embraced in one instrument . The principal treaty , of which the ratifications were exchanged August 16 , 1859 , recites that the United States of America and the Ta Tsing Empire , desiring to maintain firm lasting , and sincere friendship , have resolved to renew , in a manner clear and positive , by means of a treaty or general convention of peace , amity , and commerce , the rules which shall in future be mutually observed in the intercourse of their respective countries , and proceeds in its thirty articles to lay out a careful and comprehensive system for the commercial relations of our people with China . The main substance of all the provisions of this treaty is to define and secure the rights of our people in respect of access to , residence and protection in , and trade with China . The actual provisions in our favor in these respects were framed to be , and have been found to be , adequate and appropriate to the interests of our commerce and by the concluding article we receive the important guaranty that Should at any time the Ta Tsing Empire grant to any nation , or the merchants or citizens of any nation , any right , privilege , or favor , connected either with navigation , commerce , political or other intercourse , which is not conferred by this treaty , such right , privilege , and favor shall at once freely inure to the benefit of the United States , its public officers , merchants , and citizens . Against this body of stipulations in our favor and this permanent engagement of equality in respect of all future concessions to foreign nations the general promise of permanent peace and good offices on our part seems to be the only equivalent . For this the first article undertakes as follows There shall be , as there have always been , peace and friendship between the United States of America and the Ta Tsing Empire , and between their people respectively . They shall not insult or oppress each other for any trifling cause , so as to produce an estrangement between them and if any other nation should act unjustly or oppressively , the United States will exert their good offices , on being informed of the case , to bring about an amicable arrangement of the question , thus showing their friendly feelings . At the date of the negotiation of this treaty our Pacific possessions had attracted a considerable Chinese emigration , and the advantages and the inconveniences felt or feared therefrom had become more or less manifest but they dictated no stipulations on the subject to be incorporated in the treaty . The year 1868 was marked by the striking event of a spontaneous embassy from the Chinese Empire , headed by an American citizen , Anson Burlingame , who had relinquished his diplomatic representation of his own country in China to assume that of the Chinese Empire to the United States and the European nations . By this time the facts of the Chinese immigration and its nature and influences , present and prospective , had become more noticeable and were more observed by the population immediately affected and by this Government . The principal feature of the Burlingame treaty was its attention to and its treatment of the Chinese immigration and the Chinese as forming , or as they should form , a part of our population . Up to this time our uncovenanted hospitality to immigration , our fearless liberality of citizenship , our equal and comprehensive justice to all inhabitants , whether they abjured their foreign nationality or not , our civil freedom , and our religious toleration had made all comers welcome , and under these protections the Chinese in considerable numbers had made their lodgment upon our soil . The Burlingame treaty undertakes to deal with this situation , and its fifth and sixth articles embrace its most important provisions in this regard and the main stipulations in which the Chinese Government has secured an obligatory protection of its subjects within our territory . They read as follows ARThe United States of America and the Emperor of China cordially recognize the inherent and inalienable right of man to change his home and allegiance , and also the mutual advantage of the free migration and emigration of their citizens and subjects respectively from the one country to the other for purposes of curiosity , of trade , or as permanent residents . The high contracting parties therefore join in reprobating any other than an entirely voluntary emigration for these purposes . They consequently agree to pass laws making it a penal offense for a citizen of the United States or Chinese subjects to take Chinese subjects either to the United States or to any other foreign country , or for a Chinese subject or citizen of the United States to take citizens of the United States to China or to any other foreign country , without their free and voluntary consent , respectively . ARVCitizens of the United States visiting or residing in China shall enjoy the same privileges , immunities , or exemptions in respect to travel or residence as may there be enjoyed by the citizens or subjects of the most favored nation , and , reciprocally , Chinese subjects visiting or residing in the United States shall enjoy the same privileges , immunities , and exemptions in respect to travel or residence as may there be enjoyed by the citizens or subjects of the most favored nation . But nothing herein contained shall be held to confer naturalization upon citizens of the United States in China , nor upon the subjects of China in the United States . An examination of these two articles in the light of the experience then influential in suggesting their necessity will show that the fifth article was framed in hostility to what seemed the principal mischief to be guarded against , to wit , the introduction of Chinese laborers by methods which should have the character of a forced and servile importation , and not of a voluntary emigration of freemen seeking our shores upon motives and in a manner consonant with the system of our institutions and approved by the experience of the nation . Unquestionably the adhesion of the Government of China to these liberal principles of freedom in emigration , with which we were so familiar and with which we were so well satisfied , was a great advance toward opening that Empire to our civilization and religion , and gave promise in the future of greater and greater practical results in the diffusion throughout that great population of our arts and industries , our manufactures , our material improvements , and the sentiments of government and religion which seem to us so important to the welfare of mankind . The first clause of this article secures this acceptance by China of the American doctrines of free migration to and fro among the peoples and races of the earth . The second clause , however , in its reprobation of any other than an entirely voluntary emigration by both the high contracting parties , and in the reciprocal obligations whereby we secured the solemn and unqualified engagement on the part of the Government of China to pass laws making it a penal offense for a citizen of the United States or Chinese subjects to take Chinese subjects either to the United States or to any other foreign country without their free and voluntary consent , constitutes the great force and value of this article . Its importance both in principle and in its practical service toward our protection against servile importation in the guise of immigration can not be overestimated . It commits the Chinese Government to active and efficient measures to suppress this iniquitous system , where those measures are most necessary and can be most effectual . It gives to this Government the footing of a treaty right to such measures and the means and opportunity of insisting upon their adoption and of complaint and resentment at their neglect . The fifth article , therefore , if it fall short of what the pressure of the later experience of our Pacific States may urge upon the attention of this Government as essential to the public welfare , seems to be in the right direction and to contain important advantages which once relinquished can not be easily recovered . The second topic which interested the two Governments under the actual condition of things which prompted the Burlingame treaty was adequate protection , under the solemn and definite guaranties of a treaty , of the Chinese already in this country and those who should seek our shores . This was the object , and forms the subject of the sixth article , by whose reciprocal engagement the citizens and subjects of the two Governments , respectively , visiting or residing in the country of the other are secured the same privileges , immunities , or exemptions there enjoyed by the citizens or subjects of the most favored nations . The treaty of 1858 , to which these articles are made supplemental , provides for a great amount of privilege and protection , both of person and property , to American citizens in China , but it is upon this sixth article that the main body of the treaty rights and securities of the Chinese already in this country depends . Its abrogation , were the rest of the treaty left in force , would leave them to such treatment as we should voluntarily accord them by our laws and customs . Any treaty obligation would be wanting to restrain our liberty of action toward them , or to measure or sustain the right of the Chinese Government to complaint or redress in their behalf . The lapse of ten years since the negotiation of the Burlingame treaty has exhibited to the notice of the Chinese Government , as well as to our own people , the working of this experiment of immigration in great numbers of Chinese laborers to this country , and their maintenance here of all the traits of race , religion , manners , and customs , habitations , mode of life , segregation here , and the keeping up of the ties of their original home , which stamp them as strangers and sojourners , and not as incorporated elements of our national life and growth . This experience may naturally suggest the reconsideration of the subject as dealt with by the Burlingame treaty , and may properly become the occasion of more direct and circumspect recognition , in renewed negotiations , of the difficulties surrounding this political and social problem . It may well be that , to the apprehension of the Chinese Government no less than our own , the simple provisions of the Burlingame treaty may need to be replaced by more careful methods , securing the Chinese and ourselves against a larger and more rapid infusion of this foreign race than our system of industry and society can take up and assimilate with ease and safety . This ancient Government , ruling a polite and sensitive people , distinguished by a high sense of national pride , may properly desire an adjustment of their relations with us which would in all things confirm and in no degree endanger the permanent peace and amity and the growing commerce and prosperity which it has been the object and the effect of our existing treaties to cherish and perpetuate . I regard the very grave discontents of the people of the Pacific States with the present working of the Chinese immigration , and their still graver apprehensions therefrom in the future , as deserving the most serious attention of the people of the whole country and a solicitous interest on the part of Congress and the Executive . If this were not my own judgment , the passage of this bill by both Houses of Congress would impress upon me the seriousness of the situation , when a majority of the representatives of the people of the whole country had thought fit to justify so serious a measure of relief . The authority of Congress to terminate a treaty with a foreign power by expressing the will of the nation no longer to adhere to it is as free from controversy under our Constitution as is the further proposition that the power of making new treaties or modifying existing treaties is not lodged by the Constitution in Congress , but in the President , by and with the advice and consent of the Senate , as shown by the concurrence of two thirds of that body . A denunciation of a treaty by any government is confessedly justifiable only upon some reason both of the highest justice and of the highest necessity . The action of Congress in the matter of the French treaties in 1798 , if it be regarded as an abrogation by this nation of a subsisting treaty , strongly illustrates the character and degree of justification which was then thought suitable to such a proceeding . The preamble of the act recites that the Treaties concluded between the United States and France have been repeatedly violated on the part of the French Government , and the just claims of the United States for reparation of the injuries so committed have been refused , and their attempts to negotiate an amicable adjustment of all complaints between the two nations have been repelled with indignity . And that Under authority of the French Government there is yet pursued against the United States a system of predatory violence , infracting the said treaties and hostile to the rights of a free and independent nation . The enactment , as a logical consequence of these recited facts , declares That the United States are of right freed and exonerated from the stipulations of the treaties and of the consular convention heretofore concluded between the United States and France , and that the same shall not henceforth be regarded as legally obligatory on the Government or citizens of the United States . The history of the Government shows no other instance of an abrogation of a treaty by Congress . Instances have sometimes occurred where the ordinary legislation of Congress has , by its conflict with some treaty obligation of the Government toward a foreign power , taken effect as an infraction of the treaty , and been judicially declared to be operative to that result but neither such legislation nor such judicial sanction of the same has been regarded as an abrogation , even for the moment , of the treaty . On the contrary , the treaty in such case still subsists between the governments , and the casual infraction is repaired by appropriate satisfaction in maintenance of the treaty . The bill before me does not enjoin upon the President the abrogation of the entire Burlingame treaty , much less of the principal treaty of which it is made the supplement . As the power of modifying an existing treaty , whether by adding or striking out provisions , is a part of the treaty making power under the Constitution , its exercise is not competent for Congress , nor would the assent of China to this partial abrogation of the treaty make the action of Congress in thus procuring an amendment of a treaty a competent exercise of authority under the Constitution . The importance , however , of this special consideration seems superseded by the principle that a denunciation of a part of a treaty not made by the terms of the treaty itself separable from the rest is a denunciation of the whole treaty . As the other high contracting party has entered into no treaty obligations except such as include the part denounced , the denunciation by one party of the part necessarily liberates the other party from the whole treaty . I am convinced that , whatever urgency might in any quarter or by any interest be supposed to require an instant suppression of further immigration from China , no reasons can require the immediate withdrawal of our treaty protection of the Chinese already in this country , and no circumstances can tolerate an exposure of our citizens in China , merchants or missionaries , to the consequences of so sudden an abrogation of their treaty protection . Fortunately , however , the actual recession in the flow of the emigration from China to the Pacific Coast , shown by trustworthy statistics , relieves us from any apprehension that the treatment of the subject in the proper course of diplomatic negotiations will introduce any new features of discontent or disturbance among the communities directly affected . Were such delay fraught with more inconveniences than have ever been suggested by the interests most earnest in promoting this legislation , I can not but regard the summary disturbance of our existing treaties with China as greatly more inconvenient to much wider and more permanent interests of the country . I have no occasion to insist upon the more general considerations of interest and duty which sacredly guard the faith of the nation , in whatever form of obligation it may have been given . These sentiments animate the deliberations of Congress and pervade the minds of our whole people . Our history gives little occasion for any reproach in this regard and in asking the renewed attention of Congress to this bill I am persuaded that their action will maintain the public duty and the public honor .<speech_sep>Fellow Citizens of the Senate and House of Representatives Our heartfelt gratitude is due to the Divine Being who holds in His hands the destinies of nations for the continued bestowal during the last year of countless blessings upon our country . We are at peace with all other nations . Our public credit has greatly improved , and is perhaps now stronger than ever before . Abundant harvests have rewarded the labors of those who till the soil , our manufacturing industries are reviving , and it is believed that general prosperity , which has been so long anxiously looked for , is at last within our reach . The enjoyment of health by our people generally has , however , been interrupted during the past season by the prevalence of a fatal pestilence the yellow fever in some portions of the Southern States , creating an emergency which called for prompt and extraordinary measures of relief . The disease appeared as an epidemic at New Orleans and at other places on the Lower Mississippi soon after midsummer . It was rapidly spread by fugitives from the infected cities and towns , and did not disappear until early in November . The States of Louisiana , Mississippi , and Tennessee have suffered severely . About 100 , 000 cases are believed to have occurred , of which about 20 , 000 , according to intelligent estimates , proved fatal . It is impossible to estimate with any approach to accuracy the loss to the country occasioned by this epidemic It is to be reckoned by the hundred millions of dollars . The suffering and destitution that resulted excited the deepest sympathy in all parts of the Union . Physicians and nurses hastened from every quarter to the assistance of the afflicted communities . Voluntary contributions of money and supplies , in every needed form , were speedily and generously furnished . The Government was able to respond in some measure to the call for help , by providing tents , medicines , and food for the sick and destitute , the requisite directions for the purpose being given in the confident expectation that this action of the Executive would receive the sanction of Congress . About 1 , 800 tents , and rations of the value of about 25 , 000 , were sent to cities and towns which applied for them , full details of which will be furnished to Congress by the proper Department . The fearful spread of this pestilence has awakened a very general public sentiment in favor of national sanitary administration , which shall not only control quarantine , but have the sanitary supervision of internal commerce in times of epidemics , and hold an advisory relation to the State and municipal health authorities , with power to deal with whatever endangers the public health , and which the municipal and State authorities are unable to regulate . The national quarantine act approved April 29 , 1878 , which was passed too late in the last session of Congress to provide the means for carrying it into practical operation during the past season , is a step in the direction here indicated . In view of the necessity for the most effective measures , by quarantine and otherwise , for the protection of our seaports and the country generally from this and other epidemics , it is recommended that Congress give to the whole subject early and careful consideration . The permanent pacification of the country by the complete protection of all citizens in every civil and political right continues to be of paramount interest with the great body of our people . Every step in this direction is welcomed with public approval , and every interruption of steady and uniform progress to the desired consummation awakens general uneasiness and widespread condemnation . The recent Congressional elections have furnished a direct and trustworthy test of the advance thus far made in the practical establishment of the right of suffrage secured by the Constitution to the liberated race in the Southern States . All disturbing influences , real or imaginary , had been removed from all of these States . The three constitutional amendments which conferred freedom and equality of civil and political rights upon the colored people of the South were adopted by the concurrent action of the great body of good citizens who maintained the authority of the National Government and the integrity and perpetuity of the Union at such a cost of treasure and life , as a wise and necessary embodiment in the organic law of the just results of the war . The people of the former slaveholding States accepted these results , and gave in every practicable form assurances that the thirteenth , fourteenth , and fifteenth amendments , and laws passed in pursuance thereof , should in good faith be enforced , rigidly and impartially , in letter and spirit , to the end that the humblest citizen , without distinction of race or color , should under them receive full and equal protection in person and property and in political rights and privileges . By these constitutional amendments the southern section of the Union obtained a large increase of political power in Congress and in the electoral college , and the country justly expected that elections would proceed , as to the enfranchised race , upon the same circumstances of legal and constitutional freedom and protection which obtained in all the other States of the Union . The friends of law and order looked forward to the conduct of these elections as offering to the general judgment of the country an important opportunity to measure the degree in which the right of suffrage could be exercised by the colored people and would be respected by their fellow citizens but a more general enjoyment of freedom of suffrage by the colored people and a more just and generous protection of that freedom by the communities of which they form a part were generally anticipated than the record of the elections discloses . In some of those States in which the colored people have been unable to make their opinions felt in the elections the result is mainly due to influences not easily measured or remedied by legal protection but in the States of Louisiana and South Carolina at large , and in some particular Congressional districts outside of those States , the records of the elections seem to compel the conclusion that the rights of the colored voters have been overridden and their participation in the elections not permitted to be either general or free . It will be for the Congress for which these elections were held to make such examinations into their conduct as may be appropriate to determine the validity of the claims of members to their seats . In the meanwhile it becomes the duty of the executive and judicial departments of the Government , each in its province , to inquire into and punish violations of the laws of the United States which have occurred . I can but repeat what I said in this connection in my last message , that whatever authority rests with me to this end I shall not hesitate to put forth and I am unwilling to forego a renewed appeal to the legislatures , the courts , the executive authorities , and the people of the States where these wrongs have been perpetrated to give their assistance toward bringing to justice the offenders and preventing a repetition of the crimes . No means within my power will be spared to obtain a full and fair investigation of the alleged crimes and to secure the conviction and just punishment of the guilty . It is to be observed that the principal appropriation made for the Department of Justice at the last session contained the following clause And for defraying the expenses which may be incurred in the enforcement of the act approved February 28 , 1871 , entitled An act to amend an act approved May 31 , 1870 , entitled An act to enforce the rights of citizens of the United States to vote in the several States of this Union , and for other purposes , or any acts amendatory thereof or supplementary thereto . It is the opinion of the Attorney General that the expenses of these proceedings will largely exceed the amount which was thus provided , and I rely confidently upon Congress to make adequate appropriations to enable the executive department to enforce the laws . I respectfully urge upon your attention that the Congressional elections , in every district , in a very important sense , are justly a matter of political interest and concern throughout the whole country . Each State , every political party , is entitled to the share of power which is conferred by the legal and constitutional suffrage . It is the right of every citizen possessing the qualifications prescribed by law to east one unintimidated ballot and to have his ballot honestly counted . So long as the exercise of this power and the enjoyment of this right are common and equal , practically as well as formally , submission to the results of the suffrage will be accorded loyally and cheerfully , and all the departments of Government will feel the true vigor of the popular will thus expressed . No temporary or administrative interests of Government , however urgent or weighty , will ever displace the zeal of our people in defense of the primary rights of citizenship . They understand that the protection of liberty requires the maintenance in full vigor of the manly methods of free speech , free press , and free suffrage , and will sustain the full authority of Government to enforce the laws which are framed to preserve these inestimable rights . The material progress and welfare of the States depend on the protection afforded to their citizens . There can be no peace without such protection , no prosperity without peace , and the whole country is deeply interested in the growth and prosperity of all its parts . While the country has not yet reached complete unity of feeling and reciprocal confidence between the communities so lately and so seriously estranged , I feel an absolute assurance that the tendencies are in that direction , and with increasing force . The power of public opinion will override all political prejudices and all sectional or State attachments in demanding that all over our wide territory the name and character of citizen of the United States shall mean one and the same thing and carry with them unchallenged security and respect . Our relations with other countries continue peaceful . Our neutrality in contests between foreign powers has been maintained and respected . The Universal Exposition held at Paris during the past summer has been attended by large numbers of our citizens . The brief period allowed for the preparation and arrangement of the contributions of our citizens to this great exposition was well employed in energetic and judicious efforts to overcome this disadvantage . These efforts , led and directed by the commissioner general , were remarkably successful , and the exhibition of the products of American industry was creditable and gratifying in scope and character . The reports of the United States commissioners , giving its results in detail , will be duly laid before you . Our participation in this international competition for the favor and the trade of the world may be expected to produce useful and important results in promoting intercourse , friendship , and commerce with other nations . In accordance with the provisions of the act of February 28 , 1878 , three commissioners were appointed to an international conference on the subject of adopting a common ratio between gold and silver , for the purpose of establishing internationally the use of bimetallic money and securing fixity of relative value between those metals . Invitations were addressed to the various governments which had expressed a willingness to participate in its deliberations . The conference held its meetings in Paris in August last . The report of the commissioners , herewith submitted , will show its results . No common ratio between gold and silver could be agreed upon by the conference . The general conclusion was reached that it is necessary to maintain in the world the monetary functions of silver as well as of gold , leaving the selection of the use of one or the other of these two metals , or of both , to be made by each state . Congress having appropriated at its last session the sum of 5 , 500 , 000 to pay the award of the joint commission at Halifax , if , after correspondence with the British Government on the subject of the conformity of the award to the requirements of the treaty and to the terms of the question thereby submitted to the commission , the President shall deem it his duty to make the payment , communications upon these points were addressed to the British Government through the legation of the United States at London . Failing to obtain the concurrence of the British Government in the views of this Government respecting the award , I have deemed it my duty to tender the sum named within the year fixed by the treaty , accompanied by a notice of the grounds of the payment and a protest against any other construction of the same . The correspondence upon this subject will be laid before you . The Spanish Government has officially announced the termination of the insurrection in Cuba and the restoration of peace throughout that island . Confident expectations are expressed of a revival of trade and prosperity , which it is earnestly hoped may prove well rounded . Numerous claims of American citizens for relief for injuries or restoration of property have been among the incidents of the long continued hostilities . Some of these claims are in process of adjustment by Spain , and the others are promised early and careful consideration . The treaty made with Italy in regard to reciprocal consular privileges has been duly ratified and proclaimed . No questions of grave importance have arisen with any other of the European powers . The Japanese Government has been desirous of a revision of such parts of its treaties with foreign powers as relate to commerce , and it is understood has addressed to each of the treaty powers a request to open negotiations with that view . The United States Government has been inclined to regard the matter favorably . Whatever restrictions upon trade with Japan are found injurious to that people can not but affect injuriously nations holding commercial intercourse with them . Japan , after a long period of seclusion , has within the past few years made rapid strides in the path of enlightenment and progress , and , not unreasonably , is looking forward to the time when her relations with the nations of Europe and America shall be assimilated to those which they hold with each other . A treaty looking to this end has been made , which will be submitted for the consideration of the Senate . After an interval of several years the Chinese Government has again sent envoys to the United States . They have been received , and a permanent legation is now established here by that Government . It is not doubted that this step will be of advantage to both nations in promoting friendly relations and removing causes of difference . The treaty with the Samoan Islands , having been duly ratified and accepted on the part of both Governments , is now in operation , and a survey and soundings of the harbor of Pago Pago have been made by a naval vessel of the United States , with a view of its occupation as a naval station if found desirable to the service . Since the resumption of diplomatic relations with Mexico correspondence has been opened and still continues between the two Governments upon the various questions which at one time seemed to endanger their relations . While no formal agreement has been reached as to the troubles on the border , much has been done to repress and diminish them . The effective force of United States troops on the Rio Grande , by a strict and faithful compliance with instructions , has done much to remove the sources of dispute , and it is now understood that a like force of Mexican troops on the other side of the river is also making an energetic movement against the marauding Indian tribes . This Government looks with the greatest satisfaction upon every evidence of strength in the national authority of Mexico , and upon every effort put forth to prevent or to punish incursions upon our territory . Reluctant to assume any action or attitude in the control of these incursions by military movements across the border not imperatively demanded for the protection of the lives and property of our own citizens , I shall take the earliest opportunity consistent with the proper discharge of this plain duty to recognize the ability of the Mexican Government to restrain effectively violations of our territory . It is proposed to hold next year an international exhibition in Mexico , and it is believed that the display of the agricultural and manufacturing products of the two nations will tend to better understanding and increased commercial intercourse between their people . With Brazil and the Republics of Central and South America some steps have been taken toward the development of closer commercial intercourse . Diplomatic relations have been resumed with Colombia and with Bolivia . A boundary question between the Argentine Republic and Paraguay has been submitted by those Governments for arbitration to the President of the United States , and I have , after careful examination , given a decision upon it . A naval expedition up the Amazon and Madeira rivers has brought back information valuable both for scientific and commercial purposes . A like expedition is about visiting the coast of Africa and the Indian Ocean . The reports of diplomatic and consular officers in relation to the development of our foreign commerce have furnished many facts that have proved of public interest and have stimulated to practical exertion the enterprise of our people . The report of the Secretary of the Treasury furnishes a detailed statement of the operations of that Department of the Government and of the condition of the public finances . The ordinary revenues from all sources for the fiscal year ended June 30 , 1878 , were 257 , 763 , 878 . 70 the ordinary expenditures for the same period were 236 , 964 , 326 . 80 , leaving a surplus revenue for the year of 20 , 799 , 551 . 90 . The receipts for the present fiscal year , ending June 30 , 1879 , actual and estimated , are as follows Actual receipts for the first quarter , commencing July 1 , 1878 , 73 , 389 , 743 . 43 estimated receipts for the remaining three quarters of the year , 191 , 110 , 256 . 57 total receipts for the current fiscal year , actual and estimated , 264 , 500 , 000 . The expenditures for the same period will be , actual and estimated , as follows For the quarter commencing July 1 , 1878 , actual expenditures , 73 , 344 , 573 . 27 and for the remaining three quarters of the year the expenditures are estimated at 166 , 755 , 426 . 73 , making the total expenditures 240 , 100 , 000 , and leaving an estimated surplus revenue for the year ending June 30 , 1879 , of 24 , 400 , 000 . The total receipts during the next fiscal year , ending June 30 , 1880 , estimated according to existing laws , will be 264 , 500 , 000 , and the estimated ordinary expenditures for the same period will be 236 , 320 , 412 . 68 , leaving a surplus of 28 , 179 , 587 . 32 for that year . In the foregoing statements of expenditures , actual and estimated , no amount is allowed for the sinking fund provided for by the act approved February 25 , 1862 , which requires that 1 per cent of the entire debt of the United States shall be purchased or paid within each fiscal year , to be set apart as a sinking fund . There has been , however , a substantial compliance with the conditions of the law . By its terms the public debt should have been reduced between 1862 and the close of the last fiscal year 518 , 361 , 806 . 28 the actual reduction of the ascertained debt in that period has been 720 , 644 , 739 . 61 , being in excess of the reduction required by the sinking fund act 202 , 282 , 933 . 33 . The amount of the public debt , less cash in the Treasury , November 1 , 1878 , was 2 , 024 , 200 , 083 . 18 a reduction since the same date last year of 23 , 150 , 617 . 39 . The progress made during the last year in refunding the public debt at lower rates of interest is very gratifying . The amount of 4 per cent bonds sold during the present year prior to November 23 , 1878 , is 100 , 270 , 900 , and 6 per cent bonds , commonly known as five twenties , to an equal amount , have been or will be redeemed as calls mature . It has been the policy of the Department to place the 4 per cent bonds within easy reach of every citizen who desires to invest his savings , whether small or great , in these securities . The Secretary of the Treasury recommends that the law be so modified that small sums may be invested , and that through the post offices or other agents of the Government the freest opportunity may be given in all parts of the country for such investments . The best mode suggested is that the Department be authorized to issue certificates of deposit , of the denomination of 10 , bearing interest at the rate of 3 . 65 per cent per annum and convertible at any time within one year after their issue into the 4 per cent bonds authorized by the refunding act , and to be issued only in exchange for United States notes sent to the Treasury by mail or otherwise . Such a provision of law , supported by suitable regulations , would enable any person readily , without cost or risk , to convert his money into an interest bearing security of the United States , and the money so received could be applied to the redemption of 6 per cent bonds . The coinage of gold during the last fiscal year was 52 , 798 , 980 . The coinage of silver dollars under the act passed February 28 , 1878 , amounted on the 23d of November , 1878 , to 19 , 814 , 550 , of which amount 4 , 984 , 947 are in circulation , and the balance , 14 , 829 . , 603 , is still in the possession of the Government . With views unchanged with regard to the act under which the coinage of silver proceeds , it has been the purpose of the Secretary faithfully to execute the law and to afford a fair trial to the measure . In the present financial condition of the country I am persuaded that the welfare of legitimate business and industry of every description will be best promoted by abstaining from all attempts to make radical changes in the existing financial legislation . Let it be understood that during the coming year the business of the country will be undisturbed by governmental interference with the laws affecting it , and we may confidently expect that the resumption of specie payments , which will take place at the appointed time , will be successfully and easily maintained , and that it will be followed by a healthful and enduring revival of business prosperity . Let the healing influence of time , the inherent energies of our people , and the boundless resources of our country have a fair opportunity , and relief from present difficulties will surely follow . The report of the Secretary of War shows that the Army has been well and economically supplied that our small force has been actively employed and has faithfully performed all the service required of it . The morale of the Army has improved and the number of desertions has materially decreased during the year . The Secretary recommends 1 . That a pension be granted to the widow of the late Lieutenant Henry Benner , Eighteenth Infantry , who lost his life by yellow fever while in command of the steamer . Chambers , sent with supplies for the relief of sufferers in the South from that disease . 2 . The establishment of the annuity scheme for the benefit of the heirs of deceased officers , as suggested by the Paymaster General . 3 . The adoption by Congress of a plan for the publication of the records of the War of the Rebellion , now being prepared for that purpose . 4 . The increase of the extra per diem of soldier teachers employed in post schools , and liberal appropriations for the erection of buildings for schools and libraries at the different posts . 5 . The repeal or amendment of the act of June 18 , 1878 , forbidding the use of the Army as a posse comitatus , or otherwise , for the purpose of executing the laws , except in such cases and under such circumstances as such employment of said force may be expressly authorized by the Constitution or by act of Congress . 6 . The passage of a joint resolution of Congress legalizing the issues of rations , tents , and medicines which were made for the relief of sufferers from yellow fever . 7 . That provision be made for the erection of a fireproof building for the preservation of certain valuable records , now constantly exposed to destruction by fire . These recommendations are all commended to your favorable consideration . The report of the Secretary of the Navy shows that the Navy has improved during the last fiscal year . Work has been done on seventy five vessels , ten of which have been thoroughly repaired and made ready for sea . Two others are in rapid progress toward completion . The total expenditures of the year , including the amount appropriated for the deficiencies of the previous year , were 17 , 468 , 392 . 65 . The actual expenses chargeable to the year , exclusive of these deficiencies , were 13 , 306 , 914 . 09 , or 767 , 199 . 18 less than those of the previous year , and 4 , 928 , 677 . 74 less than the expenses including the deficiencies . The estimates for the fiscal year ending June 30 , 1880 , are 14 , 562 , 381 . 45 , exceeding the appropriations of the present year only 33 , 949 . 75 , which excess is occasioned by the demands of the Naval Academy and the Marine Corps , as explained in the Secretary s report . The appropriations for the present fiscal year are 14 , 528 , 431 . 70 , which , in the opinion of the Secretary , will be ample for all the current expenses of the Department during the year . The amount drawn from the Treasury from July 1 to November 1 , 1878 , is 4 , 740 , 544 . 14 , of which 70 , 980 . 75 has been refunded , leaving as the expenditure for that period 4 , 669 , 563 . 39 , or 520 , 899 . 24 less than the corresponding period of the last fiscal year . The report of the Postmaster General embraces a detailed statement of the operations of the Post Office Department . The expenditures of that Department for the fiscal year ended June 30 , 1878 , were 34 , 165 , 084 . 49 . The receipts , including sales of stamps , money order business , and official stamps , were 29 , 277 , 516 . 95 . The sum of 290 , 436 . 90 , included in the foregoing statement of expenditures , is chargeable to preceding years , so that the actual expenditures for the fiscal year ended June 30 , 1878 , are 33 , 874 , 647 . 59 . The amount drawn from the Treasury on appropriations , in addition to the revenues of the Department , was 5 , 307 , 652 . 82 . The expenditures for the fiscal year ending June 30 , 1880 , are estimated at 36 , 571 , 900 and the receipts from all sources at 30 , 664 , 023 . 90 , leaving a deficiency to be appropriated out of the Treasury of 5 , 907 , 876 . 10 . The report calls attention to the fact that the compensation of postmasters and of railroads for carrying the mail is regulated by law , and that the failure of Congress to appropriate the amounts required for these purposes does not relieve the Government of responsibility , but necessarily increases the deficiency bills which Congress will be called upon to pass . In providing for the postal service the following questions are presented Should Congress annually appropriate a sum for its expenses largely in excess of its revenues , or should such rates of postage be established as will make the Department self sustaining Should the postal service be reduced by excluding from the mails matter which does not pay its way Should the number of post routes be diminished Should other methods be adopted which will increase the revenues or diminish the expenses of the postal service The International Postal Congress which met at Paris May 1 , 1878 , and continued in session until June 4 of the same year , was composed of delegates from nearly all the civilized countries of the world . It adopted a new convention to take the place of the treaty concluded at Berne October 9 , 1874 , which goes into effect on the 1st of April , 1879 , between the countries whose delegates have signed it . It was ratified and approved , by and with the consent of the President , August 13 , 1878 . A synopsis of this Universal Postal Convention will be found in the report of the Postmaster General , and the full text in the appendix thereto . In its origin the Postal Union comprised twenty three countries , having a population of 350 , 000 , 000 people . On the 1st of April next it will comprise forty three countries and colonies , with a population of more than 650 , 000 , 000 people , and will soon , by the accession of the few remaining countries and colonies which maintain organized postal services , constitute in fact as well as in name , as its new title indicates , a universal union , regulating , upon a uniform basis of cheap postage rates , the postal intercourse between all civilized nations . Some embarrassment has arisen out of the conflict between the customs laws of this country and the provisions of the Postal Convention in regard to the transmission of foreign books and newspapers to this country by mail . It is hoped that Congress will be able to devise some means of reconciling the difficulties which have thus been created , so as to do justice to all parties involved . The business of the Supreme Court and of the courts in many of the circuits has increased to such an extent during the past year that additional legislation is imperative to relieve and prevent the delay of justice and possible oppression to suitors which is thus occasioned . The encumbered condition of these dockets is presented anew in the report of the Attorney General , and the remedy suggested is earnestly urged for Congressional action . The creation of additional circuit judges , as proposed , would afford a complete remedy , and would involve an expense , at the present rate of salaries of not more than 60 , 000 a year . The annual reports of the Secretary of the Interior and of the Commissioner of Indian Affairs present an elaborate account of the present condition of the Indian tribes and of that branch of the public service which ministers to their interests . While the conduct of the Indians generally has been orderly and their relations with their neighbors friendly and peaceable , two local disturbances have occurred , which were deplorable in their character , but remained , happily , confined to a comparatively small number of Indians . The discontent among the Bannocks , which led first to some acts of violence on the part of some members of the tribe and finally to the outbreak , appears to have been caused by an insufficiency of food on the reservation , and this insufficiency to have been owing to the inadequacy of the appropriations made by Congress to the wants of the Indians at a time when the Indians were prevented from supplying the deficiency by hunting . After an arduous pursuit by the troops of the United States , and several engagements , the hostile Indians were reduced to subjection , and the larger part of them surrendered themselves as prisoners . In this connection I desire to call attention to the recommendation made by the Secretary of the Interior , that a sufficient fund be placed at the disposal of the Executive , to be used , with proper accountability , at discretion , in sudden emergencies of the Indian service . The other case of disturbance was that of a band of Northern Cheyennes , who suddenly left their reservation in the Indian Territory and marched rapidly through the States of Kansas and Nebraska in the direction of their old hunting grounds , committing murders and other crimes on their way . From documents accompanying the report of the Secretary of the Interior it appears that this disorderly band was as fully supplied with the necessaries of life as the 4 , 700 other Indians who remained quietly on the reservation , and that the disturbance was caused by men of a restless and mischievous disposition among the Indians themselves . Almost the whole of this band have surrendered to the military authorities and it is a gratifying fact that when some of them had taken refuge in the camp of the Red Cloud Sioux , with whom they had been in friendly relations , the Sioux held them as prisoners and readily gave them up to the officers of the United States , thus giving new proof of the loyal spirit which , alarming rumors to the contrary notwithstanding , they have uniformly shown ever since the wishes they expressed at the council of September , 1877 , had been complied with . Both the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of War unite in the recommendation that provision be made by Congress for the organization of a corps of mounted Indian auxiliaries , to be under the control of the Army and to be used for the purpose of keeping the Indians on their reservations and preventing or repressing disturbance on their part . I earnestly concur in this recommendation . It is believed that the organization of such a body of Indian cavalry , receiving a moderate pay from the Government , would considerably weaken the restless element among the Indians by withdrawing from it a number of young men and giving them congenial employment under the Government , it being a matter of experience that Indians in our service almost without exception are faithful in the performance of the duties assigned to them . Such an organization would materially aid the Army in the accomplishment of a task for which its numerical strength is sometimes found insufficient . But while the employment of force for the prevention or repression of Indian troubles is of occasional necessity , and wise preparation should be made to that end , greater reliance must be placed on humane and civilizing agencies for the ultimate solution of what is called the Indian problem . It may be very difficult and require much patient effort to curb the unruly spirit of the savage Indian to the restraints of civilized life , but experience shows that it is not impossible . Many of the tribes which are now quiet and orderly and self supporting were once as savage as any that at present roam over the plains or in the mountains of the far West , and were then considered inaccessible to civilizing influences . It may be impossible to raise them fully up to the level of the white population of the United States but we should not forget that they are the aborigines of the country , and called the soil their own on which our people have grown rich , powerful , and happy . We owe it to them as a moral duty to help them in attaining at least that degree of civilization which they may be able to reach . It is not only our duty , it is also our interest to do so . Indians who have become agriculturists or herdsmen , and feel an interest in property , will thenceforth cease to be a warlike and disturbing element . It is also a well authenticated fact that Indians are apt to be peaceable and quiet when their children are at school , and I am gratified to know , from the expressions of Indians themselves and from many concurring reports , that there is a steadily increasing desire , even among Indians belonging to comparatively wild tribes , to have their children educated . I invite attention to the reports of the Secretary of the Interior and the Commissioner of Indian Affairs touching the experiment recently inaugurated , in taking fifty Indian children , boys and girls , from different tribes , to the Hampton Normal Agricultural Institute in Virginia , where they are to receive an elementary English education and training in agriculture and other useful works , to be returned to their tribes , after the completed course , as interpreters , instructors , and examples . It is reported that the officer charged with the selection of those children might have had thousands of young Indians sent with him had it been possible to make provision for them . I agree with the Secretary of the Interior in saying that the result of this interesting experiment , if favorable , may be destined to become an important factor in the advancement of civilization among the Indians . The question whether a change in the control of the Indian service should be made was at the last session of Congress referred to a committee for inquiry and report . Without desiring to anticipate that report , I venture to express the hope that in the decision of so important a question the views expressed above may not be lost sight of , and that the decision , whatever it may be , will arrest further agitation of this subject , such agitation being apt to produce a disturbing effect upon the service , as well as on the Indians themselves . In the enrollment of the bill making appropriations for sundry civil expenses , at the last session of Congress , that portion which provided for the continuation of the Hot Springs Commission was omitted . As the commission had completed the work of taking testimony on the many conflicting claims , the suspension of their labors , before determining the rights of claimants , threatened for a time to embarrass the interests , not only of the Government , but also of a large number of the citizens of Hot Springs , who were waiting for final action on their claims before beginning contemplated improvements . In order to prevent serious difficulties , which were apprehended , and at the solicitation of many leading citizens of Hot Springs and others interested in the welfare of the town , the Secretary of the Interior was authorized to request the late commissioners to take charge of the records of their proceedings and to perform such work as could properly be done by them under such circumstances to facilitate the future adjudication of the claims at an early day and to preserve the status of the claimants until their rights should be finally determined . The late commissioners complied with that request , and report that the testimony in all the cases has been written out , examined , briefed , and so arranged as to facilitate an early settlement when authorized by law . It is recommended that the requisite authority be given at as early a day in the session as possible , and that a fair compensation be allowed the late commissioners for the expense incurred and the labor performed by them since the 25th of June last . I invite the attention of Congress to the recommendations made by the Secretary of the Interior with regard to the preservation of the timber on the public lands of the United States . The protection of the public property is one of the first duties of the Government . The Department of the Interior should therefore be enabled by sufficient appropriations to enforce the laws in that respect . But this matter appears still more important as a question of public economy . The rapid destruction of our forests is an evil fraught with the gravest consequences , especially in the mountainous districts , where the rocky slopes , once denuded of their trees , will remain so forever . There the injury , once done , can not be repaired . I fully concur with the Secretary of the Interior in the opinion that for this reason legislation touching the public timber in the mountainous States and Territories of the West should be especially well considered , and that existing laws in which the destruction of the forests is not sufficiently guarded against should be speedily modified . A general law concerning this important subject appears to me to be a matter of urgent public necessity . From the organization of the Government the importance of encouraging by all possible means the increase of our agricultural productions has been acknowledged and urged upon the attention of Congress and the people as the surest and readiest means of increasing our substantial and enduring prosperity . The words of Washington are as applicable to day as when , in his eighth annual message , he said It will not be doubted that , with reference either to individual or national welfare , agriculture is of primary importance . In proportion as nations advance in population and other circumstances of maturity this truth becomes more apparent , and renders the cultivation of the soil more and more an object of public patronage . Institutions for promoting it grow up , supported by the public purse and to what object can it be dedicated with greater propriety Among the means which have been employed to this end none have been attended with greater success than the establishment of boards composed of proper characters charged with collecting and diffusing information , and enabled by premiums and small pecuniary aids to encourage and assist a spirit of discovery and improvement . This species of establishment contributes doubly to the increase of improvement , by stimulating to enterprise and experiment , and by drawing to a common center the results everywhere of individual skill and observation and spreading them thence over the whole nation . Experience accordingly hath shewn that they are very cheap instruments of immense national benefits . The preponderance of the agricultural over any other interest in the United States entitles it to all the consideration claimed for it by Washington . About one half of the population of the United States is engaged in agriculture . The value of the agricultural products of the United States for the year 1878 is estimated at 3 , 000 , 000 , 000 . The exports of agricultural products for the year 1877 , as appears from the report of the Bureau of Statistics , were 524 , 000 , 000 . The great extent of our country , with its diversity of soil and climate , enables us to produce within our own borders and by our own labor not only the necessaries , but most of the luxuries , that are consumed in civilized countries . Yet , notwithstanding our advantages of soil , climate , and inter communication , it appears from the statistical statements in the report of the Commissioner of Agriculture that we import annually from foreign lands many millions of dollars worth of agricultural products which could be raised in our own country . Numerous questions arise in the practice of advanced agriculture which can only be answered by experiments , often costly and sometimes fruitless , which are beyond the means of private individuals and are a just and proper charge on the whole nation for the benefit of the nation . It is good policy , especially in times of depression and uncertainty in other business pursuits , with a vast area of uncultivated , and hence unproductive , territory , wisely opened to homestead settlement , to encourage by every proper and legitimate means the occupation and tillage of the soil . The efforts of the Department of Agriculture to stimulate old and introduce new agricultural industries , to improve the quality and increase the quantity of our products , to determine the value of old or establish the importance of new methods of culture , are worthy of your careful and favorable consideration , and assistance by such appropriations of money and enlargement of facilities as may seem to be demanded by the present favorable conditions for the growth and rapid development of this important interest . The abuse of animals in transit is widely attracting public attention . A national convention of societies specially interested in the subject has recently met at Baltimore , and the facts developed , both in regard to cruelties to animals and the effect of such cruelties upon the public health , would seem to demand the careful consideration of Congress and the enactment of more efficient laws for the prevention of these abuses . The report of the Commissioner of the Bureau of Education shows very gratifying progress throughout the country in all the interests committed to the care of this important office . The report is especially encouraging with respect to the extension of the advantages of the common school system in sections of the country where the general enjoyment of the privilege of free schools is not yet attained . To education more than to any other agency we are to look as the resource for the advancement of the people in the requisite knowledge and appreciation of their rights and responsibilities as citizens , and I desire to repeat the suggestion contained in my former message in behalf of the enactment of appropriate measures by Congress for the purpose of supplementing with national aid the local systems of education in the several States . Adequate accommodations for the great library , which is overgrowing the capacity of the rooms now occupied at the Capitol , should be provided without further delay . This invaluable collection of books , manuscripts , and illustrative art has grown to such proportions , in connection with the copyright system of the country , as to demand the prompt and careful attention of Congress to save it from injury in its present crowded and insufficient quarters . As this library is national in its character , and must from the nature of the case increase even more rapidly in the future than in the past , it can not be doubted that the people will sanction any wise expenditure to preserve it and to enlarge its usefulness . The appeal of the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution for the means to organize , exhibit , and make available for the public benefit the articles now stored away belonging to the National Museum I heartily recommend to your favorable consideration . The attention of Congress is again invited to the condition of the river front of the city of Washington . It is a matter of vital importance to the health of the residents of the national capital , both temporary and permanent , that the lowlands in front of the city , now subject to tidal overflow , should be reclaimed . In their present condition these flats obstruct the drainage of the city and are a dangerous source of malarial poison . The reclamation will improve the navigation of the river by restricting , and consequently deepening , its channel , and is also of importance when considered in connection with the extension of the public ground and the enlargement of the park west and south of the Washington Monument . The report of the board of survey , heretofore ordered by act of Congress , on the improvement of the harbor of Washington and Georgetown , is respectfully commended to consideration . The report of the Commissioners of the District of Columbia presents a detailed statement of the affairs of the District . The relative expenditures by the United States and the District for local purposes is contrasted , showing that the expenditures by the people of the District greatly exceed those of the General Government . The exhibit is made in connection with estimates for the requisite repair of the defective pavements and sewers of the city , which is a work of immediate necessity and in the same connection a plan is presented for the permanent funding of the outstanding securities of the District . The benevolent , reformatory , and penal institutions of the District are all entitled to the favorable attention of Congress . The Reform School needs additional buildings and teachers . Appropriations which will place all of these institutions in a condition to become models of usefulness and beneficence will be regarded by the country as liberality wisely bestowed . The Commissioners , with evident justice , request attention to the discrimination made by Congress against the District in the donation of land for the support of the public schools , and ask that the same liberality that has been shown to the inhabitants of the various States and Territories of the United States may be extended to the District of Columbia . The Commissioners also invite attention to the damage inflicted upon public and private interests by the present location of the depots and switching tracks of the several railroads entering the city , and ask for legislation looking to their removal . The recommendations and suggestions contained in the report will , I trust , receive the careful consideration of Congress . Sufficient time has , perhaps , not elapsed since the reorganization of the government of the District under the recent legislation of Congress for the expression of a confident opinion as to its successful operation , but the practical results already attained are so satisfactory that the friends of the new government may well urge upon Congress the wisdom of its continuance , without essential modification , until by actual experience its advantages and defects may be more fully ascertained .<speech_sep>To the House of Representatives I have maturely considered the important questions presented by the bill entitled An act making appropriations for the support of the Army for the fiscal year ending June 30 , 1880 , and for other purposes , and I now return it to the House of Representatives , in which it originated , with my objections to its approval . The bill provides in the usual form for the appropriations required for the support of the Army during the next fiscal year . If it contained no other provisions , it would receive my prompt approval . It includes , however , further legislation , which , attached , as it is , to appropriations which are requisite for the efficient performance of some of the most necessary duties of the Government , involves questions of the gravest character . The sixth section of the bill is amendatory of the statute now in force in regard to the authority of persons in the civil , military , and naval service of the United States at the place where any general or special election is held in any State . This statute was adopted February 25 , 1865 , after a protracted debate in the Senate , and almost without opposition in the House of Representatives , by the concurrent votes of both of the leading political parties of the country , and became a law by the approval of President Lincoln . It was reenacted in 1874 in the Revised Statutes of the United States , sections 2002 and 5528 , which are as follows SE2002 . No military or naval officer , or other person engaged in the civil , military , or naval service of the United States , shall order , bring , keep , or have under his authority or control any troops or armed men at the place where any general or special election is held in any State , unless it be necessary to repel the armed enemies of the United States or to keep the peace at the polls . SE5528 . Every officer of the Army or Navy , or other person in the civil , military , or naval service of the United States , who orders , brings , keeps , or has under his authority or control any troops or armed men at any place where a general or special election is held in any State , unless such force be necessary to repel armed enemies of the United States or to keep the peace at the polls , shall be fined not more than 5 , 000 and suffer imprisonment at hard labor not less than three months nor more than five years . The amendment proposed to this statute in the bill before me omits from both of the foregoing sections the words or to keep the peace at the polls . The effect of the adoption of this amendment may be considered First . Upon the right of the United States Government to use military force to keep the peace at the elections for Members of Congress and Second . Upon the right of the Government , by civil authority , to protect these elections from violence and fraud . In addition to the sections of the statute above quoted , the following provisions of law relating to the use of the military power at the elections are now in force SE2003 . No officer of the Army or Navy of the United States shall prescribe or fix , or attempt to prescribe or fix , by proclamation , order , or otherwise , the qualifications of voters in any State , or in any manner interfere with the freedom of any election in any State , or with the exercise of the free right of suffrage in any State . SE5529 . Every officer or other person in the military or naval service who , by force , threat , intimidation , order , advice , or otherwise , prevents , or attempts to prevent , any qualified voter of any State from freely exercising the right of suffrage at any general or special election in such State shall be fined not more than 5 , 000 and imprisoned at hard labor not more than five years . SE5530 . Every officer of the Army or Navy who prescribes or fixes , or attempts to prescribe or fix , whether by proclamation , order , or otherwise , the qualifications of voters at any election in any State shall be punished as provided in the preceding section . SE5531 . Every officer or other person in the military or naval service who , by force , threat , intimidation , order , or otherwise , compels , or attempts to compel , any officer holding an election in any State to receive a vote from a person not legally qualified to vote , or who imposes , or attempts to impose , any regulations for conducting any general or special election in a State different from those prescribed by law , or who interferes in any manner with any officer of an election in the discharge of his duty , shall be punished as provided in section 5529 . SE5532 . Every person convicted of any of the offenses specified in the five preceding sections shall , in addition to the punishments therein severally prescribed , be disqualified from holding any office of honor , profit , or trust under the United States but nothing in those sections shall be construed to prevent any officer , soldier , sailor , or marine from exercising the right of suffrage in any election district to which he may belong , if otherwise qualified according to the laws of the State in which he offers to vote . The foregoing enactments would seem to be sufficient to prevent military interference with the elections . But the last Congress , to remove all apprehension of such interference , added to this body of law section 15 of an act entitled An act making appropriations for the support of the Army for the fiscal year ending June 30 , 1879 , and for other purposes , approved June 18 , 1878 , which is as follows SE15 . From and after the passage of this act it shall not be lawful to employ any part of the Army of the United States , as a posse comitatus or otherwise , for the purpose of executing the laws , except in such cases and under such circumstances as such employment of said force may be expressly authorized by the Constitution or by act of Congress and no money appropriated by this act shall be used to pay any of the expenses incurred in the employment of any troops in violation of this section and any person willfully violating the provisions of this section shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor , and on conviction thereof shall be punished by fine not exceeding 10 , 000 or imprisonment not exceeding two years , or by both such fine and imprisonment . This act passed the Senate , after full consideration , without a single vote recorded against it on its final passage , and , by a majority of more than two thirds , it was concurred in by the House of Representatives . The purpose of the section quoted was stated in the Senate by one of its supporters as follows Therefore I hope , without getting into any controversy about the past , but acting wisely for the future , that we shall take away the idea that the Army can be used by a general or special deputy marshal , or any marshal , merely for election purposes , as a posse , ordering them about the polls or ordering them anywhere else , when there is an election going on , to prevent disorders or to suppress disturbances that should be suppressed by the peace officers of the State or , if they must bring others to their aid they , should summon the unorganized citizens , and not summon the officers and men of the Army as a posse comitatus to quell disorders , and thus get up a feeling which will be disastrous to peace among the people of the country . In the House of Representatives the object of the act of 1878 was stated by the gentleman who had it in charge in similar terms . He said But these are all minor points and insignificant questions compared with the great principle which was incorporated by the House in the bill in reference to the use of the Army in time of peace . The Senate had already conceded what they called and what we might accept as the principle , but they had stricken out the penalty , and had stricken out the word expressly , so that the Army might be used in all cases where implied authority might be inferred . The House committee planted themselves firmly upon the doctrine that rather than yield this fundamental principle , for which for three years this House had struggled , they would allow the bill to fail , notwithstanding the reforms which we had secured , regarding these reforms as of but little consequence alongside the great principle that the Army of the United States , in time of peace , should be under the control of Congress and obedient to its laws . After a long and protracted negotiation , the Senate committee have conceded that principle in all its length and breadth , including the penalty , which the Senate had stricken out . We bring you back , therefore , a report , with the alteration of a single word , which the lawyers assure me is proper to be made , restoring to this bill the principle for which we have contended so long , and which is so vital to secure the rights and liberties of the people . Thus have we this day secured to the people of this country the same great protection against a standing army which cost a struggle of two hundred years for the Commons of England to secure for the British people . From this brief review of the subject it sufficiently appears that under existing laws there can be no military interference with the elections . No case of such interference has , in fact , occurred since the passage of the act last referred to . No soldier of the United States has appeared under orders at any place of election in any State . No complaint even of the presence of United States troops has been made in any quarter . It may therefore be confidently stated that there is no necessity for the enactment of section 6 of the bill before me to prevent military interference with the elections . The laws already in force are all that is required for that end . But that part of section 6 of this bill which is significant and vitally important is the clause which , if adopted , will deprive the civil authorities of the United States of all power to keep the peace at the Congressional elections . The Congressional elections in every district , in a very important sense , are justly a matter of political interest and concern throughout the whole country . Each State , every political party , is entitled to the share of power which is conferred by the legal and constitutional suffrage . It is the right of every citizen possessing the qualifications prescribed by law to cast one unintimidated ballot and to have his ballot honestly counted . So long as the exercise of this power and the enjoyment of this right are common and equal , practically as well as formally , submission to the results of the suffrage will be accorded loyally and cheerfully , and all the departments of Government will feel the true vigor of the popular will thus expressed . Two provisions of the Constitution authorize legislation by Congress for the regulation of the Congressional elections . Section 4 of Article I of the Constitution declares The times , places , and manner of holding elections for Senators and Representatives shall be prescribed in each State by the legislature thereof but the Congress may at any time , by law , make or alter such regulations , except as to the places of choosing Senators . The fifteenth amendment of the Constitution is as follows SE1 . The right of citizens of the United States to vote shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or by any State on account of race , color , or previous condition of servitude . SE2 . The Congress shall have power to enforce this article by appropriate legislation . The Supreme Court has held that this amendment invests the citizens of the United States with a new constitutional right which is within the protecting power of Congress . That right the court declares to be exemption from discrimination in the exercise of the elective franchise on account of race , color , or previous condition of servitude . The power of Congress to protect this right by appropriate legislation is expressly affirmed by the court . National legislation to provide safeguards for free and honest elections is necessary , as experience has shown , not only to secure the right to vote to the enfranchised race at the South , but also to prevent fraudulent voting in the large cities of the North . Congress has therefore exercised the power conferred by the Constitution , and has enacted certain laws to prevent discriminations on account of race , color , or previous condition of servitude , and to punish fraud , violence , and intimidation at Federal elections . Attention is called to the following sections of the Revised Statutes of the United States , viz Section 2004 , which guarantees to all citizens the right to vote , without distinction on account of race , color , or previous condition of servitude . Sections 2005 and 2006 , which guarantee to all citizens equal opportunity , without discrimination , to perform all the acts required by law as a prerequisite or qualification for voting . Section 2022 , which authorizes the United States marshal and his deputies to keep the peace and preserve order at the Federal elections . Section 2024 , which expressly authorizes the United States marshal and his deputies to summon a posse comitatus whenever they or any of them are forcibly resisted in the execution of their duties under the law or are prevented from executing such duties by violence . Section 5522 , which provides for the punishment of the crime of interfering with the supervisors of elections and deputy marshals in the discharge of their duties at the elections of Representatives in Congress . These are some of the laws on this subject which it is the duty of the executive department of the Government to enforce . The intent and effect of the sixth section of this bill is to prohibit all the civil officers of the United States , under penalty of fine and imprisonment , from employing any adequate civil force for this purpose at the place where their enforcement is most necessary , namely , at the places where the Congressional elections are held . Among the most valuable enactments to which I have referred are those which protect the supervisors of Federal elections in the discharge of their duties at the polls . If the proposed legislation should become the law , there will be no power vested in any officer of the Government to protect from violence the officers of the United States engaged in the discharge of their duties . Their rights and duties under the law will remain , but the National Government will be powerless to enforce its own statutes . The States may employ both military and civil power to keep the peace and to enforce the laws at State elections . It is now proposed to deny to the United States even the necessary civil authority to protect the national elections . No sufficient reason has been given for this discrimination in favor of the State and against the national authority . If well founded objections exist against the present national election laws , all good citizens should unite in their amendment . The laws providing the safeguards of the elections should be impartial , just , and efficient . They should , if possible , be so nonpartisan and fair in their operation that the minority the party out of power will have no just grounds to complain . The present laws have in practice unquestionably conduced to the prevention of fraud and violence at the elections . In several of the States members of different political parties have applied for the safeguards which they furnish . It is the right and duty of the National Government to enact and enforce laws which will secure free and fair Congressional elections . The laws now in force should not be repealed except in connection with the enactment of measures which will better accomplish that important end . Believing that section 6 of the bill before me will weaken , if it does not altogether take away , the power of the National Government to protect the Federal elections by the civil authorities , I am forced to the conclusion that it ought not to receive my approval . This section is , however , not presented to me as a separate and independent measure , but is , as has been stated , attached to the bill making the usual annual appropriations for the support of the Army . It makes a vital change in the election laws of the country , which is in no way connected with the use of the Army . It prohibits , under heavy penalties , any person engaged in the civil service of the United States from having any force at the place of any election , prepared to preserve order , to make arrests , to keep the peace , or in any manner to enforce the laws . This is altogether foreign to the purpose of an Army appropriation bill . The practice of tacking to appropriation bills measures not pertinent to such bills did not prevail until more than forty years after the adoption of the Constitution . It has become a common practice . All parties when in power have adopted it . Many abuses and great waste of public money have in this way crept into appropriation bills . The public opinion of the country is against it . The States which have recently adopted constitutions have generally provided a remedy for the evil by enacting that no law shall contain more than one subject , which shall be plainly expressed in its title . The constitutions of more than half of the States contain substantially this provision . The public welfare will be promoted in many ways by a return to the early practice of the Government and to the true principle of legislation , which requires that every measure shall stand or fall according to its own merits . If it were understood that to attach to an appropriation bill a measure irrelevant to the general object of the bill would imperil and probably prevent its final passage and approval , a valuable reform in the parliamentary practice of Congress would be accomplished . The best justification that has been offered for attaching irrelevant riders to appropriation bills is that it is done for convenience sake , to facilitate the passage of measures which are deemed expedient by all the branches of Government which participate in legislation . It can not be claimed that there is any such reason for attaching this amendment of the election laws to the Army appropriation bill . The history of the measure contradicts this assumption . A majority of the House of Representatives in the last Congress was in favor of section 6 of this bill . It was known that a majority of the Senate was opposed to it , and that as a separate measure it could not be adopted . It was attached to the Army appropriation bill to compel the Senate to assent to it . It was plainly announced to the Senate that the Army appropriation bill would not be allowed to pass unless the proposed amendments of the election laws were adopted with it . The Senate refused to assent to the bill on account of this irrelevant section . Congress thereupon adjourned without passing an appropriation bill for the Army , and the present extra session of the Forty sixth Congress became necessary to furnish the means to carry on the Government . The ground upon which the action of the House of Representatives is defended has been distinctly stated by many of its advocates . A week before the close of the last session of Congress the doctrine in question was stated by one of its ablest defenders as follows It is our duty to repeal these laws . It is not worth while to attempt the repeal except upon an appropriation bill . The Republican Senate would not agree to nor the Republican President sign a bill for such repeal . Whatever objection to legislation upon appropriation bills may be made in ordinary cases does not apply where free elections and the liberty of the citizens are concerned . We have the power to vote money let us annex conditions to it , and insist upon the redress of grievances . By another distinguished member of the House it was said The right of the Representatives of the people to withhold supplies is as old as English liberty . History records numerous instances where the Commons , feeling that the people were oppressed by laws that the Lords would not consent to repeal by the ordinary methods of legislation , obtained redress at last by refusing appropriations unless accompanied by relief measures . That a question of the gravest magnitude , and new in this country , was raised by this course of proceeding , was fully recognized also by its defenders in the Senate . It was said by a distinguished Senator Perhaps no greater question , in the form we are brought to consider it , was ever considered by the American Congress in time of peace for it involves not merely the merits or demerits of the laws which the House bill proposes to repeal , but involves the rights , the privileges , the powers , the duties of the two branches of Congress and of the President of the United States . It is a vast question it is a question whose importance can scarcely be estimated it is a question that never yet has been brought so sharply before the American Congress and the American people as it may be now . It is a question which sooner or later must be decided , and the decision must determine what are the powers of the House of Representatives under the Constitution , and what is the duty of that House in the view of the framers of that Constitution , according to its letter and its spirit . President , I should approach this question , if I were in the best possible condition to speak and to argue it , with very grave diffidence , and certainly with the utmost anxiety for no one can think of it as long and as carefully as I have thought of it without seeing that we are at the beginning , perhaps , of a struggle that may last as long in this country as a similar struggle lasted in what we are accustomed to call the mother land . There the struggle lasted for two centuries before it was ultimately decided . It is not likely to last so long here , but it may last until every man in this chamber is in his grave . It is the question whether or not the House of Representatives has a right to say , We will grant supplies only upon condition that grievances are redressed . We are the representatives of the taxpayers of the Republic . We , the House of Representatives , alone have the right to originate money bills . We , the House of Representatives , have alone the right to originate bills which grant the money of the people . The Senate represents States we represent the taxpayers of the Republic . We , therefore , by the very terms of the Constitution , are charged with the duty of originating the bills which grant the money of the people . We claim the right , which the House of Commons in England established after two centuries of contest , to say that we will not grant the money of the people unless there is a redress of grievances . Upon the assembling of this Congress , in pursuance of a call for an extra session , which was made necessary by the failure of the Forty fifth Congress to make the needful appropriations for the support of the Government , the question was presented whether the attempt made in the last Congress to ingraft by construction a new principle upon the Constitution should be persisted in or not . This Congress has ample opportunity and time to pass the appropriation bills , and also to enact any political measures which may be determined upon in separate bills by the usual and orderly methods of proceeding . But the majority of both Houses have deemed it wise to adhere to the principles asserted and maintained in the last Congress by the majority of the House of Representatives . That principle is that the House of Representatives has the sole right to originate bills for raising revenue , and therefore has the right to withhold appropriations upon which the existence of the Government may depend unless the Senate and the President shall give their assent to any legislation which the House may see fit to attach to appropriation bills . To establish this principle is to make a radical , dangerous , and unconstitutional change in the character of our institutions . The various departments of the Government and the Army and the Navy are established by the Constitution or by laws passed in pursuance thereof . Their duties are clearly defined and their support is carefully provided for by law . The money required for this purpose has been collected from the people and is now in the Treasury , ready to be paid out as soon as the appropriation bills are passed . Whether appropriations are made or not , the collection of the taxes will go on . The public money will accumulate in the Treasury . It was not the intention of the framers of the Constitution that any single branch of the Government should have the power to dictate conditions upon which this treasure should be applied to the purpose for which it was collected . Any such intention , if it had been entertained , would have been plainly expressed in the Constitution . That a majority of the Senate now concurs in the claim of the House adds to the gravity of the situation , but does not alter the question at issue . The new doctrine , if maintained , will result in a consolidation of unchecked and despotic power in the House of Representatives . A bare majority of the House will become the Government . The Executive will no longer be what the framers of the Constitution intended an equal and independent branch of the Government . It is clearly the constitutional duty of the President to exercise his discretion and judgment upon all bills presented to him without constraint or duress from any other branch of the Government . To say that a majority of either or both of the Houses of Congress may insist upon the approval of a bill under the penalty of stopping all of the operations of the Government for want of the necessary supplies is to deny to the Executive that share of the legislative power which is plainly conferred by the second section of the seventh article of the Constitution . It strikes from the Constitution the qualified negative of the President . It is said that this should be done because it is the peculiar function of the House of Representatives to represent the will of the people . But no single branch or department of the Government has exclusive authority to speak for the American people . The most authentic and solemn expression of their will is contained in the Constitution of the United States . By that Constitution they have ordained and established a Government whose powers are distributed among coordinate branches , which , as far as possible consistently with a harmonious cooperation , are absolutely independent of each other . The people of this country are unwilling to see the supremacy of the Constitution replaced by the omnipotence of any one department of the Government . The enactment of this bill into a law will establish a precedent which will tend to destroy the equal independence of the several branches of the Government . Its principle places not merely the Senate and the Executive , but the judiciary also , under the coercive dictation of the House . The House alone will be the judge of what constitutes a grievance , and also of the means and measure of redress . An act of Congress to protect elections is now the grievance complained of but the House may on the same principle determine that any other act of Congress , a treaty made by the President with the advice and consent of the Senate , a nomination or appointment to office , or that a decision or opinion of the Supreme Court is a grievance , and that the measure of redress is to withhold the appropriations required for the support of the offending branch of the Government . Believing that this bill is a dangerous violation of the spirit and meaning of the Constitution , I am compelled to return it to the House in which it originated without my approval . The qualified negative with which the Constitution invests the President is a trust that involves a duty which he can not decline to perform . With a firm and conscientious purpose to do what I can to preserve unimpaired the constitutional powers and equal independence , not merely of the Executive , but of every branch of the Government , which will be imperiled by the adoption of the principle of this bill , I desire earnestly to urge upon the House of Representatives a return to the wise and wholesome usage of the earlier days of the Republic , which excluded from appropriation bills all irrelevant legislation . By this course you will inaugurate an important reform in the method of Congressional legislation your action will be in harmony with the fundamental principles of the Constitution and the patriotic sentiment of nationality which is their firm support , and you will restore to the country that feeling of confidence and security and the repose which are so essential to the prosperity of all of our fellow citizens .<speech_sep>To the Senate of the United States After mature consideration of the bill entitled An act regulating the pay and appointment of deputy marshals , I am constrained to withhold from it my approval , and to return it to the Senate , in which it originated , with my objections to its passage . The laws now in force on the subject of the bill before me are contained in the following sections of the Revised Statutes Sec . 2021 . Whenever an election at which Representatives or Delegates in Congress are to be chosen is held in any city or town of 20 , 000 inhabitants or upward , the marshal for the district in which the city or town is situated shall , on the application in writing of at least two citizens residing in such city or town , appoint special deputy marshals , whose duty it shall be , when required thereto , to aid and assist the supervisors of election in the verification of any list of persons who may have registered or voted to attend in each election district or voting precinct at the times and places fixed for the registration of voters , and at all times or places when and where the registration may by law be scrutinized and the names of registered voters be marked for challenge and also to attend , at all times for holding elections , the polls in such district or precinct . SE2022 . The marshal and his general deputies , and such special deputies , shall keep the peace and support and protect the supervisors of election in the discharge of their duties , preserve order at such places of registration and at such polls , prevent fraudulent registration and fraudulent voting thereat , or fraudulent conduct on the part of any officer of election , and immediately , either at the place of registration or polling place , or elsewhere , and either before or after registering or voting , to arrest and take into custody , with or without process , any person who Commits , or attempts or offers to commit , any of the acts or offenses prohibited herein , or who commits any offense against the laws of the United States but no person shall be arrested without process for any offense not committed in the presence of the marshal or his general or special deputies , or either of them , or of the supervisors of election , or either of them and for the purposes of arrest or the preservation of the peace the supervisors of election shall , in the absence of the marshal s deputies , or if required to assist such deputies , have the same duties and powers as deputy marshals nor shall any person , on the day of such election , be arrested without process for any offense committed on the day of registration . SE2023 . Whenever any arrest is made under any provision of this title , the person so arrested shall forthwith be brought before a commissioner , judge , or court of the United States for examination of the offenses alleged against him and such commissioner , judge , or court shall proceed in respect thereto as authorized by law in case of crimes against the United States . SE2024 . The marshal or his general deputies , or such special deputies as are thereto specially empowered by him in writing , and under his hand and seal , whenever he or either or any of them is forcibly resisted in executing their duties under this title , or shall by violence , threats , or menaces be prevented from executing such duties or from arresting any person who has committed any offense for which the marshal or his general or his special deputies are authorized to make such arrest , are , and each of them is , empowered to summon and call to his aid the bystanders or posse comitatus of his district . SE2028 . No person shall be appointed a supervisor of election or a deputy marshal under the preceding provisions who is not at the time of his appointment a qualified voter of the city , town , county , parish , election district , or voting precinct in which his duties are to be performed . SE5521 . If any person be appointed a supervisor of election or a special deputy marshal under the provisions of title The elective franchise , and has taken the oath of office as such supervisor of election or such special deputy marshal , and thereafter neglects or refuses , without good and lawful excuse , to perform and discharge fully the duties , obligations , and requirements of such office until the expiration of the term for which he was appointed , he shall not only be subject to removal from office with loss of all pay or emoluments , but shall be punished by imprisonment for not less than six months nor more than one year , or by a fine of not less than 200 and not more than 500 , or by both fine and imprisonment , and shall pay the costs of prosecution . Sec . 5522 . Every person , whether with or without any authority , power , or process , or pretended authority , power , or process , of any State , Territory , or municipality , who obstructs , hinders , assaults , or by bribery , solicitation , or otherwise interferes with or prevents the supervisors of election , or either of them , or the marshal of his general or special deputies , or either of them , in the performance of any duty required of them , or either of them , or which he or they , or either of them , may be authorized to perform by any law of the United States , in the execution of process or otherwise , or who by any of the means before mentioned hinders or prevents the free attendance and presence at such places of registration , or at such polls of election , or full and free access and egress to and from any such place of registration or poll of election , or in going to and from any such place of registration or poll of election , or to and from any room where any such registration or election or canvass of votes , or of making any returns or certificates thereof , may be had , or who molests , interferes with , removes , or ejects from any such place of registration or poll of election , or of canvassing votes cast thereat , or of making returns or certificates thereof , any supervisor of election , the marshal or his general or special deputies , or either of them , or who threatens , or attempts or offers so to do , or refuses or neglects to aid and assist any supervisor of election , or the marshal or his general or special deputies , or either of them , in the performance of his or their duties , when required by him or them , or either of them , to give such aid and assistance , shall be liable to instant arrest without process , and shall be punished by imprisonment not more than two years , or by a fine of not more than 3 , 000 , or by both such fine and imprisonment , and shall pay the cost of the prosecution . The Supreme Court of the United States , in the recent case of Ex parte Siebold and others , decided at the October term , 1879 , on the question raised in the case as to the constitutionality of the sections of the Revised Statutes above quoted , uses the following language These portions of the Revised Statutes are taken from the act commonly known as the enforcement act , approved May 31 , 1870 , and entitled An act to enforce the right of citizens of the United States to vote in the several States of this Union , and for other purposes , and from the supplement to that act , approved February 28 , 1871 . They relate to elections of members of the House of Representatives , and were an assertion on the part of Congress of a power to pass laws for regulating and superintending said elections and for securing the purity thereof and the rights of citizens to vote thereat peaceably and without molestation . It must be conceded to be a most important power , and of a fundamental character . In the light of recent history and of the violence , fraud , corruption , and irregularity which have frequently prevailed at such elections , it may easily be conceived that the exertion of the power , if it exists , may be necessary to the stability of our form of government . The greatest difficulty in coming to a just conclusion arises from mistaken notions with regard to the relations which subsist between the State and National Governments . It seems to be often overlooked that a national constitution has been adopted in this country , establishing a real government therein , operating upon persons and territory and things , and which , moreover , is , or should be , as dear to every American citizen as his State government is . Whenever the true conception of the nature of this Government is once conceded , no real difficulty will arise in the just interpretation of its powers but if we allow ourselves to regard it as a hostile organization , opposed to the proper sovereignty and dignity of the State governments , we shall continue to be vexed with difficulties as to its jurisdiction and authority . No greater jealousy is required to be exercised toward this Government in reference to the preservation of our liberties than is proper to be exercised toward the State governments . Its powers are limited in number and clearly defined , and its action within the scope of those powers is restrained by a sufficiently rigid bill of rights for the protection of its citizens from oppression . The true interests of the people of this country require that both the National and State Governments should be allowed , without jealous interference on either side , to exercise all the powers which respectively belong to them according to a fair and practical construction of the Constitution . State rights and the rights of the United States should be equally respected . Both are essential to the preservation of our liberties and the perpetuity of our institutions . But in endeavoring to vindicate the one we should not allow our zeal to nullify or impair the other . The true doctrine , as we conceive , is this , that while the States are really sovereign as to all matters which have not been granted to the jurisdiction and control of the United States , the Constitution and constitutional laws of the latter are , as we have already said , the supreme law of the land , and when they conflict with the laws of the States they are of paramount authority and obligation . This is the fundamental principle on which the authority of the Constitution is based , and unless it be conceded in practice as well as theory the fabric of our institutions , as it was contemplated by its founders , can not stand . The questions involved have respect not more to the autonomy and existence of the States than to the continued existence of the United States as a government to which every American citizen may look for security and protection in every part of the land . Why do we have marshals at all if they can not physically lay their hands on persons and things in the performance of their proper duties What functions can they perform if they can not use force In executing the process of the courts must they call on the nearest constable for protection Must they rely on him to use the requisite compulsion and to keep the peace while they are soliciting and entreating the parties and bystanders to allow the law to take its course This is the necessary consequence of the positions that are assumed . If we indulge in such impracticable views as these , and keep on refining and re refining , we shall drive the National Government out of the United States and relegate it to the District of Columbia , or perhaps to some foreign soil . We shall bring it back to a condition of greater helplessness than that of the old Confederation . The argument is based on a strained and impracticable view of the nature and powers of the National Government . It must execute its powers or it is no government . It must execute them on the land as well as on the sea , on things as well as on persons . And to do this it must necessarily have power to command obedience , preserve order , and keep the peace and no person or power in this land has the right to resist or question its authority so long as it keeps within the bounds of its jurisdiction . I have deemed it fitting and proper to quote thus largely from an important and elaborate opinion of the Supreme Court because the bill before me proceeds upon a construction of the Constitution as to the powers of the National Government which is in direct conflict with the judgment of the highest judicial tribunal of our country . Under the sections of the present law above quoted officers of the United States are authorized , and it is their duty in the case of Congressional elections , to keep the peace at the polls and at the places of registration to arrest immediately any person who is guilty of crimes against the United States election laws to protect all officers of elections in the performance of their duties and whenever an arrest is made to bring the person so arrested before a commissioner , judge , or court of the United States for examination of the offenses alleged against him . Such special deputy marshals as are specially empowered thereto by the marshal in writing , if forcibly resisted , may call to their aid the bystanders or posse comitatus . It is made a crime punishable with fine or imprisonment to hinder , assault , or otherwise interfere with the marshal or his special deputies , or to threaten or to attempt so to do . If any person appointed such special deputy marshal has taken the oath of office and thereafter neglects or refuses to fully discharge the duties of such office , he is punishable not only by removal from office , but by fine and imprisonment . The functions of the special deputy marshals now provided for by law being executive , they are placed under the authority of the well known chief executive officer of the courts of the United States . They are in fact , and not merely in name , the deputies of the marshal , and he and his bondsmen are responsible for them . A civil force for the execution of the law is thus instituted in accordance with long established and familiar usage , which is simple , effective , and under a responsible head . The necessity for the possession of these powers by appropriate officers will not be called in question by intelligent citizens who appreciate the importance of peaceable , orderly , and lawful elections . Similar powers are conferred and exercised under State laws with respect to State elections . The executive officers of the United States under the existing laws have no other or greater power to supervise and control the conduct of the Congressional elections than the State executive officers exercise in regard to State elections . The bill before me changes completely the present law by substituting for the special deputy marshals of the existing statutes new officers hitherto unknown to the law , and who lack the power , responsibility , and protection which are essential to enable them to act efficiently as executive officers . The bill under consideration is as follows Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States America in Congress assembled , That from and after the passage of this act the pay of all deputy marshals for services in reference to any election shall be 5 for each day of actual service , and no more . Sec . 2 . That all deputy marshals to serve in reference to any election shall be appointed by the circuit court of the United States for the district in which such marshals are to perform their duties in each year and the judges of the several circuit courts of the United States are hereby authorized to open their respective courts at any time for that purpose and in case the circuit courts shall not be open for that purpose at least ten days prior to a registration , if there be one , or , if no registration be required , then at east ten days before such election , the judges of the district courts of the United States are hereby respectively authorized to cause their courts to be opened for the purpose of appointing such deputy marshals , who shall be appointed by the said district courts and the officers so appointed shall be in equal numbers from the different political parties , and shall be well known citizens , of good moral character , and actual residents of the voting precincts in which their duties are to be performed , and shall not be candidates for any office at such election and all laws and parts of laws inconsistent with this act are hereby repealed Provided , That the marshals of the United States for whom deputies shall be appointed by the court under this act shall not be liable for any of the acts of such deputies . It will be observed that the deputy marshals proposed by the bill before me are distinctly different officers from the special deputies of the marshal , as such officers are now provided for in the statutes . This bill does not connect the new officers with the existing laws relating to special deputy marshals so as to invest the proposed deputy marshals with the same powers , to impose upon them the same duties , and to give them the same protection by means of the criminal laws . When new officers are created , distinct in character and appointed by different authority , although similar in name to officers already provided for , such officers are not held by similar responsibilities to the criminal law , do not possess the same powers , and are not similarly protected unless it is expressly so provided by legislation . The so called deputy marshals provided for in this bill will have no executive head . The marshal can neither appoint nor remove them . He can not control them , and he is not responsible for them . They will have no authority to call to their aid , if resisted , the posse comitatus . They are protected by no criminal statutes in the performance of their duties . An assault upon one of these deputies with the intent to prevent a lawful election will be no more than an ordinary assault upon any other citizen . They can not keep the peace . They can not make arrests when crimes are committed in their presence . Whatever powers they have are confined to the precincts in which they reside . Outside of the precincts for which they are appointed the deputy marshals of this bill can not keep the peace , make arrests , hold prisoners , take prisoners before a proper tribunal for hearing , nor perform any other duty . No oaths of office are required of them , and they give no bond . They have no superior who is responsible for them , and they are not punishable for neglect of duty or misconduct in office . In all these respects this bill makes a radical change between the powers of the United States officers at national elections and the powers uniformly possessed and exercised by State officers at State elections . This discrimination against the authority of the United States is a departure from the usage of the Government established by precedents beginning with the earliest statutes on the subject , and violates the true principles of the Constitution . The Supreme Court , in the decision already referred to , says It is argued that the preservation of peace and good order in society is not within the powers confided to the Government of the United States , but belongs exclusively to the States . Here again we are met with the theory that the Government of the United States does not rest upon the soil and territory of the country . We think that this theory is founded on an entire misconception of the nature and powers of that Government . We hold it to be an incontrovertible principle that the Government of the United States may , by means of physical force , exercised through its official agents , execute on every foot of American soil the powers and functions that belong to it . This necessarily involves the power to command obedience to its laws , and hence the power to keep the peace to that extent . This power to enforce its laws and to execute its functions in all places does not derogate from the power of the State to execute its laws at the same time and in the same places . The one does not exclude the other , except where both can not be executed at the same time . In that case the words of the Constitution itself show which is to yield . This Constitution and all laws which shall be made in pursuance thereof shall be the supreme law of the land . In conclusion it is proper to say that no objection would be made to the appointment of officers to act with reference to the elections by the courts of the United States , and that I am in favor of appointing officers to supervise and protect the elections without regard to party but the bill before me , while it recognizes the power and duty of the United States to provide officers to guard and scrutinize the Congressional elections , fails to adapt its provisions to the existing laws so as to secure efficient supervision and protection . It is therefore returned to the Senate , in which it originated , for that further consideration which is contemplated by the Constitution .<speech_sep>To the House of Representatives Having considered the bill entitled An act to facilitate the refunding of the national debt , I am constrained to return it to the House of Representatives , in which it originated , with the following statement of my objections to its passage The imperative necessity for prompt action and the pressure of public duties in this closing week of my term of office compel me to refrain from any attempt to make a full and satisfactory presentation of the objections to the bill . The importance of the passage at the present session of Congress of a suitable measure for the refunding of the national debt which is about to mature is generally recognized . It has been urged upon the attention of Congress by the Secretary of the Treasury and in my last annual message . If successfully accomplished , it will secure a large decrease in the annual interest payment of the nation , and I earnestly recommend , if the bill before me shall fail , that another measure for this purpose be adopted before the present Congress adjourns . While , in my opinion , it would be unwise to authorize the Secretary of the Treasury , in his discretion , to offer to the public bonds bearing 3 1 2 per cent interest in aid of refunding , I should not deem it my duty to interpose my constitutional objection to the passage of the present bill if it did not contain , in its fifth section , provisions which , in my judgment , seriously impair the value and tend to the destruction of the present national banking system of the country . This system has now been in operation almost twenty years . No safer or more beneficial banking system was ever established . Its advantages as a business are free to all who have the necessary capital . It furnishes a currency to the public which for convenience and security of the bill holder has probably never been equaled by that of any other banking system . Its notes are secured by the deposit with the Government of the interest bearing bonds of the United States . The section of the bill before me which relates to the national banking system , and to which objection is made , is not an essential part of a refunding measure . It is as follows SE5 . From and after the 1st day of July , 1881 , the 3 per cent bonds authorized by the first section of this act shall be the only bonds receivable as security for national bank circulation or as security for the safe keeping and prompt payment of the public money deposited with such banks but when any such bonds deposited for the purposes aforesaid shall be designated for purchase or redemption by the Secretary of the Treasury , the banking association depositing the same shall have the right to substitute other issues of the bonds of the United States in lieu thereof Provided , That no bond upon which interest has ceased shall be accepted or shall be continued on deposit as security for circulation or for the safe keeping of the public money and in case bonds so deposited shall not be withdrawn , as provided by law , within thirty days after the interest has ceased thereon , the banking association depositing the same shall be subject to the liabilities and proceedings on the part of the Comptroller provided for in section 5234 of the Revised Statutes of the United States And provided further , That section 4 of the act of June 20 , 1874 , entitled An act fixing the amount of United States notes , providing for a redistribution of the national bank currency , and for other purposes , be , and the same is hereby , repealed , and sections 5159 and 5160 of the Revised Statutes of the United States be , and the same are hereby , reenacted . Under this section it is obvious that no additional banks will hereafter be organized , except possibly in a few cities or localities where the prevailing rates of interest in ordinary business are extremely low . No new banks can be organized and no increase of the capital of existing banks can be obtained except by the purchase and deposit of 3 per cent bonds . No other bonds of the United States can be used for the purpose . The one thousand millions of other bonds recently issued by the United States , and bearing a higher rate of interest than 3 per cent , and therefore a better security for the bill holder , can not after the 1st of July next be received as security for bank circulation . This is a radical change in the banking law . It takes from the banks the right they have heretofore had under the law to purchase and deposit as security for their circulation any of the bonds issued by the United States , and deprives the bill holder of the best security which the banks are able to give by requiring them to deposit bonds having the least value of any bonds issued by the Government . The average rate of taxation of capital employed in banking is more than double the rate of taxation upon capital employed in other legitimate business . Under these circumstances , to amend the banking law so as to deprive the banks of the privilege of securing their notes by the most valuable bonds issued by the Government will , it is believed , in a larger part of the country , be a practical prohibition of the organization of new banks and prevent the existing banks from enlarging their capital . The national banking system , if continued at all , will be a monopoly in the hands of those already engaged in it , who may purchase the Government bonds bearing a more favorable rate of interest than the 3 per cent bonds prior to next July . To prevent the further organization of banks is to put in jeopardy the whole system , by taking from it that feature which makes it , as it now is , a banking system free upon the same terms to all who wish to engage in it . Even the existing banks will be in danger of being driven from business by the additional disadvantages to which they will be subjected by this bill . In short , I can not but regard the fifth section of the bill as a step in the direction of the destruction of the national banking system . Our country , after a long period of business depression , has just entered upon a career of unexampled prosperity . The withdrawal of the currency from circulation of the national banks , and the enforced winding up of the banks in consequence , would inevitably bring serious embarrassment and disaster to the business of the country . Banks of issue are essential instruments of modern commerce . If the present efficient and admirable system of banking is broken down , it will inevitably be followed by a recurrence to other and inferior methods of banking . Any measure looking to such a result will be a disturbing element in our financial system . It will destroy confidence and surely check the growing prosperity of the country Believing that a measure for refunding the national debt is not necessarily connected with the national banking law , and that any refunding act would defeat its own object if it imperiled the national banking system or seriously impaired its usefulness , and convinced that section 5 of the bill before me would , if it should become a law , work great harm , I herewith return the bill to the House of Representatives for that further consideration which is provided for in the Constitution .<speech_sep>