To the Senate and House of Representatives The Nation continues to enjoy noteworthy prosperity . Such prosperity is of course primarily due to the high individual average of our citizenship , taken together with our great natural resources but an important factor therein is the working of our long continued governmental policies . The people have emphatically expressed their approval of the principles underlying these policies , and their desire that these principles be kept substantially unchanged , although of course applied in a progressive spirit to meet changing conditions . The enlargement of scope of the functions of the National Government required by our development as a nation involves , of course , increase of expense and the period of prosperity through which the country is passing justifies expenditures for permanent improvements far greater than would be wise in hard times . Battle ships and forts , public buildings , and improved waterways are investments which should be made when we have the money but abundant revenues and a large surplus always invite extravagance , and constant care should be taken to guard against unnecessary increase of the ordinary expenses of government . The cost of doing Government business should be regulated with the same rigid scrutiny as the cost of doing a private business . In the vast and complicated mechanism of our modern civilized life the dominant note is the note of industralism and the relations of capital and labor , and especially of organized capital and organized labor , to each other and to the public at large come second in importance only to the intimate questions of family life . Our peculiar form of government , with its sharp division of authority between the Nation and the several States , has been on the whole far more advantageous to our development than a more strongly centralized government . But it is undoubtedly responsible for much of the difficulty of meeting with adequate legislation the new problems presented by the total change in industrial conditions on this continent during the last half century . In actual practice it has proved exceedingly difficult , and in many cases impossible , to get unanimity of wise action among the various States on these subjects . From the very nature of the case this is especially true of the laws affecting the employment of capital in huge masses . With regard to labor the problem is no less important , but it is simpler . As long as the States retain the primary control of the police power the circumstances must be altogether extreme which require interference by the Federal authorities , whether in the way of safeguarding the rights of labor or in the way of seeing that wrong is not done by unruly persons who shield themselves behind the name of labor . If there is resistance to the Federal courts , interference with the mails , or interstate commerce , or molestation of Federal property , or if the State authorities in some crisis which they are unable to face call for help , then the Federal Government may interfere but though such interference may be caused by a condition of things arising out of trouble connected with some question of labor , the interference itself simply takes the form of restoring order without regard to the questions which have caused the breach of order for to keep order is a primary duty and in a time of disorder and violence all other questions sink into abeyance until order has been restored . In the District of Columbia and in the Territories the Federal law covers the entire field of government but the labor question is only acute in populous centers of commerce , manufactures , or mining . Nevertheless , both in the enactment and in the enforcement of law the Federal Government within its restricted sphere should set an example to the State governments , especially in a matter so vital as this affecting labor . I believe that under modern industrial conditions it is often necessary , and even where not necessary it is yet often wise , that there should be organization of labor in order better to secure the rights of the individual wage worker . All encouragement should be given to any such organization so long as it is conducted with a due and decent regard for the rights of others . There are in this country some labor unions which have habitually , and other labor unions which have often , been among the most effective agents in working for good citizenship and for uplifting the condition of those whose welfare should be closest to our hearts . But when any labor union seeks improper ends , or seeks to achieve proper ends by improper means , all good citizens and more especially all honorable public servants must oppose the wrongdoing as resolutely as they would oppose the wrongdoing of any great corporation . Of course any violence , brutality , or corruption , should not for one moment be tolerated . Wage workers have an entire right to organize and by all peaceful and honorable means to endeavor to persuade their fellows to join with them in organizations . They have a legal right , which , according to circumstances , may or may not be a moral right , to refuse to work in company with men who decline to join their organizations . They have under no circumstances the right to commit violence upon these , whether capitalists or wage workers , who refuse to support their organizations , or who side with those with whom they are at odds for mob rule is intolerable in any form . The wage workers are peculiarly entitled to the protection and the encouragement of the law . From the very nature of their occupation railroad men , for instance , are liable to be maimed in doing the legitimate work of their profession , unless the railroad companies are required by law to make ample provision for their safety . The Administration has been zealous in enforcing the existing law for this purpose . That law should be amended and strengthened . Wherever the National Government has power there should be a stringent employer s liability law , which should apply to the Government itself where the Government is an employer of labor . In my Message to the Fifty seventh Congress , at its second session , I urged the passage of an employer s liability law for the District of Columbia . I now renew that recommendation , and further recommend that the Congress appoint a commission to make a comprehensive study of employer s liability with the view of extending the provisions of a great and constitutional law to all employments within the scope of Federal power . The Government has recognized heroism upon the water , and bestows medals of honor upon those persons who by extreme and heroic daring have endangered their lives in saving , or endeavoring to save , lives from the perils of the sea in the waters over which the United States has jurisdiction , or upon an American vessel . This recognition should be extended to cover cases of conspicuous bravery and self sacrifice in the saving of life in private employments under the jurisdiction of the United States , and particularly in the land commerce of the Nation . The ever increasing casualty list upon our railroads is a matter of grave public concern , and urgently calls for action by the Congress . In the matter of speed and comfort of railway travel our railroads give at least as good service as those of any other nation , and there is no reason why this service should not also be as safe as human ingenuity can make it . Many of our leading roads have been foremost in the adoption of the most approved safeguards for the protection of travelers and employees , yet the list of clearly avoidable accidents continues unduly large . The passage of a law requiring the adoption of a block signal system has been proposed to the Congress . I earnestly concur in that recommendation , and would also point out to the Congress the urgent need of legislation in the interest of the public safety limiting the hours of labor for railroad employees in train service upon railroads engaged in interstate commerce , and providing that only trained and experienced persons be employed in positions of responsibility connected with the operation of trains . Of course nothing can ever prevent accidents caused by human weakness or misconduct and there should be drastic punishment for any railroad employee , whether officer or man , who by issuance of wrong orders or by disobedience of orders causes disaster . The law of 1901 , requiring interstate railroads to make monthly reports of all accidents to passengers and employees on duty , should also be amended so as to empower the Government to make a personal investigation , through proper officers , of all accidents involving loss of life which seem to require investigation , with a requirement that the results of such investigation be made public . The safety appliance law , as amended by the act of March 2 , 1903 , has proved beneficial to railway employees , and in order that its provisions may be properly carried out , the force of inspectors provided for by appropriation should be largely increased . This service is analogous to the Steamboat Inspection Service , and deals with even more important interests . It has passed the experimental stage and demonstrated its utility , and should receive generous recognition by the Congress . There is no objection to employees of the Government forming or belonging to unions but the Government can neither discriminate for nor discriminate against nonunion men who are in its employment , or who seek to be employed under it . Moreover , it is a very grave impropriety for Government employees to band themselves together for the purpose of extorting improperly high salaries from the Government . Especially is this true of those within the classified service . The letter carriers , both municipal and rural , are as a whole an excellent body of public servants . They should be amply paid . But their payment must be obtained by arguing their claims fairly and honorably before the Congress , and not by banding together for the defeat of those Congressmen who refuse to give promises which they can not in conscience give . The Administration has already taken steps to prevent and punish abuses of this nature but it will be wise for the Congress to supplement this action by legislation . Much can be done by the Government in labor matters merely by giving publicity to certain conditions . The Bureau of Labor has done excellent work of this kind in many different directions . I shall shortly lay before you in a special message the full report of the investigation of the Bureau of Labor into the Colorado mining strike , as this was a strike in which certain very evil forces , which are more or less at work everywhere under the conditions of modern industrialism , became startlingly prominent . It is greatly to be wished that the Department of Commerce and Labor , through the Labor Bureau , should compile and arrange for the Congress a list of the labor laws of the various States , and should be given the means to investigate and report to the Congress upon the labor conditions in the manufacturing and mining regions throughout the country , both as to wages , as to hours of labor , as to the labor of women and children , and as to the effect in the various labor centers of immigration from abroad . In this investigation especial attention should be paid to the conditions of child labor and child labor legislation in the several States . Such an investigation must necessarily take into account many of the problems with which this question of child labor is connected . These problems can be actually met , in most cases , only by the States themselves but the lack of proper legislation in one State in such a matter as child labor often renders it excessively difficult to establish protective restriction upon the work in another State having the same industries , so that the worst tends to drag down the better . For this reason , it would be well for the Nation at least to endeavor to secure comprehensive information as to the conditions of labor of children in the different States . Such investigation and publication by the National Government would tend toward the securing of approximately uniform legislation of the proper character among the several States . When we come to deal with great corporations the need for the Government to act directly is far greater than in the case of labor , because great corporations can become such only by engaging in interstate commerce , and interstate commerce is peculiarly the field of the General Government . It is an absurdity to expect to eliminate the abuses in great corporations by State action . It is difficult to be patient with an argument that such matters should be left to the States because more than one State pursues the policy of creating on easy terms corporations which are never operated within that State at all , but in other States whose laws they ignore . The National Government alone can deal adequately with these great corporations . To try to deal with them in an intemperate , destructive , or demagogic spirit would , in all probability , mean that nothing whatever would be accomplished , and , with absolute certainty , that if anything were accomplished it would be of a harmful nature . The American people need to continue to show the very qualities that they have shown that is , moderation , good sense , the earnest desire to avoid doing any damage , and yet the quiet determination to proceed , step by step , without halt and without hurry , in eliminating or at least in minimizing whatever of mischief or evil there is to interstate commerce in the conduct of great corporations . They are acting in no spirit of hostility to wealth , either individual or corporate . They are not against the rich man any more than against the poor man . On the contrary , they are friendly alike toward rich man and toward poor man , provided only that each acts in a spirit of justice and decency toward his fellows . Great corporations are necessary , and only men of great and singular mental power can manage such corporations successfully , and such men must have great rewards . But these corporations should be managed with due regard to the interest of the public as a whole . Where this can be done under the present laws it must be done . Where these laws come short others should be enacted to supplement them . Yet we must never forget the determining factor in every kind of work , of head or hand , must be the man s own good sense , courage , and kindliness . More important than any legislation is the gradual growth of a feeling of responsibility and forbearance among capitalists , and wage workers alike a feeling of respect on the part of each man for the rights of others a feeling of broad community of interest , not merely of capitalists among themselves , and of wage workers among themselves , but of capitalists and wage workers in their relations to each other , and of both in their relations to their fellows who with them make up the body politic . There are many captains of industry , many labor leaders , who realize this . A recent speech by the president of one of our great railroad systems to the employees of that system contains sound common sense . It rims in part as follows It is my belief we can better serve each other , better understand the man as well as his business , when meeting face to face , exchanging views , and realizing from personal contact we serve but one interest , that of our mutual prosperity . Serious misunderstandings can not occur where personal good will exists and opportunity for personal explanation is present . In my early business life I had experience with men of affairs of a character to make me desire to avoid creating a like feeling of resentment to myself and the interests in my charge , should fortune ever place me in authority , and I am solicitous of a measure of confidence on the part of the public and our employees that I shall hope may be warranted by the fairness and good fellowship I intend shall prevail in our relationship . But do not feel I am disposed to grant unreasonable requests , spend the money of our company unnecessarily or without value received , nor expect the days of mistakes are disappearing , or that cause for complaint will not continually occur simply to correct such abuses as may be discovered , to better conditions as fast as reasonably may be expected , constantly striving , with varying success , for that improvement we all desire , to convince you there is a force at work in the right direction , all the time making progress is the disposition with which I have come among you , asking your good will and encouragement . The day has gone by when a corporation can be handled successfully in defiance of the public will , even though that will be unreasonable and wrong . A public may be led , but not driven , and I prefer to go with it and shape or modify , in a measure , its opinion , rather than be swept from my bearings , with loss to myself and the interests in my charge . Violent prejudice exists towards corporate activity and capital today , much of it founded in reason , more in apprehension , and a large measure is due to the personal traits of arbitrary , unreasonable , incompetent , and offensive men in positions of authority . The accomplishment of results by indirection , the endeavor to thwart the intention , if not the expressed letter of the law the will of the people , a disregard of the rights of others , a disposition to withhold what is due , to force by main strength or inactivity a result not justified , depending upon the weakness of the claimant and his indisposition to become involved in litigation , has created a sentiment harmful in the extreme and a disposition to consider anything fair that gives gain to the individual at the expense of the company . If corporations are to continue to do the world s work , as they are best fitted to , these qualities in their representatives that have resulted in the present prejudice against them must be relegated to the background . The corporations must come out into the open and see and be seen . They must take the public into their confidence and ask for what they want , and no more , and be prepared to explain satisfactorily what advantage will accrue to the public if they are given their desires for they are permitted to exist not that they may make money solely , but that they may effectively serve those from whom they derive their power . Publicity , and not secrecy , will win hereafter , and laws be construed by their intent and not by their letter , otherwise public utilities will be owned and operated by the public which created them , even though the service be less efficient and the result less satisfactory from a financial standpoint . The Bureau of Corporations has made careful preliminary investigation of many important corporations . It will make a special report on the beef industry . The policy of the Bureau is to accomplish the purposes of its creation by co operation , not antagonism by making constructive legislation , not destructive prosecution , the immediate object of its inquiries by conservative investigation of law and fact , and by refusal to issue incomplete and hence necessarily inaccurate reports . Its policy being thus one of open inquiry into , and not attack upon , business , the Bureau has been able to gain not only the confidence , but , better still , the cooperation of men engaged in legitimate business . The Bureau offers to the Congress the means of getting at the cost of production of our various great staples of commerce . Of necessity the careful investigation of special corporations will afford the Commissioner knowledge of certain business facts , the publication of which might be an improper infringement of private rights . The method of making public the results of these investigations affords , under the law , a means for the protection of private rights . The Congress will have all facts except such as would give to another corporation information which would injure the legitimate business of a competitor and destroy the incentive for individual superiority and thrift . The Bureau has also made exhaustive examinations into the legal condition under which corporate business is carried on in the various States into all judicial decisions on the subject and into the various systems of corporate taxation in use . I call special attention to the report of the chief of the Bureau and I earnestly ask that the Congress carefully consider the report and recommendations of the Commissioner on this subject . The business of insurance vitally affects the great mass of the people of the United States and is national and not local in its application . It involves a multitude of transactions among the people of the different States and between American companies and foreign governments . I urge that the Congress carefully consider whether the power of the Bureau of Corporations can not constitutionally be extended to cover interstate transactions in insurance . Above all else , we must strive to keep the highways of commerce open to all on equal terms and to do this it is necessary to put a complete stop to all rebates . Whether the shipper or the railroad is to blame makes no difference the rebate must be stopped , the abuses of the private car and private terminal track and side track systems must be stopped , and the legislation of the Fifty eighth Congress which declares it to be unlawful for any person or corporation to offer , gram , give , solicit , accept , or receive any rebate , concession , or discrimination in respect of the transportation of any property in interstate or foreign commerce whereby such property shall by any device whatever be transported at a less rate than that named in the tariffs published by the carrier must be enforced . For some time after the enactment of the Act to Regulate Commerce it remained a mooted question whether that act conferred upon the Interstate Commerce Commission the power , after it had found a challenged rate to be unreasonable , to declare what thereafter should , prima facie , be the reasonable maximum rate for the transportation in dispute . The Supreme Court finally resolved that question in the negative , so that as the law now stands the Commission simply possess the bare power to denounce a particular rate as unreasonable . While I am of the opinion that at present it would be undesirable , if it were not impracticable , finally to clothe the Commission with general authority to fix railroad rates , I do believe that , as a fair security to shippers , the Commission should be vested with the power , where a given rate has been challenged and after full hearing found to be unreasonable , to decide , subject to judicial review , what shall be a reasonable rate to take its place the ruling of the Commission to take effect immediately , and to obtain unless and until it is reversed by the court of review . The Government must in increasing degree supervise and regulate the workings of the railways engaged in interstate commerce and such increased supervision is the only alternative to an increase of the present evils on the one hand or a still more radical policy on the other . In my judgment the most important legislative act now needed as regards the regulation of corporations is this act to confer on the Interstate Commerce Commission the power to revise rates and regulations , the revised rate to at once go into effect , and stay in effect unless and until the court of review reverses it . Steamship companies engaged in interstate commerce and protected in our coastwise trade should be held to a strict observance of the interstate commerce act . In pursuing the set plan to make the city of Washington an example to other American municipalities several points should be kept in mind by the legislators . In the first place , the people of this country should clearly understand that no amount of industrial prosperity , and above all no leadership in international industrial competition , can in any way atone for the sapping of the vitality of those who are usually spoken of as the working classes . The farmers , the mechanics , the skilled and unskilled laborers , the small shop keepers , make up the bulk of the population of any country and upon their well being , generation after generation , the well being of the country and the race depends . Rapid development in wealth and industrial leadership is a good thing , but only if it goes hand in hand with improvement , and not deterioration , physical and moral . The over crowding of cities and the draining of country districts are unhealthy and even dangerous symptoms in our modern life . We should not permit overcrowding in cities . In certain European cities it is provided by law that the population of towns shall not be allowed to exceed a very limited density for a given area , so that the increase in density must be continually pushed back into a broad zone around the center of the town , this zone having great avenues or parks within it . The death rate statistics show a terrible increase in mortality , and especially in infant mortality , in overcrowded tenements . The poorest families in tenement houses live in one room , and it appears that in these one room tenements the average death rate for a number of given cities at home and abroad is about twice what it is in a two room tenement , four times what it is in a three room tenement , and eight times what it is in a tenement consisting of four rooms or over . These figures vary somewhat for different cities , but they approximate in each city those given above and in all cases the increase of mortality , and especially of infant mortality , with the decrease in the number of rooms used by the family and with the consequent overcrowding is startling . The slum exacts a heavy total of death from those who dwell therein and this is the case not merely in the great crowded slums of high buildings in New York and Chicago , but in the alley slums of Washington . In Washington people can not afford to ignore the harm that this causes . No Christian and civilized community can afford to show a happy go lucky lack of concern for the youth of to day for , if so , the community will have to pay a terrible penalty of financial burden and social degradation in the to morrow . There should be severe child labor and factory inspection laws . It is very desirable that married women should not work in factories . The prime duty of the man is to work , to be the breadwinner the prime duty of the woman is to be the mother , the housewife . All questions of tariff and finance sink into utter insignificance when compared with the tremendous , the vital importance of trying to shape conditions so that these two duties of the man and of the woman can be fulfilled under reasonably favorable circumstances . If a race does not have plenty of children , or if the children do not grow up , or if when they grow up they are unhealthy in body and stunted or vicious in mind , then that race is decadent , and no heaping up of wealth , no splendor of momentary material prosperity , can avail in any degree as offsets . The Congress has the same power of legislation for the District of Columbia which the State legislatures have for the various States . The problems incident to our highly complex modern industrial civilization , with its manifold and perplexing tendencies both for good and for evil , are far less sharply eccentuated in the city of Washington than in most other cities . For this very reason it is easier to deal with the various phases of these problems in Washington , and the District of Columbia government should be a model for the other municipal governments of the Nation , in all such matters as supervision of the housing of the poor , the creation of small parks in the districts inhabited by the poor , in laws affecting labor , in laws providing for the taking care of the children , in truant laws , and in providing schools . In the vital matter of taking care of children , much advantage could be gained by a careful study of what has been accomplished in such States as Illinois and Colorado by the juvenile courts . The work of the juvenile court is really a work of character building . It is now generally recognized that young boys and young girls who go wrong should not be treated as criminals , not even necessarily as needing reformation , but rather as needing to have their characters formed , and for this end to have them tested and developed by a system of probation . Much admirable work has been done in many of our Commonwealths by earnest men and women who have made a special study of the needs of those classes of children which furnish the greatest number of juvenile offenders , and therefore the greatest number of adult offenders and by their aid , and by profiting by the experiences of the different States and cities in these matters , it would be easy to provide a good code for the District of Columbia . Several considerations suggest the need for a systematic investigation into and improvement of housing conditions in Washington . The hidden residential alleys are breeding grounds of vice and disease , and should be opened into minor streets . For a number of years influential citizens have joined with the District Commissioners in the vain endeavor to secure laws permitting the condemnation of insanitary dwellings . The local death rates , especially from preventable diseases , are so unduly high as to suggest that the exceptional wholesomeness of Washington s better sections is offset by bad conditions in her poorer neighborhoods . A special Commission on Housing and Health Conditions in the National Capital would not only bring about the reformation of existing evils , but would also formulate an appropriate building code to protect the city from mammoth brick tenements and other evils which threaten to develop here as they have in other cities . That the Nation s Capital should be made a model for other municipalities is an ideal which appeals to all patriotic citizens everywhere , and such a special Commission might map out and organize the city s future development in lines of civic social service , just as Major L Enfant and the recent Park Commission planned the arrangement of her streets and parks . It is mortifying to remember that Washington has no compulsory school attendance law and that careful inquiries indicate the habitual absence from school of some twenty per cent of all children between the ages of eight and fourteen . It must be evident to all who consider the problems of neglected child life or the benefits of compulsory education in other cities that one of the most urgent needs of the National Capital is a law requiring the school attendance of all children , this law to be enforced by attendance agents directed by the board of education . Public play grounds are necessary means for the development of wholesome citizenship in modern cities . It is important that the work inaugurated here through voluntary efforts should be taken up and extended through Congressional appropriation of funds sufficient to equip and maintain numerous convenient small play grounds upon land which can be secured without purchase or rental . It is also desirable that small vacant places be purchased and reserved as small park play grounds in densely settled sections of the city which now have no public open spaces and are destined soon to be built up solidly . All these needs should be met immediately . To meet them would entail expenses but a corresponding saving could be made by stopping the building of streets and levelling of ground for purposes largely speculative in outlying parts of the city . There are certain offenders , whose criminality takes the shape of brutality and cruelty towards the weak , who need a special type of punishment . The wife beater , for example , is inadequately punished by imprisonment for imprisonment may often mean nothing to him , while it may cause hunger and want to the wife and children who have been the victims of his brutality . Probably some form of corporal punishment would be the most adequate way of meeting this kind of crime . The Department of Agriculture has grown into an educational institution with a faculty of two thousand specialists making research into all the sciences of production . The Congress appropriates , directly and indirectly , six millions of dollars annually to carry on this work . It reaches every State and Territory in the Union and the islands of the sea lately come under our flag . Co operation is had with the State experiment stations , and with many other institutions and individuals . The world is carefully searched for new varieties of grains , fruits , grasses , vegetables , trees , and shrubs , suitable to various localities in our country and marked benefit to our producers has resulted . The activities of our age in lines of research have reached the tillers of the soil and inspired them with ambition to know more of the principles that govern the forces of nature with which they have to deal . Nearly half of the people of this country devote their energies to growing things from the soil . Until a recent date little has been done to prepare these millions for their life work . In most lines of human activity college trained men are the leaders . The farmer had no opportunity for special training until the Congress made provision for it forty years ago . During these years progress has been made and teachers have been prepared . Over five thousand students are in attendance at our State agricultural colleges . The Federal Government expends ten millions of dollars annually toward this education and for research in Washington and in the several States and Territories . The Department of Agriculture has given facilities for post graduate work to five hundred young men during the last seven years , preparing them for advance lines of work in the Department and in the State institutions . The facts concerning meteorology and its relations to plant and animal life are being systematically inquired into . Temperature and moisture are controlling factors in all agricultural operations . The seasons of the cyclones of the Caribbean Sea and their paths are being forecasted with increasing accuracy . The cold winds that come from the north are anticipated and their times and intensity told to farmers , gardeners , and fruiterers in all southern localities . We sell two hundred and fifty million dollars worth of animals and animal products to foreign countries every year , in addition to supplying our own people more cheaply and abundantly than any other nation is able to provide for its people . Successful manufacturing depends primarily on cheap food , which accounts to a considerable extent for our growth in this direction . The Department of Agriculture , by careful inspection of meats , guards the health of our people and gives clean bills of health to deserving exports it is prepared to deal promptly with imported diseases of animals , and maintain the excellence of our flocks and herds in this respect . There should be an annual census of the live stock of the Nation . We sell abroad about six hundred million dollars worth of plants and their products every year . Strenuous efforts are being made to import from foreign countries such grains as are suitable to our varying localities . Seven years ago we bought three fourths of our rice by helping the rice growers on the Gulf coast to secure seeds from the Orient suited to their conditions , and by giving them adequate protection , they now supply home demand and export to the islands of the Caribbean Sea and to other rice growing countries . Wheat and other grains have been imported from light rainfall countries to our lands in the West and Southwest that have not grown crops because of light precipitation , resulting in an extensive addition to our cropping area and our home making territory that can not be irrigated . Ten million bushels of first class macaroni wheat were grown from these experimental importations last year . Fruits suitable to our soils and climates are being imported from all the countries of the Old World the fig from Turkey , the almond from Spain , the date from Algeria , the mango from India . We are helping our fruit growers to get their crops into European markets by studying methods of preservation through refrigeration , packing , and handling , which have been quite successful . We are helping our hop growers by importing varieties that ripen earlier and later than the kinds they have been raising , thereby lengthening the harvesting season . The cotton crop of the country is threatened with root rot , the bollworm , and the boll weevil . Our pathologists will find immune varieties that will resist the root disease , and the bollworm can be dealt with , but the boll weevil is a serious menace to the cotton crop . It is a Central American insect that has become acclimated in Texas and has done great damage . A scientist of the Department of Agriculture has found the weevil at home in Guatemala being kept in check by an ant , which has been brought to our cotton fields for observation . It is hoped that it may serve a good purpose . The soils of the country are getting attention from the farmer s standpoint , and interesting results are following . We have duplicates of the soils that grow the wrapper tobacco in Sumatra and the filler tobacco in Cuba . It will be only a question of time when the large amounts paid to these countries will be paid to our own people . The reclamation of alkali lands is progressing , to give object lessons to our people in methods by which worthless lands may be made productive . The insect friends and enemies of the farmer are getting attention . The enemy of the San Jose scale was found near the Great Wall of China , and is now cleaning up all our orchards . The fig fertilizing insect imported from Turkey has helped to establish an industry in California that amounts to from fifty to one hundred tons of dried figs annually , and is extending over the Pacific coast . A parasitic fly from South Africa is keeping in subjection the black scale , the worst pest of the orange and lemon industry in California . Careful preliminary work is being done towards producing our own silk . The mulberry is being distributed in large numbers , eggs are being imported and distributed , improved reels were imported from Europe last year , and two expert reelers were brought to Washington to reel the crop of cocoons and teach the art to our own people . The crop reporting system of the Department of Agriculture is being brought closer to accuracy every year . It has two hundred and fifty thousand reporters selected from people in eight vocations in life . It has arrangements with most European countries for interchange of estimates , so that our people may know as nearly as possible with what they must compete . During the two and a half years that have elapsed since the passage of the reclamation act rapid progress has been made in the surveys and examinations of the opportunities for reclamation in the thirteen States and three Territories of the arid West . Construction has already been begun on the largest and most important of the irrigation works , and plans are being completed for works which will utilize the funds now available . The operations are being carried on by the Reclamation Service , a corps of engineers selected through competitive civil service examinations . This corps includes experienced consulting and constructing engineers as well as various experts in mechanical and legal matters , and is composed largely of men who have spent most of their lives in practical affairs connected with irrigation . The larger problems have been solved and it now remains to execute with care , economy , and thoroughness the work which has been laid out . All important details are being carefully considered by boards of consulting engineers , selected for their thorough knowledge and practical experience . Each project is taken up on the ground by competent men and viewed from the standpoint of the creation of prosperous homes , and of promptly refunding to the Treasury the cost of construction . The reclamation act has been found to be remarkably complete and effective , and so broad in its provisions that a wide range of undertakings has been possible under it . At the same time , economy is guaranteed by the fact that the funds must ultimately be returned to be used over again . It is the cardinal principle of the forest reserve policy of this Administration that the reserves are for use . Whatever interferes with the use of their resources is to be avoided by every possible means . But these resources must be used in such a way as to make them permanent . The forest policy of the Government is just now a subject of vivid public interest throughout the West and to the people of the United States in general . The forest reserves themselves are of extreme value to the present as well as to the future welfare of all the western public land States . They powerfully affect the use and disposal of the public lands . They are of special importance because they preserve the water supply and the supply of timber for domestic purposes , and so promote settlement under the reclamation act . Indeed , they are essential to the welfare of every one of the great interests of the West . Forest reserves are created for two principal purposes . The first is to preserve the water supply . This is their most important use . The principal users of the water thus preserved are irrigation ranchers and settlers , cities and towns to whom their municipal water supplies are of the very first importance , users and furnishers of water power , and the users of water for domestic , manufacturing , mining , and other purposes . All these are directly dependent upon the forest reserves . The second reason for which forest reserves are created is to preserve the timber supply for various classes of wood users . Among the more important of these are settlers under the reclamation act and other acts , for whom a cheap and accessible supply of timber for domestic uses is absolutely necessary miners and prospectors , who are in serious danger of losing their timber supply by fire or through export by lumber companies when timber lands adjacent to their mines pass into private ownership lumbermen , transportation companies , builders , and commercial interests in general . Although the wisdom of creating forest reserves is nearly everywhere heartily recognized , yet in a few localities there has been misunderstanding and complaint . The following statement is therefore desirable The forest reserve policy can be successful only when it has the full support of the people of the West . It can not safely , and should not in any case , be imposed upon them against their will . But neither can we accept the views of those whose only interest in the forest is temporary who are anxious to reap what they have not sown and then move away , leaving desolation behind them . On the contrary , it is everywhere and always the interest of the permanent settler and the permanent business man , the man with a stake in the country , which must be considered and which must decide . The making of forest reserves within railroad and wagon road land grant limits will hereafter , as for the past three years , be so managed as to prevent the issue , under the act of June 4 , 1897 , of base for exchange or lieu selection usually called scrip . In all cases where forest reserves within areas covered by land grants appear to be essential to the prosperity of settlers , miners , or others , the Government lands within such proposed forest reserves will , as in the recent past , be withdrawn from sale or entry pending the completion of such negotiations with the owners of the land grants as will prevent the creation of so called scrip . It was formerly the custom to make forest reserves without first getting definite and detailed information as to the character of land and timber within their boundaries . This method of action often resulted in badly chosen boundaries and consequent injustice to settlers and others . Therefore this Administration adopted the present method of first withdrawing the land from disposal , followed by careful examination on the ground and the preparation of detailed maps and descriptions , before any forest reserve is created . I have repeatedly called attention to the confusion which exists in Government forest matters because the work is scattered among three independent organizations . The United States is the only one of the great nations in which the forest work of the Government is not concentrated under one department , in consonance with the plainest dictates of good administration and common sense . The present arrangement is bad from every point of view . Merely to mention it is to prove that it should be terminated at once . As I have repeatedly recommended , all the forest work of the Government should be concentrated in the Department of Agriculture , where the larger part of that work is already done , where practically all of the trained foresters of the Government are employed , where chiefly in Washington there is comprehensive first class knowledge of the problems of the reserves acquired on the ground , where all problems relating to growth from the soil are already gathered , and where all the sciences auxiliary to forestry are at hand for prompt and effective co operation . These reasons are decisive in themselves , but it should be added that the great organizations of citizens whose interests are affected by the forest reserves , such as the National Live Stock Association , the National Wool Growers Association , the American Mining Congress , the national Irrigation Congress , and the National Board of Trade , have uniformly , emphatically , and most of them repeatedly , expressed themselves in favor of placing all Government forest work in the Department of Agriculture because of the peculiar adaptation of that Department for it . It is true , also , that the forest services of nearly all the great nations of the world are under the respective departments of agriculture , while in but two of the smaller nations and in one colony are they under the department of the interior . This is the result of long and varied experience and it agrees fully with the requirements of good administration in our own case . The creation of a forest service in the Department of Agriculture will have for its important results First . A better handling of all forest work because it will be under a single head , and because the vast and indispensable experience of the Department in all matters pertaining to the forest reserves , to forestry in general , and to other forms of production from the soil , will be easily and rapidly accessible . Second . The reserves themselves , being handled from the point of view of the man in the field , instead of the man in the office , will be more easily and more widely useful to the people of the West than has been the case hitherto . Third . Within a comparatively short time the reserves will become self supporting . This is important , because continually and rapidly increasing appropriations will be necessary for the proper care of this exceedingly important interest of the Nation , and they can and should he offset by returns from the National forests . Under similar circumstances the forest possessions of other great nations form an important source of revenue to their governments . Every administrative officer concerned is convinced of the necessity for the proposed consolidation of forest work in the Department of Agriculture , and I myself have urged it more than once in former messages . Again I commend it to the early and favorable consideration of the Congress . The interests of the Nation at large and of the West in particular have suffered greatly because of the delay . I call the attention of the Congress again to the report and recommendation of the Commission on the Public Lands forwarded by me to the second session of the present Congress . The Commission has prosecuted its investigations actively during the past season , and a second report is now in an advanced stage of preparation . In connection with the work of the forest reserves I desire again to urge upon the Congress the importance of authorizing the President to set aside certain portions of these reserves or other public lands as game refuges for the preservation of the bison , the wapiti , and other large beasts once so abundant in our woods and mountains and on our great plains , and now tending toward extinction . Every support should be given to the authorities of the Yellowstone Park in their successful efforts at preserving the large creatures therein and at very little expense portions of the public domain in other regions which are wholly unsuited to agricultural settlement could be similarly utilized . We owe it to future generations to keep alive the noble and beautiful creatures which by their presence add such distinctive character to the American wilderness . The limits of the Yellowstone Park should be extended southwards . The Canyon of the Colorado should be made a national park and the national park system should include the Yosemite and as many as possible of the groves of giant trees in California . The veterans of the Civil War have a claim upon the Nation such as no other body of our citizens possess . The Pension Bureau has never in its history been managed in a more satisfactory manner than is now the case . The progress of the Indians toward civilization , though not rapid , is perhaps all that could be hoped for in view of the circumstances . Within the past year many tribes have shown , in a degree greater than ever before , an appreciation of the necessity of work . This changed attitude is in part due to the policy recently pursued of reducing the amount of subsistence to the Indians , and thus forcing them , through sheer necessity , to work for a livelihood . The policy , though severe , is a useful one , but it is to be exercised only with judgment and with a full understanding of the conditions which exist in each community for which it is intended . On or near the Indian reservations there is usually very little demand for labor , and if the Indians are to earn their living and when work can not be furnished from outside which is always preferable , then it must be furnished by the Government . Practical instruction of this kind would in a few years result in the forming of habits of regular industry , which would render the Indian a producer and would effect a great reduction in the cost of his maintenance . It is commonly declared that the slow advance of the Indians is due to the unsatisfactory character of the men appointed to take immediate charge of them , and to some extent this is true . While the standard of the employees in the Indian Service shows great improvement over that of bygone years , and while actual corruption or flagrant dishonesty is now the rare exception , it is nevertheless the fact that the salaries paid Indian agents are not large enough to attract the best men to that field of work . To achieve satisfactory results the official in charge of an Indian tribe should possess the high qualifications which are required in the manager of a large business , but only in exceptional cases is it possible to secure men of such a type for these positions . Much better service , however , might be obtained from those now holding the places were it practicable to get out of them the best that is in them , and this should be done by bringing them constantly into closer touch with their superior officers . An agent who has been content to draw his salary , giving in return the least possible equivalent in effort and service , may , by proper treatment , by suggestion and encouragement , or persistent urging , be stimulated to greater effort and induced to take a more active personal interest in his work . Under existing conditions an Indian agent in the distant West may be wholly out of touch with the office of the Indian Bureau . He may very well feel that no one takes a personal interest in him or his efforts . Certain routine duties in the way of reports and accounts are required of him , but there is no one with whom he may intelligently consult on matters vital to his work , except after long delay . Such a man would be greatly encouraged and aided by personal contact with some one whose interest in Indian affairs and whose authority in the Indian Bureau were greater than his own , and such contact would be certain to arouse and constantly increase the interest he takes in his work . The distance which separates the agents the workers in the field from the Indian Office in Washington is a chief obstacle to Indian progress . Whatever shall more closely unite these two branches of the Indian Service , and shall enable them to co operate more heartily and more effectively , will be for the increased efficiency of the work and the betterment of the race for whose improvement the Indian Bureau was established . The appointment of a field assistant to the Commissioner of Indian Affairs would be certain to insure this good end . Such an official , if possessed of the requisite energy and deep interest in the work , would be a most efficient factor in bringing into closer relationship and a more direct union of effort the Bureau in Washington and its agents in the field and with the co operation of its branches thus secured the Indian Bureau would , in measure fuller than ever before , lift up the savage toward that self help and self reliance which constitute the man . In 1907 there will be held at Hampton Roads the tricentennial celebration of the settlement at Jamestown , Virginia , with which the history of what has now become the United States really begins . I commend this to your favorable consideration . It is an event of prime historic significance , in which all the people of the United States should feel , and should show , great and general interest . In the Post Office Department the service has increased in efficiency , and conditions as to revenue and expenditure continue satisfactory . The increase of revenue during the year was 9 , 358 , 181 . 10 , or 6 . 9 per cent , the total receipts amounting to 143 , 382 , 624 . 34 . The expenditures were 152 , 362 , 116 . 70 , an increase of about 9 per cent over the previous year , being thus 8 , 979 , 492 . 36 in excess of the current revenue . Included in these expenditures was a total appropriation of 152 , 956 , 637 . 35 for the continuation and extension of the rural free delivery service , which was an increase of 4 , 902 , 237 . 35 over the amount expended for this purpose in the preceding fiscal year . Large as this expenditure has been the beneficent results attained in extending the free distribution of mails to the residents of rural districts have justified the wisdom of the outlay . Statistics brought down to the 1st of October , 1904 , show that on that date there were 27 , 138 rural routes established , serving approximately 12 , 000 , 000 of people in rural districts remote from post offices , and that there were pending at that time 3 , 859 petitions for the establishment of new rural routes . Unquestionably some part of the general increase in receipts is due to the increased postal facilities which the rural service has afforded . The revenues have also been aided greatly by amendments in the classification of mail matter , and the curtailment of abuses of the second class mailing privilege . The average increase in the volume of mail matter for the period beginning with 1902 and ending June , 1905 that portion for 1905 being estimated , is 40 . 47 per cent , as compared with 25 . 46 per cent for the period immediately preceding , and 15 . 92 for the four year period immediately preceding that . Our consular system needs improvement . Salaries should be substituted for fees , and the proper classification , grading , and transfer of consular officers should be provided . I am not prepared to say that a competitive system of examinations for appointment would work well but by law it should be provided that consuls should be familiar , according to places for which they apply , with the French , German , or Spanish languages , and should possess acquaintance with the resources of the United States . The collection of objects of art contemplated in section 5586 of the Revised Statutes should be designated and established as a National Gallery of Art and the Smithsonian Institution should be authorized to accept any additions to said collection that may be received by gift , bequest , or devise . It is desirable to enact a proper National quarantine law . It is most undesirable that a State should on its own initiative enforce quarantine regulations which are in effect a restriction upon interstate and international commerce . The question should properly be assumed by the Government alone . The Surgeon General of the National Public Health and Marine Hospital Service has repeatedly and convincingly set forth the need for such legislation . I call your attention to the great extravagance in printing and binding Government publications , and especially to the fact that altogether too many of these publications are printed . There is a constant tendency to increase their number and their volume . It is an understatement to say that no appreciable harm would be caused by , and substantial benefit would accrue from , decreasing the amount of printing now done by at least one half . Probably the great majority of the Government reports and the like now printed are never read at all , and furthermore the printing of much of the material contained in many of the remaining ones serves no useful purpose whatever . The attention of the Congress should be especially given to the currency question , and that the standing committees on the matter in the two Houses charged with the duty , take up the matter of our currency and see whether it is not possible to secure an agreement in the business world for bettering the system the committees should consider the question of the retirement of the greenbacks and the problem of securing in our currency such elasticity as is consistent with safety . Every silver dollar should be made by law redeemable in gold at the option of the holder . I especially commend to your immediate attention the encouragement of our merchant marine by appropriate legislation . The growing importance of the Orient as a field for American exports drew from my predecessor , President McKinley , an urgent request for its special consideration by the Congress . In his message of 1898 he stated In this relation , as showing the peculiar volume and value of our trade with China and the peculiarly favorable conditions which exist for their expansion in the normal course of trade , I refer to the communication addressed to the Speaker of the House of Representatives by the Secretary of the Treasury on the 14th of last June , with its accompanying letter of the Secretary of State , recommending an appropriation for a commission to study the industrial and commercial conditions in the Chinese Empire and to report as to the opportunities for and the obstacles to the enlargement of markets in China for the raw products and manufactures of the United States . Action was not taken thereon during the last session . I cordially urge that the recommendation receive at your hands the consideration which its importance and timeliness merit . In his annual message of 1889 he again called attention to this recommendation , quoting it , and stated further I now renew this recommendation , as the importance of the subject has steadily grown since it was first submitted to you , and no time should be lost in studying for ourselves the resources of this great field for American trade and enterprise . The importance of securing proper information and data with a view to the enlargement of our trade with Asia is undiminished . Our consular representatives in China have strongly urged a place for permanent display of American products in some prominent trade center of that Empire , under Government control and management , as an effective means of advancing our export trade therein . I call the attention of the Congress to the desirability of carrying out these suggestions . In dealing with the questions of immigration and naturalization it is indispensable to keep certain facts ever before the minds of those who share in enacting the laws . First and foremost , let us remember that the question of being a good American has nothing whatever to do with a man s birthplace any more than it has to do with his creed . In every generation from the time this Government was founded men of foreign birth have stood in the very foremost rank of good citizenship , and that not merely in one but in every field of American activity while to try to draw a distinction between the man whose parents came to this country and the man whose ancestors came to it several generations back is a mere absurdity . Good Americanism is a matter of heart , of conscience , of lofty aspiration , of sound common sense , but not of birthplace or of creed . The medal of honor , the highest prize to be won by those who serve in the Army and the Navy of the United States decorates men born here , and it also decorates men born in Great Britain and Ireland , in Germany , in Scandinavia , in France , and doubtless in other countries also . In the field of statesmanship , in the field of business , in the field of philanthropic endeavor , it is equally true that among the men of whom we are most proud as Americans no distinction whatever can be drawn between those who themselves or whose parents came over in sailing ship or steamer from across the water and those whose ancestors stepped ashore into the wooded wilderness at Plymouth or at the mouth of the Hudson , the Delaware , or the James nearly three centuries ago . No fellow citizen of ours is entitled to any peculiar regard because of the way in which he worships his Maker , or because of the birthplace of himself or his parents , nor should he be in any way discriminated against therefor . Each must stand on his worth as a man and each is entitled to be judged solely thereby . There is no danger of having too many immigrants of the right kind . It makes no difference from what country they come . If they are sound in body and in mind , and , above all , if they are of good character , so that we can rest assured that their children and grandchildren will be worthy fellow citizens of our children and grandchildren , then we should welcome them with cordial hospitality . But the citizenship of this country should not be debased . It is vital that we should keep high the standard of well being among our wage workers , and therefore we should not admit masses of men whose standards of living and whose personal customs and habits are such that they tend to lower the level of the American wage worker and above all we should not admit any man of an unworthy type , any man concerning whom we can say that he will himself be a bad citizen , or that his children and grandchildren will detract from instead of adding to the sum of the good citizenship of the country . Similarly we should take the greatest care about naturalization . Fraudulent naturalization , the naturalization of improper persons , is a curse to our Government and it is the affair of every honest voter , wherever born , to see that no fraudulent voting is allowed , that no fraud in connection with naturalization is permitted . In the past year the cases of false , fraudulent , and improper naturalization of aliens coming to the attention of the executive branches of the Government have increased to an alarming degree . Extensive sales of forged certificates of naturalization have been discovered , as well as many cases of naturalization secured by perjury and fraud and in addition , instances have accumulated showing that many courts issue certificates of naturalization carelessly and upon insufficient evidence . Under the Constitution it is in the power of the Congress to establish a uniform rule of naturalization , and numerous laws have from time to time been enacted for that purpose , which have been supplemented in a few States by State laws having special application . The Federal statutes permit naturalization by any court of record in the United States having common law jurisdiction and a seal and clerk , except the police court of the District of Columbia , and nearly all these courts exercise this important function . It results that where so many courts of such varying grades have jurisdiction , there is lack of uniformity in the rules applied in conferring naturalization . Some courts are strict and others lax . An alien who may secure naturalization in one place might be denied it in another , and the intent of the constitutional provision is in fact defeated . Furthermore , the certificates of naturalization issued by the courts differ widely in wording and appearance , and when they are brought into use in foreign countries , are frequently subject to suspicion . There should be a comprehensive revision of the naturalization laws . The courts having power to naturalize should be definitely named by national authority the testimony upon which naturalization may be conferred should be definitely prescribed publication of impending naturalization applications should be required in advance of their hearing in court the form and wording of all certificates issued should be uniform throughout the country , and the courts should be required to make returns to the Secretary of State at stated periods of all naturalizations conferred . Not only are the laws relating to naturalization now defective , but those relating to citizenship of the United States ought also to be made the subject of scientific inquiry with a view to probable further legislation . By what acts expatriation may be assumed to have been accomplished , how long an American citizen may reside abroad and receive the protection of our passport , whether any degree of protection should be extended to one who has made the declaration of intention to become a citizen of the United States but has not secured naturalization , are questions of serious import , involving personal rights and often producing friction between this Government and foreign governments . Yet upon these question our laws are silent . I recommend that an examination be made into the subjects of citizenship , expatriation , and protection of Americans abroad , with a view to appropriate legislation . The power of the Government to protect the integrity of the elections of its own officials is inherent and has been recognized and affirmed by repeated declarations of the Supreme Court . There is no enemy of free government more dangerous and none so insidious as the corruption of the electorate . No one defends or excuses corruption , and it would seem to follow that none would oppose vigorous measures to eradicate it . I recommend the enactment of a law directed against bribery and corruption in Federal elections . The details of such a law may be safely left to the wise discretion of the Congress , but it should go as far as under the Constitution it is possible to go , and should include severe penalties against him who gives or receives a bribe intended to influence his act or opinion as an elector and provisions for the publication not only of the expenditures for nominations and elections of all candidates but also of all contributions received and expenditures made by political committees . No subject is better worthy the attention of the Congress than that portion of the report of the Attorney General dealing with the long delays and the great obstruction to justice experienced in the cases of Beavers , Green and Gaynor , and Benson . Were these isolated and special cases , I should not call your attention to them but the difficulties encountered as regards these men who have been indicted for criminal practices are not exceptional they are precisely similar in kind to what occurs again and again in the case of criminals who have sufficient means to enable them to take advantage of a system of procedure which has grown up in the Federal courts and which amounts in effect to making the law easy of enforcement against the man who has no money , and difficult of enforcement , even to the point of sometimes securing immunity , as regards the man who has money . In criminal cases the writ of the United States should run throughout its borders . The wheels of justice should not be clogged , as they have been clogged in the cases above mentioned , where it has proved absolutely impossible to bring the accused to the place appointed by the Constitution for his trial . Of recent years there has been grave and increasing complaint of the difficulty of bringing to justice those criminals whose criminality , instead of being against one person in the Republic , is against all persons in the Republic , because it is against the Republic itself . Under any circumstance and from the very nature of the case it is often exceedingly difficult to secure proper punishment of those who have been guilty of wrongdoing against the Government . By the time the offender can be brought into court the popular wrath against him has generally subsided and there is in most instances very slight danger indeed of any prejudice existing in the minds of the jury against him . At present the interests of the innocent man are amply safeguarded but the interests of the Government , that is , the interests of honest administration , that is the interests of the people , are not recognized as they should be . No subject better warrants the attention of the Congress . Indeed , no subject better warrants the attention of the bench and the bar throughout the United States . Alaska , like all our Territorial acquisitions , has proved resourceful beyond the expectations of those who made the purchase . It has become the home of many hardy , industrious , and thrifty American citizens . Towns of a permanent character have been built . The extent of its wealth in minerals , timber , fisheries , and agriculture , while great , is probably not comprehended yet in any just measure by our people . We do know , however , that from a very small beginning its products have grown until they are a steady and material contribution to the wealth of the nation . Owing to the immensity of Alaska and its location in the far north , it is a difficult matter to provide many things essential to its growth and to the happiness and comfort of its people by private enterprise alone . It should , therefore , receive reasonable aid from the Government . The Government has already done excellent work for Alaska in laying cables and building telegraph lines . This work has been done in the most economical and efficient way by the Signal Corps of the Army . In some respects it has outgrown its present laws , while in others those laws have been found to be inadequate . In order to obtain information upon which I could rely I caused an official of the Department of Justice , in whose judgment I have confidence , to visit Alaska during the past summer for the purpose of ascertaining how government is administered there and what legislation is actually needed at present . A statement of the conditions found to exist , together with some recommendations and the reasons therefor , in which I strongly concur , will be found in the annual report of the Attorney General . In some instances I feel that the legislation suggested is so imperatively needed that I am moved briefly to emphasize the Attorney General s proposals . Under the Code of Alaska as it now stands many purely administrative powers and duties , including by far the most important , devolve upon the district judges or upon the clerks of the district court acting under the direction of the judges , while the governor , upon whom these powers and duties should logically fall , has nothing specific to do except to make annual reports , issue Thanksgiving Day proclamations , and appoint Indian policemen and notaries public . I believe it essential to good government in Alaska , and therefore recommend , that the Congress divest the district judges and the clerks of their courts of the administrative or executive functions that they now exercise and cast them upon the governor . This would not be an innovation it would simply conform the government of Alaska to fundamental principles , making the governorship a real instead of a merely nominal office , and leaving the judges free to give their entire attention to their judicial duties and at the same time removing them from a great deal of the strife that now embarrasses the judicial office in Alaska . I also recommend that the salaries of the district judges and district attorneys in Alaska be increased so as to make them equal to those received by corresponding officers in the United States after deducting the difference in the cost of living that the district attorneys should be prohibited from engaging in private practice that United States commissioners be appointed by the governor of the Territory instead of by the district judges , and that a fixed salary be provided for them to take the place of the discredited fee system , which should be abolished in all offices that a mounted constabulary be created to police the territory outside the limits of incorporated towns a vast section now wholly without police protection and that some provision be made to at least lessen the oppressive delays and costs that now attend the prosecution of appeals from the district court of Alaska . There should be a division of the existing judicial districts , and an increase in the number of judges . Alaska should have a Delegate in the Congress . Where possible , the Congress should aid in the construction of needed wagon roads . Additional light houses should be provided . In my judgment , it is especially important to aid in such manner as seems just and feasible in the construction of a trunk line of railway to connect the Gulf of Alaska with the Yukon River through American territory . This would be most beneficial to the development of the resources of the Territory , and to the comfort and welfare of its people . Salmon hatcheries should be established in many different streams , so as to secure the preservation of this valuable food fish . Salmon fisheries and canneries should be prohibited on certain of the rivers where the mass of those Indians dwell who live almost exclusively on fish . The Alaskan natives are kindly , intelligent , anxious to learn , and willing to work . Those who have come under the influence of civilization , even for a limited period , have proved their capability of becoming self supporting , self respecting citizens , and ask only for the just enforcement of law and intelligent instruction and supervision . Others , living in more remote regions , primitive , simple hunters and fisher folk , who know only the life of the woods and the waters , are daily being confronted with twentieth century civilization with all of its complexities . Their country is being overrun by strangers , the game slaughtered and driven away , the streams depleted of fish , and hitherto unknown and fatal diseases brought to them , all of which combine to produce a state of abject poverty and want which must result in their extinction . Action in their interest is demanded by every consideration of justice and humanity . The needs of these people are The abolition of the present fee system , whereby the native is degraded , imposed upon , and taught the injustice of law . The establishment of hospitals at central points , so that contagious diseases that are brought to them continually by incoming whites may be localized and not allowed to become epidemic , to spread death and destitution over great areas . The development of the educational system in the form of practical training in such industries as will assure the Indians self support under the changed conditions in which they will have to live . The duties of the office of the governor should be extended to include the supervision of Indian affairs , with necessary assistants in different districts . He should be provided with the means and the power to protect and advise the native people , to furnish medical treatment in time of epidemics , and to extend material relief in periods of famine and extreme destitution . The Alaskan natives should be given the right to acquire , hold , and dispose of property upon the same conditions as given other inhabitants and the privilege of citizenship should be given to such as may be able to meet certain definite requirements . In Hawaii Congress should give the governor power to remove all the officials appointed under him . The harbor of Honolulu should be dredged . The Marine Hospital Service should be empowered to study leprosy in the islands . I ask special consideration for the report and recommendation of the governor of Porto Rico . In treating of our foreign policy and of the attitude that this great Nation should assume in the world at large , it is absolutely necessary to consider the Army and the Navy , and the Congress , through which the thought of the Nation finds its expression , should keep ever vividly in mind the fundamental fact that it is impossible to treat our foreign policy , whether this policy takes shape in the effort to secure justice for others or justice for ourselves , save as conditioned upon the attitude we are willing to take toward our Army , and especially toward our Navy . It is not merely unwise , it is contemptible , for a nation , as for an individual , to use high sounding language to proclaim its purposes , or to take positions which are ridiculous if unsupported by potential force , and then to refuse to provide this force . If there is no intention of providing and of keeping the force necessary to back up a strong attitude , then it is far better not to assume such an attitude . The steady aim of this Nation , as of all enlightened nations , should be to strive to bring ever nearer the day when there shall prevail throughout the world the peace of justice . There are kinds of peace which are highly undesirable , which are in the long run as destructive as any war . Tyrants and oppressors have many times made a wilderness and called it peace . Many times peoples who were slothful or timid or shortsighted , who had been enervated by ease or by luxury , or misled by false teachings , have shrunk in unmanly fashion from doing duty that was stern and that needed self sacrifice , and have sought to hide from their own minds their shortcomings , their ignoble motives , by calling them love of peace . The peace of tyrannous terror , the peace of craven weakness , the peace of injustice , all these should be shunned as we shun unrighteous war . The goal to set before us as a nation , the goal which should be set before all mankind , is the attainment of the peace of justice , of the peace which comes when each nation is not merely safe guarded in its own rights , but scrupulously recognizes and performs its duty toward others . Generally peace tells for righteousness but if there is conflict between the two , then our fealty is due first to the cause of righteousness . Unrighteous wars are common , and unrighteous peace is rare but both should be shunned . The right of freedom and the responsibility for the exercise of that right can not be divorced . One of our great poets has well and finely said that freedom is not a gift that tarries long in the hands of cowards . Neither does it tarry long in the hands of those too slothful , too dishonest , or too unintelligent to exercise it . The eternal vigilance which is the price of liberty must be exercised , sometimes to guard against outside foes although of course far more often to guard against our own selfish or thoughtless shortcomings . If these self evident truths are kept before us , and only if they are so kept before us , we shall have a clear idea of what our foreign policy in its larger aspects should be . It is our duty to remember that a nation has no more right to do injustice to another nation , strong or weak , than an individual has to do injustice to another individual that the same moral law applies in one case as in the other . But we must also remember that it is as much the duty of the Nation to guard its own rights and its own interests as it is the duty of the individual so to do . Within the Nation the individual has now delegated this right to the State , that is , to the representative of all the individuals , and it is a maxim of the law that for every wrong there is a remedy . But in international law we have not advanced by any means as far as we have advanced in municipal law . There is as yet no judicial way of enforcing a right in international law . When one nation wrongs another or wrongs many others , there is no tribunal before which the wrongdoer can be brought . Either it is necessary supinely to acquiesce in the wrong , and thus put a premium upon brutality and aggression , or else it is necessary for the aggrieved nation valiantly to stand up for its rights . Until some method is devised by which there shall be a degree of international control over offending nations , it would be a wicked thing for the most civilized powers , for those with most sense of international obligations and with keenest and most generous appreciation of the difference between right and wrong , to disarm . If the great civilized nations of the present day should completely disarm , the result would mean an immediate recrudescence of barbarism in one form or another . Under any circumstances a sufficient armament would have to be kept up to serve the purposes of international police and until international cohesion and the sense of international duties and rights are far more advanced than at present , a nation desirous both of securing respect for itself and of doing good to others must have a force adequate for the work which it feels is allotted to it as its part of the general world duty . Therefore it follows that a self respecting , just , and far seeing nation should on the one hand endeavor by every means to aid in the development of the various movements which tend to provide substitutes for war , which tend to render nations in their actions toward one another , and indeed toward their own peoples , more responsive to the general sentiment of humane and civilized mankind and on the other hand that it should keep prepared , while scrupulously avoiding wrongdoing itself , to repel any wrong , and in exceptional cases to take action which in a more advanced stage of international relations would come under the head of the exercise of the international police . A great free people owes it to itself and to all mankind not to sink into helplessness before the powers of evil . We are in every way endeavoring to help on , with cordial good will , every movement which will tend to bring us into more friendly relations with the rest of mankind . In pursuance of this policy I shall shortly lay before the Senate treaties of arbitration with all powers which are willing to enter into these treaties with us . It is not possible at this period of the world s development to agree to arbitrate all matters , but there are many matters of possible difference between us and other nations which can be thus arbitrated . Furthermore , at the request of the Interparliamentary Union , an eminent body composed of practical statesmen from all countries , I have asked the Powers to join with this Government in a second Hague conference , at which it is hoped that the work already so happily begun at The Hague may be carried some steps further toward completion . This carries out the desire expressed by the first Hague conference itself . It is not true that the United States feels any land hunger or entertains any projects as regards the other nations of the Western Hemisphere save such as are for their welfare . All that this country desires is to see the neighboring countries stable , orderly , and prosperous . Any country whose people conduct themselves well can count upon our hearty friendship . If a nation shows that it knows how to act with reasonable efficiency and decency in social and political matters , if it keeps order and pays its obligations , it need fear no interference from the United States . Chronic wrongdoing , or an impotence which results in a general loosening of the ties of civilized society , may in America , as elsewhere , ultimately require intervention by some civilized nation , and in the Western Hemisphere the adherence of the United States to the Monroe Doctrine may force the United States , however reluctantly , in flagrant cases of such wrongdoing or impotence , to the exercise of an international police power . If every country washed by the Caribbean Sea would show the progress in stable and just civilization which with the aid of the Platt amendment Cuba has shown since our troops left the island , and which so many of the republics in both Americas are constantly and brilliantly showing , all question of interference by this Nation with their affairs would be at an end . Our interests and those of our southern neighbors are in reality identical . They have great natural riches , and if within their borders the reign of law and justice obtains , prosperity is sure to come to them . While they thus obey the primary laws of civilized society they may rest assured that they will be treated by us in a spirit of cordial and helpful sympathy . We would interfere with them only in the last resort , and then only if it became evident that their inability or unwillingness to do justice at home and abroad had violated the rights of the United States or had invited foreign aggression to the detriment of the entire body of American nations . It is a mere truism to say that every nation , whether in America or anywhere else , which desires to maintain its freedom , its independence , must ultimately realize that the right of such independence can not be separated from the responsibility of making good use of it . In asserting the Monroe Doctrine , in taking such steps as we have taken in regard to Cuba , Venezuela , and Panama , and in endeavoring to circumscribe the theater of war in the Far East , and to secure the open door in China , we have acted in our own interest as well as in the interest of humanity at large . There are , however , cases in which , while our own interests are not greatly involved , strong appeal is made to our sympathies . Ordinarily it is very much wiser and more useful for us to concern ourselves with striving for our own moral and material betterment here at home than to concern ourselves with trying to better the condition of things in other nations . We have plenty of sins of our own to war against , and under ordinary circumstances we can do more for the general uplifting of humanity by striving with heart and soul to put a stop to civic corruption , to brutal lawlessness and violent race prejudices here at home than by passing resolutions about wrongdoing elsewhere . Nevertheless there are occasional crimes committed on so vast a scale and of such peculiar horror as to make us doubt whether it is not our manifest duty to endeavor at least to show our disapproval of the deed and our sympathy with those who have suffered by it . The cases must be extreme in which such a course is justifiable . There must be no effort made to remove the mote from our brother s eye if we refuse to remove the beam from our own . But in extreme cases action may be justifiable and proper . What form the action shall take must depend upon the circumstances of the case that is , upon the degree of the atrocity and upon our power to remedy it . The cases in which we could interfere by force of arms as we interfered to put a stop to intolerable conditions in Cuba are necessarily very few . Yet it is not to be expected that a people like ours , which in spite of certain very obvious shortcomings , nevertheless as a whole shows by its consistent practice its belief in the principles of civil and religious liberty and of orderly freedom , a people among whom even the worst crime , like the crime of lynching , is never more than sporadic , so that individuals and not classes are molested in their fundamental rights it is inevitable that such a nation should desire eagerly to give expression to its horror on an occasion like that of the massacre of the Jews in Kishenef , or when it witnesses such systematic and long extended cruelty and oppression as the cruelty and oppression of which the Armenians have been the victims , and which have won for them the indignant pity of the civilized world . Even where it is not possible to secure in other nations the observance of the principles which we accept as axiomatic , it is necessary for us firmly to insist upon the rights of our own citizens without regard to their creed or race without regard to whether they were born here or born abroad . It has proved very difficult to secure from Russia the right for our Jewish fellow citizens to receive passports and travel through Russian territory . Such conduct is not only unjust and irritating toward us , but it is difficult to see its wisdom from Russia s standpoint . No conceivable good is accomplished by it . If an American Jew or an American Christian misbehaves himself in Russia he can at once be driven out but the ordinary American Jew , like the ordinary American Christian , would behave just about as he behaves here , that is , behave as any good citizen ought to behave and where this is the case it is a wrong against which we are entitled to protest to refuse him his passport without regard to his conduct and character , merely on racial and religious grounds . In Turkey our difficulties arise less from the way in which our citizens are sometimes treated than from the indignation inevitably excited in seeing such fearful misrule as has been witnessed both in Armenia and Macedonia . The strong arm of the Government in enforcing respect for its just rights in international matters is the Navy of the United States . I most earnestly recommend that there be no halt in the work of upbuilding the American Navy . There is no more patriotic duty before us a people than to keep the Navy adequate to the needs of this country s position . We have undertaken to build the Isthmian Canal . We have undertaken to secure for ourselves our just share in the trade of the Orient . We have undertaken to protect our citizens from proper treatment in foreign lands . We continue steadily to insist on the application of the Monroe Doctrine to the Western Hemisphere . Unless our attitude in these and all similar matters is to be a mere boastful sham we can not afford to abandon our naval programme . Our voice is now potent for peace , and is so potent because we are not afraid of war . But our protestations upon behalf of peace would neither receive nor deserve the slightest attention if we were impotent to make them good . The war which now unfortunately rages in the far East has emphasized in striking fashion the new possibilities of naval warfare . The lessons taught are both strategic and tactical , and are political as well as military . The experiences of the war have shown in conclusive fashion that while sea going and sea keeping torpedo destroyers are indispensable , and fast lightly armed and armored cruisers very useful , yet that the main reliance , the main standby , in any navy worthy the name must be the great battle ships , heavily armored and heavily gunned . Not a Russian or Japanese battle ship has been sunk by a torpedo boat , or by gunfire , while among the less protected ships , cruiser after cruiser has been destroyed whenever the hostile squadrons have gotten within range of one another s weapons . There will always be a large field of usefulness for cruisers , especially of the more formidable type . We need to increase the number of torpedo boat destroyers , paying less heed to their having a knot or two extra speed than to their capacity to keep the seas for weeks , and , if necessary , for months at a time . It is wise to build submarine torpedo boats , as under certain circumstances they might be very useful . But most of all we need to continue building our fleet of battle ships , or ships so powerfully armed that they can inflict the maximum of damage upon our opponents , and so well protected that they can suffer a severe hammering in return without fatal impairment of their ability to fight and maneuver . Of course ample means must be provided for enabling the personnel of the Navy to be brought to the highest point of efficiency . Our great fighting ships and torpedo boats must be ceaselessly trained and maneuvered in squadrons . The officers and men can only learn their trade thoroughly by ceaseless practice on the high seas . In the event of war it would be far better to have no ships at all than to have ships of a poor and ineffective type , or ships which , however good , were yet manned by untrained and unskillful crews . The best officers and men in a poor ship could do nothing against fairly good opponents and on the other hand a modern war ship is useless unless the officers and men aboard her have become adepts in their duties . The marksmanship in our Navy has improved in an extraordinary degree during the last three years , and on the whole the types of our battleships are improving but much remains to be done . Sooner or later we shall have to provide for some method by which there will be promotions for merit as well as for seniority , or else retirement all those who after a certain age have not advanced beyond a certain grade while no effort must be spared to make the service attractive to the enlisted men in order that they may be kept as long as possible in it . Reservation public schools should be provided wherever there are navy yards . Within the last three years the United States has set an example in disarmament where disarmament was proper . By law our Army is fixed at a maximum of one hundred thousand and a minimum of sixty thousand men . When there was insurrection in the Philippines we kept the Army at the maximum . Peace came in the Philippines , and now our Army has been reduced to the minimum at which . it is possible to keep it with due regard to its efficiency . The guns now mounted require twenty eight thousand men , if the coast fortifications are to be adequately manned . Relatively to the Nation , it is not now so large as the police force of New York or Chicago relatively to the population of either city . We need more officers there are not enough to perform the regular army work . It is very important that the officers of the Army should be accustomed to handle their men in masses , as it is also important that the National Guard of the several States should be accustomed to actual field maneuvering , especially in connection with the regulars . For this reason we are to be congratulated upon the success of the field maneuvers at Manassas last fall , maneuvers in which a larger number of Regulars and National Guard took part than was ever before assembled together in time of peace . No other civilized nation has , relatively to its population , such a diminutive Army as ours and while the Army is so small we are not to be excused if we fail to keep it at a very high grade of proficiency . It must be incessantly practiced the standard for the enlisted men should be kept very high , while at the same time the service should be made as attractive as possible and the standard for the officers should be kept even higher which , as regards the upper ranks , can best be done by introducing some system of selection and rejection into the promotions . We should be able , in the event of some sudden emergency , to put into the field one first class army corps , which should be , as a whole , at least the equal of any body of troops of like number belonging to any other nation . Great progress has been made in protecting our coasts by adequate fortifications with sufficient guns . We should , however , pay much more heed than at present to the development of an extensive system of floating mines for use in all our more important harbors . These mines have been proved to be a most formidable safeguard against hostile fleets . I earnestly call the attention of the Congress to the need of amending the existing law relating to the award of Congressional medals of honor in the Navy so as to provide that they may be awarded to commissioned officers and warrant officers as well as to enlisted men . These justly prized medals are given in the Army alike to the officers and the enlisted men , and it is most unjust that the commissioned officers and warrant officers of the Navy should not in this respect have the same rights as their brethren in the Army and as the enlisted men of the Navy . In the Philippine Islands there has been during the past year a continuation of the steady progress which has obtained ever since our troops definitely got the upper hand of the insurgents . The Philippine people , or , to speak more accurately , the many tribes , and even races , sundered from one another more or less sharply , who go to make up the people of the Philippine Islands , contain many elements of good , and some elements which we have a right to hope stand for progress . At present they are utterly incapable of existing in independence at all or of building up a civilization of their own . I firmly believe that we can help them to rise higher and higher in the scale of civilization and of capacity for self government , and I most earnestly hope that in the end they will be able to stand , if not entirely alone , yet in some such relation to the United States as Cuba now stands . This end is not yet in sight , and it may be indefinitely postponed if our people are foolish enough to turn the attention of the Filipinos away from the problems of achieving moral and material prosperity , of working for a stable , orderly , and just government , and toward foolish and dangerous intrigues for a complete independence for which they are as yet totally unfit . On the other hand our people must keep steadily before their minds the fact that the justification for our stay in the Philippines must ultimately rest chiefly upon the good we are able to do in the islands . I do not overlook the fact that in the development of our interests in the Pacific Ocean and along its coasts , the Philippines have played and will play an important part and that our interests have been served in more than one way by the possession of the islands . But our chief reason for continuing to hold them must be that we ought in good faith to try to do our share of the world s work , and this particular piece of work has been imposed upon us by the results of the war with Spain . The problem presented to us in the Philippine Islands is akin to , but not exactly like , the problems presented to the other great civilized powers which have possessions in the Orient . There are points of resemblance in our work to the work which is being done by the British in India and Egypt , by the French in Algiers , by the Dutch in Java , by the Russians in Turkestan , by the Japanese in Formosa but more distinctly than any of these powers we are endeavoring to develop the natives themselves so that they shall take an ever increasing share in their own government , and as far as is prudent we are already admitting their representatives to a governmental equality with our own . There are commissioners , judges , and governors in the islands who are Filipinos and who have exactly the same share in the government of the islands as have their colleagues who are Americans , while in the lower ranks , of course , the great majority of the public servants are Filipinos . Within two years we shall be trying the experiment of an elective lower house in the Philippine legislature . It may be that the Filipinos will misuse this legislature , and they certainly will misuse it if they are misled by foolish persons here at home into starting an agitation for their own independence or into any factious or improper action . In such case they will do themselves no good and will stop for the time being all further effort to advance them and give them a greater share in their own government . But if they act with wisdom and self restraint , if they show that they are capable of electing a legislature which in its turn is capable of taking a sane and efficient part in the actual work of government , they can rest assured that a full and increasing measure of recognition will be given them . Above all they should remember that their prime needs are moral and industrial , not political . It is a good thing to try the experiment of giving them a legislature but it is a far better thing to give them schools , good roads , railroads which will enable them to get their products to market , honest courts , an honest and efficient constabulary , and all that tends to produce order , peace , fair dealing as between man and man , and habits of intelligent industry and thrift . If they are safeguarded against oppression , and if their real wants , material and spiritual , are studied intelligently and in a spirit of friendly sympathy , much more good will be done them than by any effort to give them political power , though this effort may in its own proper time and place be proper enough . Meanwhile our own people should remember that there is need for the highest standard of conduct among the Americans sent to the Philippine Islands , not only among the public servants but among the private individuals who go to them . It is because I feel this so deeply that in the administration of these islands I have positively refused to permit any discrimination whatsoever for political reasons and have insisted that in choosing the public servants consideration should be paid solely to the worth of the men chosen and to the needs of the islands . There is no higher body of men in our public service than we have in the Philippine Islands under Governor Wright and his associates . So far as possible these men should be given a free hand , and their suggestions should receive the hearty backing both of the Executive and of the Congress . There is need of a vigilant and disinterested support of our public servants in the Philippines by good citizens here in the United States . Unfortunately hitherto those of our people here at home who have specially claimed to be the champions of the Filipinos have in reality been their worst enemies . This will continue to be the case as long as they strive to make the Filipinos independent , and stop all industrial development of the islands by crying out against the laws which would bring it on the ground that capitalists must not exploit the islands . Such proceedings are not only unwise , but are most harmful to the Filipinos , who do not need independence at all , but who do need good laws , good public servants , and the industrial development that can only come if the investment , of American and foreign capital in the islands is favored in all legitimate ways . Every measure taken concerning the islands should be taken primarily with a view to their advantage . We should certainly give them lower tariff rates on their exports to the United States if this is not done it will be a wrong to extend our shipping laws to them . I earnestly hope for the immediate enactment into law of the legislation now pending to encourage American capital to seek investment in the islands in railroads , in factories , in plantations , and in lumbering and mining .<speech_sep>By the President of the United States of America A Proclamation Whereas , by the resolution of the Senate of March 19 , 1903 , the approval by Congress of the reciprocal Commercial Convention between the United States and the Republic of Cuba , signed at Havana on December 11 , 1902 , is necessary before the said Convention shall take effect And Whereas , it is important to the public interests of the United States that the said Convention shall become operative as early as may be Now , Therefore , Theodore Roosevelt , President of the United States of America , by virtue of the power vested in me by the Constitution , do hereby proclaim and declare that an extraordinary occasion requires the convening of both Houses of the Congress of the United States at their respective Chambers in the city of Washington on the 9th day of November next , at 12 of the clock noon , to the end that they may consider and determine whether the approval of the Congress shall be given to the said Convention . All persons entitled to act as members of the 58th Congress are required to take notice of this proclamation . Given under my hand and the Seal of the United States at Washington the 20th day of October in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and three and of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and twenty eighth . THEODORE ROOSEVELT By the President JOHN HAY , Secretary of State .<speech_sep>To the Senate and House of Representatives No nation has greater resources than ours , and I think it can be truthfully said that the citizens of no nation possess greater energy and industrial ability . In no nation are the fundamental business conditions sounder than in ours at this very moment and it is foolish , when such is the case , for people to hoard money instead of keeping it in sound banks for it is such hoarding that is the immediate occasion of money stringency . Moreover , as a rule , the business of our people is conducted with honesty and probity , and this applies alike to farms and factories , to railroads and banks , to all our legitimate commercial enterprises . In any large body of men , however , there are certain to be some who are dishonest , and if the conditions are such that these men prosper or commit their misdeeds with impunity , their example is a very evil thing for the community . Where these men are business men of great sagacity and of temperament both unscrupulous and reckless , and where the conditions are such that they act without supervision or control and at first without effective check from public opinion , they delude many innocent people into making investments or embarking in kinds of business that are really unsound . When the misdeeds of these successfully dishonest men are discovered , suffering comes not only upon them , but upon the innocent men whom they have misled . It is a painful awakening , whenever it occurs and , naturally , when it does occur those who suffer are apt to forget that the longer it was deferred the more painful it would be . In the effort to punish the guilty it is both wise and proper to endeavor so far as possible to minimize the distress of those who have been misled by the guilty . Yet it is not possible to refrain because of such distress from striving to put an end to the misdeeds that are the ultimate causes of the suffering , and , as a means to this end , where possible to punish those responsible for them . There may be honest differences of opinion as to many governmental policies but surely there can be no such differences as to the need of unflinching perseverance in the war against successful dishonesty . In my Message to the Congress on December 5 , 1905 , I said If the folly of man mars the general well being , then those who are innocent of the folly will have to pay part of the penalty incurred by those who are guilty of the folly . A panic brought on by the speculative folly of part of the business community would hurt the whole business community but such stoppage of welfare , though it might be severe , would not be lasting . In the long run , the one vital factor in the permanent prosperity of the country is the high individual character of the average American worker , the average American citizen , no matter whether his work be mental or manual , whether he be farmer or wage worker , business man or professional man . In our industrial and social system the interests of all men are so closely intertwined that in the immense majority of cases a straight dealing man , who by his efficiency , by his ingenuity and industry , benefits himself , must also benefit others . Normally , the man of great productive capacity who becomes rich by guiding the labor of many other men does so by enabling them to produce more than they could produce without his guidance and both he and they share in the benefit , which comes also to the public at large . The superficial fact that the sharing may be unequal must never blind us to the underlying fact that there is this sharing , and that the benefit comes in some degree to each man concerned . . Normally , the wageworker , the man of small means , and the average consumer , as well as the average producer , are all alike helped by making conditions such that the man of exceptional business ability receives an exceptional reward for his ability Something can be done by legislation to help the general prosperity but no such help of a permanently beneficial character can be given to the less able and less fortunate save as the results of a policy which shall inure to the advantage of all industrious and efficient people who act decently and this is only another way of saying that any benefit which comes to the less able and less fortunate must of necessity come even more to the more able and more fortunate . If , therefore , the less fortunate man is moved by envy of his more fortunate brother to strike at the conditions under which they have both , though unequally , prospered , the result will assuredly be that while damage may come to the one struck at , it will visit with an even heavier load the one who strikes the blow . Taken as a whole , we must all go up or go down together . Yet , while not merely admitting , but insisting upon this , it is also true that where there is no governmental restraint or supervision some of the exceptional men use their energies , not in ways that are for the common good , but in ways which tell against this common good . The fortunes amassed through corporate organization are now so large , and vest such power in those that wield them , as to make it a matter of necessity to give to the sovereign that is , to the Government , which represents the people as a whole some effective power of supervision over their corporate use . In order to insure a healthy social and industrial life , every big corporation should be held responsible by , and be accountable to , some sovereign strong enough to control its conduct . I am in no sense hostile to corporations . This is an age of combination , and any effort to prevent all combination will be not only useless , but in the end vicious , because of the contempt for law which the failure to enforce law inevitably produces . We should , moreover , recognize in cordial and ample fashion the immense good effected by corporate agencies in a country such as ours , and the wealth of intellect , energy , and fidelity devoted to their service , and therefore normally to the service of the public , by their officers and directors . The corporation has come to stay , just as the trade union has come to stay . Each can do and has done great good . Each should be favored so long as it does good . But each should be sharply checked where it acts against law and justice . The makers of our National Constitution provided especially that the regulation of interstate commerce should come within the sphere of the General Government . The arguments in favor of their taking this stand were even then overwhelming . But they are far stronger to day , in view of the enormous development of great business agencies , usually corporate in form . Experience has shown conclusively that it is useless to try to get any adequate regulation and supervision of these great corporations by State action . Such regulation and supervision can only be effectively exercised by a sovereign whose jurisdiction is coextensive with the field of work of the corporations that is , by the National Government . I believe that this regulation and supervision can be obtained by the enactment of law by the Congress . Our steady aim should be by legislation , cautiously and carefully undertaken , but resolutely persevered in , to assert the sovereignty of the National Government by affirmative action . This is only in form an innovation . In substance it is merely a restoration for from the earliest time such regulation of industrial activities has been recognized in the action of the lawmaking bodies and all that I propose is to meet the changed conditions in such manner as will prevent the Commonwealth abdicating the power it has always possessed , not only in this country , but also in England before and since this country became a separate nation . It has been a misfortune that the National laws on this subject have hitherto been of a negative or prohibitive rather than an affirmative kind , and still more that they have in part sought to prohibit what could not be effectively prohibited , and have in part in their prohibitions confounded what should be allowed and what should not be allowed . It is generally useless to try to prohibit all restraint on competition , whether this restraint be reasonable or unreasonable and where it is not useless it is generally hurtful . The successful prosecution of one device to evade the law immediately develops another device to accomplish the same purpose . What is needed is not sweeping prohibition of every arrangement , good or bad , which may tend to restrict competition , but such adequate supervision and regulation as will prevent any restriction of competition from being to the detriment of the public , as well as such supervision and regulation as will prevent other abuses in no way connected with restriction of competition . I have called your attention in these quotations to what I have already said because I am satisfied that it is the duty of the National Government to embody in action the principles thus expressed . No small part of the trouble that we have comes from carrying to an extreme the national virtue of self reliance , of independence in initiative and action . It is wise to conserve this virtue and to provide for its fullest exercise , compatible with seeing that liberty does not become a liberty to wrong others . Unfortunately , this is the kind of liberty that the lack of all effective regulation inevitably breeds . founders of the Constitution provided that the National Government should have complete and sole control of interstate commerce . There was then practically no interstate business save such as was conducted by water , and this the National Government at once proceeded to regulate in thoroughgoing and effective fashion . Conditions have now so wholly changed that the interstate commerce by water is insignificant compared with the amount that goes by land , and almost all big business concerns are now engaged in interstate commerce . As a result , it can be but partially and imperfectly controlled or regulated by the action of any one of the several States such action inevitably tending to be either too drastic or else too lax , and in either case ineffective for purposes of justice . Only the National Government can in thoroughgoing fashion exercise the needed control . This does not mean that there should be any extension of Federal authority , for such authority already exists under the Constitution in amplest and most far reaching form but it does mean that there should be an extension of Federal activity . This is not advocating centralization . It is merely looking facts in the face , and realizing that centralization in business has already come and can not be avoided or undone , and that the public at large can only protect itself from certain evil effects of this business centralization by providing better methods for the exercise of control through the authority already centralized in the National Government by the Constitution itself . There must be no ball in the healthy constructive course of action which this Nation has elected to pursue , and has steadily pursued , during the last six years , as shown both in the legislation of the Congress and the administration of the law by the Department of Justice . The most vital need is in connection with the railroads . As to these , in my judgment there should now be either a national incorporation act or a law licensing railway companies to engage in interstate commerce upon certain conditions . The law should be so framed as to give to the Interstate Commerce Commission power to pass upon the future issue of securities , while ample means should be provided to enable the Commission , whenever in its judgment it is necessary , to make a physical valuation of any railroad . As I stated in my Message to the Congress a year ago , railroads should be given power to enter into agreements , subject to these argreements being made public in minute detail and to the consent of the Interstate Commerce Commission being first obtained . Until the National Government assumes proper control of interstate commerce , in the exercise of the authority it already possesses , it will be impossible either to give to or to get from the railroads full justice . The railroads and all other great corporations will do well to recognize that this control must come the only question is as to what governmental body can most wisely exercise it . The courts will determine the limits within which the Federal authority can exercise it , and there will still remain ample work within each State for the railway commission of that State and the National Interstate Commerce Commission will work in harmony with the several State commissions , each within its own province , to achieve the desired end . Moreover , in my judgment there should be additional legislation looking to the proper control of the great business concerns engaged in interstate business , this control to be exercised for their own benefit and prosperity no less than for the protection of investors and of the general public . As I have repeatedly said in Messages to the Congress and elsewhere , experience has definitely shown not merely the unwisdom but the futility of endeavoring to put a stop to all business combinations . Modern industrial conditions are such that combination is not only necessary but inevitable . It is so in the world of business just as it is so in the world of labor , and it is as idle to desire to put an end to all corporations , to all big combinations of capital , as to desire to put an end to combinations of labor . Corporation and labor union alike have come to stay . Each if properly managed is a source of good and not evil . Whenever in either there is evil , it should be promptly held to account but it should receive hearty encouragement so long as it is properly managed . It is profoundly immoral to put or keep on the statute books a law , nominally in the interest of public morality that really puts a premium upon public immorality , by undertaking to forbid honest men from doing what must be done under modern business conditions , so that the law itself provides that its own infraction must be the condition precedent upon business success . To aim at the accomplishment of too much usually means the accomplishment of too little , and often the doing of positive damage . In my Message to the Congress a year ago , in speaking of the antitrust laws , I said The actual working of our laws has shown that the effort to prohibit all combination , good or bad , is noxious where it is not ineffective . Combination of capital , like combination of labor , is a necessary element in our present industrial system . It is not possible completely to prevent it and if it were possible , such complete prevention would do damage to the body politic . What we need is not vainly to try to prevent all combination , but to secure such rigorous and adequate control and supervision of the combinations as to prevent their injuring the public , or existing in such forms as inevitably to threaten injury . It is unfortunate that our present laws should forbid all combinations instead of sharply discriminating between those combinations which do evil . Often railroads would like to combine for the purpose of preventing a big shipper from maintaining improper advantages at the expense of small shippers and of the general public . Such a combination , instead of being forbidden by law , should be favored . It is a public evil to have on the statute books a law incapable of full enforcement , because both judges and juries realize that its full enforcement would destroy the business of the country for the result is to make decent men violators of the law against their will , and to put a premium on the behavior of the willful wrongdoers . Such a result in turn tends to throw the decent man and the willful wrongdoer into close association , and in the end to drag clown the former to the latter s level for the man who becomes a lawbreaker in one way unhappily tends to lose all respect for law and to be willing to break . it in many ways . No more scathing condemnation could be visited upon a law than is contained in the words of the Interstate Commerce Commission when , in commenting upon the fact that the numerous joint traffic associations do technically violate the law , they say The decision of the United States Supreme Court in the Trans Missouri case and the Joint Traffic Association case has produced no practical effect upon the railway operations of the country . Such associations , in fact , exist now as they did before these decisions , and with the same general effect . In justice to all parties , we ought probably to add that it is difficult to see how our interstate railways could be operated with due regard to the interest of the shipper and the railway without concerted action of the kind afforded through these asociations . This means that the law as construed by the Supreme Court is such that the business of the country can not be conducted without breaking it . As I have elsewhere said All this is substantially what I have said over and over again . Surely it ought not to be necessary to say that it in no shape or way represents any hostility to corporations as such . On the contrary , it means a frank recognition of the fact that combinations of capital , like combinations of labor , are a natural result of modern conditions and of our National development . As far as in my ability lies my endeavor is and will be to prevent abuse of power by either and to favor both so long as they do well . The aim of the National Government is quite as much to favor and protect honest corporations , honest business men of wealth , as to bring to justice those individuals and corporations representing dishonest methods . Most certainly there will be no relaxation by the Government authorities in the effort to get at any great railroad wrecker any man who by clever swindling devices robs investors , oppresses wage workers , and does injustice to the general public . But any such move as this is in the interest of honest railway operators , of honest corporations , and of those who , when they invest their small savings in stocks and bonds , wish to be assured that these will represent money honestly expended for legitimate business purposes . To confer upon the National Government the power for which I ask would be a check upon overcapitalization and upon the clever gamblers who benefit by overcapitalization . But it alone would mean an increase in the value , an increase in the safety of the stocks and bonds of law abiding , honestly managed railroads , and would render it far easier to market their securities . I believe in proper publicity . There has been complaint of some of the investigations recently carried on , but those who complain should put the blame where it belongs upon the misdeeds which are done in darkness and not upon the investigations which brought them to light . The Administration is responsible for turning on the light , but it is not responsible for what the light showed . I ask for full power to be given the Federal Government , because no single State can by legislation effectually cope with these powerful corporations engaged in interstate commerce , and , while doing them full justice , exact from them in return full justice to others . The conditions of railroad activity , the conditions of our immense interstate commerce , are such as to make the Central Government alone competent to exercise full supervision and control . The grave abuses in individual cases of railroad management in the past represent wrongs not merely to the general public , but , above all , wrongs to fair dealing and honest corporations and men of wealth , because they excite a popular anger and distrust which from the very nature of the case tends to include in the sweep of its resentment good and bad alike . From the standpoint of the public I can not too earnestly say that as soon as the natural and proper resentment aroused by these abuses becomes indiscriminate and unthinking , it also becomes not merely unwise and unfair , but calculated to defeat the very ends which those feeling it have in view . There has been plenty of dishonest work by corporations in the past . There will not be the slightest let up in the effort to hunt down and punish every dishonest man . But the bulk of our business is honestly done . In the natural indignation the people feel over the dishonesty , it is essential that they should not lose their heads and get drawn into an indiscriminate raid upon all corporations , all people of wealth , whether they do well or ill . Out of any such wild movement good will not come , can not come , and never has come . On the contrary , the surest way to invite reaction is to follow the lead of either demagogue or visionary in a sweeping assault upon property values and upon public confidence , which would work incalculable damage in the business world and would produce such distrust of the agitators that in the revulsion the distrust would extend to honest men who , in sincere and same fashion , are trying to remedy the evils . The antitrust law should not be repealed but it should be made both more efficient and more in harmony with actual conditions . It should be so amended as to forbid only the kind of combination which does harm to the general public , such amendment to be accompanied by , or to be an incident of , a grant of supervisory power to the Government over these big concerns engaged in interstate business . This should be accompanied by provision for the compulsory publication of accounts and the subjection of books and papers to the inspection of the Government officials . A beginning has already been made for such supervision by the establishment of the Bureau of Corporations . The antitrust law should not prohibit combinations that do no injustice to the public , still less those the existence of which is on the whole of benefit to the public . But even if this feature of the law were abolished , there would remain as an equally objectionable feature the difficulty and delay now incident to its enforcement . The Government must now submit to irksome and repeated delay before obtaining a final decision of the courts upon proceedings instituted , and even a favorable decree may mean an empty victory . Moreover , to attempt to control these corporations by lawsuits means to impose upon both the Department of Justice and the courts an impossible burden it is not feasible to carry on more than a limited number of such suits . Such a law to be really effective must of course be administered by an executive body , and not merely by means of lawsuits . The design should be to prevent the abuses incident to the creation of unhealthy and improper combinations , instead of waiting until they are in existence and then attempting to destroy them by civil or criminal proceedings . A combination should not be tolerated if it abuse the power acquired by combination to the public detriment . No corporation or association of any kind should be permitted to engage in foreign or interstate commerce that is formed for the purpose of , or whose operations create , a monopoly or general control of the production , sale , or distribution of any one or more of the prime necessities of life or articles of general use and necessity . Such combinations are against public policy they violate the common law the doors of the courts are closed to those who are parties to them , and I believe the Congress can close the channels of interstate commerce against them for its protection . The law should make its prohibitions and permissions as clear and definite as possible , leaving the least possible room for arbitrary action , or allegation of such action , on the part of the Executive , or of divergent interpretations by the courts . Among the points to be aimed at should be the prohibition of unhealthy competition , such as by rendering service at an actual loss for the purpose of crushing out competition , the prevention of inflation of capital , and the prohibition of a corporation s making exclusive trade with itself a condition of having any trade with itself . Reasonable agreements between , or combinations of , corporations should be permitted , provided they are submitted to and approved by some appropriate Government body . The Congress has the power to charter corporations to engage in interstate and foreign commerce , and a general law can be enacted under the provisions of which existing corporations could take out Federal charters and new Federal corporations could be created . An essential provision of such a law should be a method of predetermining by some Federal board or commission whether the applicant for a Federal charter was an association or combination within the restrictions of the Federal law . Provision should also be made for complete publicity in all matters affecting the public and complete protection to the investing public and the shareholders in the matter of issuing corporate securities . If an incorporation law is not deemed advisable , a license act for big interstate corporations might be enacted or a combination of the two might be tried . The supervision established might be analogous to that now exercised over national banks . At least , the antitrust act should be supplemented by specific prohibitions of the methods which experience has shown have been of most service in enabling monopolistic combinations to crush out competition . The real owners of a corporation should be compelled to do business in their own name . The right to hold stock in other corporations should hereafter be denied to interstate corporations , unless on approval by the Government officials , and a prerequisite to such approval should be the listing with the Government of all owners and stockholders , both by the corporation owning such stock and by the corporation in which such stock is owned . To confer upon the National Government , in connection with the amendment I advocate in the antitrust law , power of supervision over big business concerns engaged in interstate commerce , would benefit them as it has benefited the national banks . In the recent business crisis it is noteworthy that the institutions which failed were institutions which were not under the supervision and control of the National Government . Those which were under National control stood the test . National control of the kind above advocated would be to the benefit of every well managed railway . From the standpoint of the public there is need for additional tracks , additional terminals , and improvements in the actual handling of the railroads , and all this as rapidly as possible . Ample , safe , and speedy transportation facilities are even more necessary than cheap transportation . Therefore , there is need for the investment of money which will provide for all these things while at the same time securing as far as is possible better wages and shorter hours for their employees . Therefore , while there must be just and reasonable regulation of rates , we should be the first to protest against any arbitrary and unthinking movement to cut them down without the fullest and most careful consideration of all interests concerned and of the actual needs of the situation . Only a special body of men acting for the National Government under authority conferred upon it by the Congress is competent to pass judgment on such a matter . Those who fear , from any reason , the extension of Federal activity will do well to study the history not only of the national banking act but of the pure food law , and notably the meat inspection law recently enacted . The pure food law was opposed so violently that its passage was delayed for a decade yet it has worked unmixed and immediate good . The meat inspection law was even more violently assailed and the same men who now denounce the attitude of the National Government in seeking to oversee and control the workings of interstate common carriers and business concerns , then asserted that we were discrediting and ruining a great American industry . Two years have not elapsed , and already it has become evident that the great benefit the law confers upon the public is accompanied by an equal benefit to the reputable packing establishments . The latter are better off under the law than they were without it . The benefit to interstate common carriers and business concerns from the legislation I advocate would be equally marked . Incidentally , in the passage of the pure food law the action of the various State food and dairy commissioners showed in striking fashion how much good for the whole people results from the hearty cooperation of the Federal and State officials in securing a given reform . It is primarily to the action of these State commissioners that we owe the enactment of this law for they aroused the people , first to demand the enactment and enforcement of State laws on the subject , and then the enactment of the Federal law , without which the State laws were largely ineffective . There must be the closest cooperation between the National and State governments in administering these laws . In my Message to the Congress a year ago I spoke as follows of the currency I especially call your attention to the condition of our currency laws . The national bank act has ably served a great purpose in aiding the enormous business development of the country , and within ten years there has been an increase in circulation per capita from 21 . 41 to 33 . 08 . For several years evidence has been accumulating that additional legislation is needed . The recurrence of each crop season emphasizes the defects of the present laws . There must soon be a revision of them , because to leave them as they are means to incur liability of business disaster . Since your body adjourned there has been a fluctuation in the interest on call money from 2 per cent to 30 percent , and the fluctuation was even greater during the preceding six months . The Secretary of the Treasury had to step in and by wise action put a stop to the most violent period of oscillation . Even worse than such fluctuation is the advance in commercial rates and the uncertainty felt in the sufficiency of credit even at high rates . All commercial interests suffer during each crop period . Excessive rates for call money in New York attract money from the interior banks into the speculative field . This depletes the fund that would otherwise be available for commercial uses , and commercial borrowers are forced to pay abnormal rates , so that each fall a tax , in the shape of increased interest charges , is placed on the whole commerce of the country . The mere statement of these facts shows that our present system is seriously defective . There is need of a change . Unfortunately , however , many of the proposed changes must be ruled from consideration because they are complicated , are not easy of comprehension , and tend to disturb existing rights and interests . We must also rule out any plan which would materially impair the value of the United States 2 per cent bonds now pledged to secure circulation , the issue of which was made under conditions peculiarly creditable to the Treasury . I do not press any especial plan . Various plans have recently been proposed by expert committees of bankers . Among the plans which are possibly feasible and which certainly should receive your consideration is that repeatedly brought to your attention by the present Secretary of the Treasury , the essential features of which have been approved by many prominent bankers and business men . According to this plan national banks should be permitted to issue a specified proportion of their capital in notes of a given kind , the issue to be taxed at so high a rate as to drive the notes back when not wanted in legitimate trade . This plan would not permit the issue of currency to give banks additional profits , but to meet the emergency presented by times of stringency . I do not say that this is the right system . I only advance it to emphasize my belief that there is need for the adoption of some system which shall be automatic and open to all sound banks , so as to avoid all possibility of discrimination and favoritism . Such a plan would tend to prevent the spasms of high money and speculation which now obtain in the New York market for at present there is too much currency at certain seasons of the year , and its accumulation at New York tempts bankers to lend it at low rates for speculative purposes whereas at other times when the crops are being moved there is urgent need for a large but temporary increase in the currency supply . It must never be forgotten that this question concerns business men generally quite as much as bankers especially is this true of stockmen , farmers , and business men in the West for at present at certain seasons of the year the difference in interest rates between the East and the West is from 6 to 10 per cent , whereas in Canada the corresponding difference is but 2 per cent . Any plan must , of course , guard the interests of western and southern bankers as carefully as it guards the interests of New York or Chicago bankers , and must be drawn from the standpoints of the farmer and the merchant no less than from the standpoints of the city banker and the country banker . I again urge on the Congress the need of immediate attention to this matter . We need a greater elasticity in our currency provided , of course , that we recognize the even greater need of a safe and secure currency . There must always be the most rigid examination by the National authorities . Provision should be made for an emergency currency . The emergency issue should , of course , be made with an effective guaranty , and upon conditions carefully prescribed by the Government . Such emergency issue must be based on adequate securities approved by the Government , and must be issued under a heavy tax . This would permit currency being issued when the demand for it was urgent , while securing its requirement as the demand fell off . It is worth investigating to determine whether officers and directors of national banks should ever be allowed to loan to themselves . Trust companies should be subject to the same supervision as banks legislation to this effect should be enacted for the District of Columbia and the Territories . Yet we must also remember that even the wisest legislation on the subject can only accomplish a certain amount . No legislation can by any possibility guarantee the business community against the results of speculative folly any more than it can guarantee an individual against the results of his extravagance . When an individual mortgages his house to buy an automobile he invites disaster and when wealthy men , or men who pose as such , or are unscrupulously or foolishly eager to become such , indulge in reckless speculation especially if it is accompanied by dishonesty they jeopardize not only their own future but the future of all their innocent fellow citizens , for the expose the whole business community to panic and distress . The income account of the Nation is in a most satisfactory condition . For the six fiscal years ending with the 1st of July last , the total expenditures and revenues of the National Government , exclusive of the postal revenues and expenditures , were , in round numbers , revenues , 3 , 465 , 000 , 0000 , and expenditures , 3 , 275 , 000 , 000 . The net excess of income over expenditures , including in the latter the fifty millions expended for the Panama Canal , was one hundred and ninety million dollars for the six years , an average of about thirty one millions a year . This represents an approximation between income and outgo which it would be hard to improve . The satisfactory working of the present tariff law has been chiefly responsible for this excellent showing . Nevertheless , there is an evident and constantly growing feeling among our people that the time is rapidly approaching when our system of revenue legislation must be revised . This country is definitely committed to the protective system and any effort to uproot it could not but cause widespread industrial disaster . In other words , the principle of the present tariff law could not with wisdom be changed . But in a country of such phenomenal growth as ours it is probably well that every dozen years or so the tariff laws should be carefully scrutinized so as to see that no excessive or improper benefits are conferred thereby , that proper revenue is provided , and that our foreign trade is encouraged . There must always be as a minimum a tariff which will not only allow for the collection of an ample revenue but which will at least make good the difference in cost of production here and abroad that is , the difference in the labor cost here and abroad , for the . well being of the wage worker must ever be a cardinal point of American policy . The question should be approached purely from a business standpoint both the time and the manner of the change being such as to arouse the minimum of agitation and disturbance in the business world , and to give the least play for selfish and factional motives . The sole consideration should be to see that the sum total of changes represents the public good . This means that the subject can not with wisdom be dealt with in the year preceding a Presidential election , because as a matter of fact experience has conclusively shown that at such a time it is impossible to get men to treat it from the standpoint of the public good . In my judgment the wise time to deal with the matter is immediately after such election . When our tax laws are revised the question of an income tax and an inheritance tax should receive the careful attention of our legislators . In my judgment both of these taxes should be part of our system of Federal taxation . I speak diffidently about the income tax because one scheme for an income tax was declared unconstitutional by the Supreme Court while in addition it is a difficult tax to administer in its practical working , and great care would have to be exercised to see that it was not evaded by the very men whom it was most desirable to have taxed , for if so evaded it would , of course , be worse than no tax at all as the least desirable of all taxes is the tax which bears heavily upon the honest as compared with the dishonest man . Nevertheless , a graduated income tax of the proper type would be a desirable feature of Federal taxation , and it is to be hoped that one may be devised which the Supreme Court will declare constitutional . The inheritance tax , however , is both a far better method of taxation , and far more important for the purpose of having the fortunes of the country bear in proportion to their increase in size a corresponding increase and burden of taxation . The Government has the absolute right to decide as to the terms upon which a man shall receive a bequest or devise from another , and this point in the devolution of property is especially appropriate for the imposition of a tax . Laws imposing such taxes have repeatedly been placed upon the National statute books and as repeatedly declared constitutional by the courts and these laws contained the progressive principle , that is , after a certain amount is reached the bequest or gift , in life or death , is increasingly burdened and the rate of taxation is increased in proportion to the remoteness of blood of the man receiving the bequest . These principles are recognized already in the leading civilized nations of the world . In Great Britain all the estates worth 5 , 000 or less are practically exempt from death duties , while the increase is such that when an estate exceeds five millions of dollars in value and passes to a distant kinsman or stranger in blood the Government receives all told an amount equivalent to nearly a fifth of the whole estate . In France so much of an inheritance as exceeds 10 , 000 , 000 pays over a fifth to the State if it passes to a distant relative . The German law is especially interesting to us because it makes the inheritance tax an imperial measure while allotting to the individual States of the Empire a portion of the proceeds and permitting them to impose taxes in addition to those imposed by the Imperial Government . Small inheritances are exempt , but the tax is so sharply progressive that when the inheritance is still not very large , provided it is not an agricultural or a forest land , it is taxed at the rate of 25 per cent if it goes to distant relatives . There is no reason why in the United States the National Government should not impose inheritance taxes in addition to those imposed by the States , and when we last had an inheritance tax about one half of the States levied such taxes concurrently with the National Government , making a combined maximum rate , in some cases as high as 25 per cent . The French law has one feature which is to be heartily commended . The progressive principle is so applied that each higher rate is imposed only on the excess above the amount subject to the next lower rate so that each increase of rate will apply only to a certain amount above a certain maximum . The tax should if possible be made to bear more heavily upon those residing without the country than within it . A heavy progressive tax upon a very large fortune is in no way such a tax upon thrift or industry as a like would be on a small fortune . No advantage comes either to the country as a whole or to the individuals inheriting the money by permitting the transmission in their entirety of the enormous fortunes which would be affected by such a tax and as an incident to its function of revenue raising , such a tax would help to preserve a measurable equality of opportunity for the people of the generations growing to manhood . We have not the slightest sympathy with that socialistic idea which would try to put laziness , thriftlessness and inefficiency on a par with industry , thrift and efficiency which would strive to break up not merely private property , but what is far more important , the home , the chief prop upon which our whole civilization stands . Such a theory , if ever adopted , would mean the ruin of the entire country a ruin which would bear heaviest upon the weakest , upon those least able to shift for themselves . But proposals for legislation such as this herein advocated are directly opposed to this class of socialistic theories . Our aim is to recognize what Lincoln pointed out The fact that there are some respects in which men are obviously not equal but also to insist that there should be an equality of self respect and of mutual respect , an equality of rights before the law , and at least an approximate equality in the conditions under which each man obtains the chance to show the stuff that is in him when compared to his fellows . A few years ago there was loud complaint that the law could not be invoked against wealthy offenders . There is no such complaint now . The course of the Department of Justice during the last few years has been such as to make it evident that no man stands above the law , that no corporation is so wealthy that it can not be held to account . The Department of Justice has been as prompt to proceed against the wealthiest malefactor whose crime was one of greed and cunning as to proceed against the agitator who incites to brutal violence . Everything that can be done under the existing law , and with the existing state of public opinion , which so profoundly influences both the courts and juries , has been done . But the laws themselves need strengthening in more than one important point they should be made more definite , so that no honest man can be led unwittingly to break them , and so that the real wrongdoer can be readily punished . Moreover , there must be the public opinion back of the laws or the laws themselves will be of no avail . At present , while the average juryman undoubtedly wishes to see trusts broken up , and is quite ready to fine the corporation itself , he is very reluctant to find the facts proven beyond a reasonable doubt when it comes to sending to jail a member of the business community for indulging in practices which are profoundly unhealthy , but which , unfortunately , the business community has grown to recognize as well nigh normal . Both the present condition of the law and the present temper of juries render it a task of extreme difficulty to get at the real wrongdoer in any such case , especially by imprisonment . Yet it is from every standpoint far preferable to punish the prime offender by imprisonment rather than to fine the corporation , with the attendant damage to stockholders . The two great evils in the execution of our criminal laws to day are sentimentality and technicality . For the latter the remedy must come from the hands of the legislatures , the courts , and the lawyers . The other must depend for its cure upon the gradual growth of a sound public opinion which shall insist that regard for the law and the demands of reason shall control all other influences and emotions in the jury box . Both of these evils must be removed or public discontent with the criminal law will continue . Instances of abuse in the granting of injunctions in labor disputes continue to occur , and the resentment in the minds of those who feel that their rights are being invaded and their liberty of action and of speech unwarrantably restrained continues likewise to grow . Much of the attack on the use of the process of injunction is wholly without warrant but I am constrained to express the belief that for some of it there is warrant . This question is becoming more and more one of prime importance , and unless the courts will themselves deal with it in effective manner , it is certain ultimately to demand some form of legislative action . It would be most unfortunate for our social welfare if we should permit many honest and law abiding citizens to feel that they had just cause for regarding our courts with hostility . I earnestly commend to the attention of the Congress this matter , so that some way may be devised which will limit the abuse of injunctions and protect those rights which from time to time it unwarrantably invades . Moreover , discontent is often expressed with the use of the process of injunction by the courts , not only in labor disputes , but where State laws are concerned . I refrain from discussion of this question as I am informed that it will soon receive the consideration of the Supreme Court . The Federal courts must of course decide ultimately what are the respective spheres of State and Nation in connection with any law , State or National , and they must decide definitely and finally in matters affecting individual citizens , not only as to the rights and wrongs of labor but as to the rights and wrongs of capital and the National Government must always see that the decision of the court is put into effect . The process of injunction is an essential adjunct of the court s doing its work well and as preventive measures are always better than remedial , the wise use of this process is from every standpoint commendable . But where it is recklessly or unnecessarily used , the abuse should he censured , above all by the very men who are properly anxious to prevent any effort to shear the courts of this necessary power . The court s decision must be final the protest is only against the conduct of individual judges in needlessly anticipating such final decision , or in the tyrannical use of what is nominally a temporary injunction to accomplish what is in fact a permanent decision . The loss of life and limb from railroad accidents in this country has become appalling . It is a subject of which the National Government should take supervision . It might be well to begin by providing for a Federal inspection of interstate railroads somewhat along the lines of Federal inspection of steamboats , although not going so far perhaps at first all that it would be necessary to have would be some officer whose duty would be to investigate all accidents on interstate railroads and report in detail the causes thereof . Such an officer should make it his business to get into close touch with railroad operating men so as to become thoroughly familiar with every side of the question , the idea being to work along the lines of the present steamboat inspection law . The National Government should be a model employer . It should demand the highest quality of service from each of its employees and it should care for all of them properly in return . Congress should adopt legislation providing limited but definite compensation for accidents to all workmen within the scope of the Federal power , including employees of navy yards and arsenals . In other words , a model employers liability act , far reaching and thoroughgoing , should be enacted which should apply to all positions , public and private , over which the National Government has jurisdiction . The number of accidents to wage workers , including those that are preventable and those that are not , has become appalling in the mechanical , manufacturing , and transportation operations of the day . It works grim hardship to the ordinary wage worker and his family to have the effect of such an accident fall solely upon him and , on the other hand , there are whole classes of attorneys who exist only by inciting men who may or may not have been wronged to undertake suits for negligence . As a matter of fact a suit for negligence is generally an inadequate remedy for the person injured , while it often causes altogether disproportionate annoyance to the employer . The law should be made such that the payment for accidents by the employer would be automatic instead of being a matter for lawsuits . Workmen should receive certain and definite compensation for all accidents in industry irrespective of negligence . The employer is the agent of the public and on his own responsibility and for his own profit he serves the public . When he starts in motion agencies which create risks for others , he should take all the ordinary and extraordinary risks involved and the risk he thus at the moment assumes will ultimately be assumed , as it ought to be , by the general public . Only in this way can the shock of the accident be diffused , instead of falling upon the man or woman least able to bear it , as is now the case . The community at large should share the burdens as well as the benefits of industry . By the proposed law , employers would gain a desirable certainty of obligation and get rid of litigation to determine it , while the workman and his family would be relieved from a crushing load . With such a policy would come increased care , and accidents would be reduced in number . The National laws providing for employers liability on railroads engaged in interstate commerce and for safety appliances , as well as for diminishing the hours any employee of a railroad should be permitted to work , should all be strengthened wherever in actual practice they have shown weakness they should be kept on the statute books in thoroughgoing form . The constitutionality of the employers liability act passed by the preceding Congress has been carried before the courts . In two jurisdictions the law has been declared unconstitutional , and in three jurisdictions its constitutionality has been affirmed . The question has been carried to the Supreme Court , the case has been heard by that tribunal , and a decision is expected at an early date . In the event that the court should affirm the constitutionality of the act , I urge further legislation along the lines advocated in my Message to the preceding Congress . The practice of putting the entire burden of loss to life or limb upon the victim or the victim s family is a form of social injustice in which the United States stands in unenviable prominence . In both our Federal and State legislation we have , with few exceptions , scarcely gone farther than the repeal of the fellow servant principle of the old law of liability , and in some of our States even this slight modification of a completely outgrown principle has not yet been secured . The legislation of the rest of the industrial world stands out in striking contrast to our backwardness in this respect . Since 1895 practically every country of Europe , together with Great Britain , New Zealand , Australia , British Columbia , and the Cape of Good Hope has enacted legislation embodying in one form or another the complete recognition of the principle which places upon the employer the entire trade risk in the various lines of industry . I urge upon the Congress the enactment of a law which will at the same time bring Federal legislation up to the standard already established by all the European countries , and which will serve as a stimulus to the various States to perfect their legislation in this regard . The Congress should consider the extension of the eight hour law . The constitutionality of the present law has recently been called into question , and the Supreme Court has decided that the existing legislation is unquestionably within the powers of the Congress . The principle of the eight hour day should as rapidly and as far as practicable be extended to the entire work carried on by the Government and the present law should be amended to embrace contracts on those public works which the present wording of the act has been construed to exclude . The general introduction of the eight hour day should be the goal toward which we should steadily tend , and the Government should set the example in this respect . Strikes and lockouts , with their attendant loss and suffering , continue to increase . For the five years ending December 31 , 1905 , the number of strikes was greater than those in any previous ten years and was double the number in the preceding five years . These figures indicate the increasing need of providing some machinery to deal with this class of disturbance in the interest alike of the employer , the employee , and the general public . I renew my previous recommendation that the Congress favorably consider the matter of creating the machinery for compulsory investigation of such industrial controversies as are of sufficient magnitude and of sufficient concern to the people of the country as a whole to warrant the Federal Government in taking action . The need for some provision for such investigation was forcibly illustrated during the past summer . A strike of telegraph operators seriously interfered with telegraphic communication , causing great damage to business interests and serious inconvenience to the general public . Appeals were made to me from many parts of the country , from city councils , from boards of trade , from chambers of commerce , and from labor organizations , urging that steps be taken to terminate the strike . Everything that could with any propriety be done by a representative of the Government was done , without avail , and for weeks the public stood by and suffered without recourse of any kind . Had the machinery existed and had there been authority for compulsory investigation of the dispute , the public would have been placed in possession of the merits of the controversy , and public opinion would probably have brought about a prompt adjustment . Each successive step creating machinery for the adjustment of labor difficulties must be taken with caution , but we should endeavor to make progress in this direction . The provisions of the act of 1898 creating the chairman of the Interstate Commerce Commission and the Commissioner of Labor a board of mediation in controversies between interstate railroads and their employees has , for the first time , been subjected to serious tests within the past year , and the wisdom of the experiment has been fully demonstrated . The creation of a board for compulsory investigation in cases where mediation fails and arbitration is rejected is the next logical step in a progressive program . It is certain that for some time to come there will be a constant increase absolutely , and perhaps relatively , of those among our citizens who dwell in cities or towns of some size and who work for wages . This means that there will be an ever increasing need to consider the problems inseparable from a great industrial civilization . Where an immense and complex business , especially in those branches relating to manufacture and transportation , is transacted by a large number of capitalists who employ a very much larger number of wage earners , the former tend more and more to combine into corporations and the latter into unions . The relations of the capitalist and wage worker to one another , and of each to the general public , are not always easy to adjust and to put them and keep them on a satisfactory basis is one of the most important and one of the most delicate tasks before our whole civilization . Much of the work for the accomplishment of this end must be done by the individuals concerned themselves , whether singly or in combination and the one fundamental fact that must never be lost track of is that the character of the average man , whether he be a man of means or a man who works with his hands , is the most important factor in solving the problem aright . But it is almost equally important to remember that without good laws it is also impossible to reach the proper solution . It is idle to hold that without good laws evils such as child labor , as the over working of women , as the failure to protect employees from loss of life or limb , can be effectively reached , any more than the evils of rebates and stock watering can be reached without good laws . To fail to stop these practices by legislation means to force honest men into them , because otherwise the dishonest who surely will take advantage of them will have everything their own way . If the States will correct these evils , well and good but the Nation must stand ready to aid them . No question growing out of our rapid and complex industrial development is more important than that of the employment of women and children . The presence of women in industry reacts with extreme directness upon the character of the home and upon family life , and the conditions surrounding the employment of children bear a vital relation to our future citizenship . Our legislation in those areas under the control of the Congress is very much behind the legislation of our more progressive States . A thorough and comprehensive measure should be adopted at this session of the Congress relating to the employment of women and children in the District of Columbia and the Territories . The investigation into the condition of women and children wage earners recently authorized and directed by the Congress is now being carried on in the various States , and I recommend that the appropriation made last year for beginning this work be renewed , in order that we may have the thorough and comprehensive investigation which the subject demands . The National Government has as an ultimate resort for control of child labor the use of the interstate commerce clause to prevent the products of child labor from entering into interstate commerce . But before using this it ought certainly to enact model laws on the subject for the Territories under its own immediate control . There is one fundamental proposition which can be laid down as regards all these matters , namely While honesty by itself will not solve the problem , yet the insistence upon honesty not merely technical honesty , but honesty in purpose and spirit is an essential element in arriving at a right conclusion . Vice in its cruder and more archaic forms shocks everybody but there is very urgent need that public opinion should be just as severe in condemnation of the vice which hides itself behind class or professional loyalty , or which denies that it is vice if it can escape conviction in the courts . The public and the representatives of the public , the high officials , whether on the bench or in executive or legislative positions , need to remember that often the most dangerous criminals , so far as the life of the Nation is concerned , are not those who commit the crimes known to and condemned by the popular conscience for centuries , but those who commit crimes only rendered possible by the complex conditions of our modern industrial life . It makes not a particle of difference whether these crimes are committed by a capitalist or by a laborer , by a leading banker or manufacturer or railroad man , or by a leading representative of a labor union . Swindling in stocks , corrupting legislatures , making fortunes by the inflation of securities , by wrecking railroads , by destroying competitors through rebates these forms of wrongdoing in the capitalist , are far more infamous than any ordinary form of embezzlement or forgery yet it is a matter of extreme difficulty to secure the punishment of the man most guilty of them , most responsible for them . The business man who condones such conduct stands on a level with the labor man who deliberately supports a corrupt demagogue and agitator , whether head of a union or head of some municipality , because he is said to have stood by the union . The members of the business community , the educators , or clergymen , who condone and encourage the first kind of wrongdoing , are no more dangerous to the community , but are morally even worse , than the labor men who are guilty of the second type of wrongdoing , because less is to be pardoned those who have no such excuse as is furnished either by ignorance or by dire need . When the Department of Agriculture was founded there was much sneering as to its usefulness . No Department of the Government , however , has more emphatically vindicated its usefulness , and none save the Post Office Department comes so continually and intimately into touch with the people . The two citizens whose welfare is in the aggregate most vital to the welfare of the Nation , and therefore to the welfare of all other citizens , are the wage worker who does manual labor and the tiller of the soil , the farmer . There are , of course , kinds of labor where the work must be purely mental , and there are other kinds of labor where , under existing conditions , very little demand indeed is made upon the mind , though I am glad to say that the proportion of men engaged in this kind of work is diminishing . But in any community with the solid , healthy qualities which make up a really great nation the bulk of the people should do work which calls for the exercise of both body and mind . Progress can not permanently exist in the abandonment of physical labor , but in the development of physical labor , so that it shall represent more and more the work of the trained mind in the trained body . Our school system is gravely defective in so far as it puts a premium upon mere literary training and tends therefore to train the boy away from the farm and the workshop . Nothing is more needed than the best type of industrial school , the school for mechanical industries in the city , the school for practically teaching agriculture in the country . The calling of the skilled tiller of the soil , the calling of the skilled mechanic , should alike be recognized as professions , just as emphatically as the callings of lawyer , doctor , merchant , or clerk . The schools recognize this fact and it should equally be recognized in popular opinion . The young man who has the farsightedness and courage to recognize it and to get over the idea that it makes a difference whether what he earns is called salary or wages , and who refuses to enter the crowded field of the so called professions , and takes to constructive industry instead , is reasonably sure of an ample reward in earnings , in health , in opportunity to marry early , and to establish a home with a fair amount of freedom from worry . It should be one of our prime objects to put both the farmer and the mechanic on a higher plane of efficiency and reward , so as to increase their effectiveness in the economic world , and therefore the dignity , the remuneration , and the power of their positions in the social world . No growth of cities , no growth of wealth , can make up for any loss in either the number or the character of the farming population . We of the United States should realize this above almost all other peoples . We began our existence as a nation of farmers , and in every great crisis of the past a peculiar dependence has had to be placed upon the farming population and this dependence has hitherto been justified . But it can not be justified in the future if agriculture is permitted to sink in the scale as compared with other employments . We can not afford to lose that preeminently typical American , the farmer who owns his own medium sized farm . To have his place taken by either a class of small peasant proprietors , or by a class of great landlords with tenant farmed estates would be a veritable calamity . The growth of our cities is a good thing but only in so far as it does not mean a growth at the expense of the country farmer . We must welcome the rise of physical sciences in their application to agricultural practices , and we must do all we can to render country conditions more easy and pleasant . There are forces which now tend to bring about both these results , but they are , as yet , in their infancy . The National Government through the Department of Agriculture should do all it can by joining with the State governments and with independent associations of farmers to encourage the growth in the open farming country of such institutional and social movements as will meet the demand of the best type of farmers , both for the improvement of their farms and for the betterment of the life itself . The Department of Agriculture has in many places , perhaps especially in certain districts of the South , accomplished an extraordinary amount by cooperating with and teaching the farmers through their associations , on their own soil , how to increase their income by managing their farms better than they were hitherto managed . The farmer must not lose his independence , his initiative , his rugged self reliance , yet he must learn to work in the heartiest cooperation with his fellows , exactly as the business man has learned to work and he must prepare to use to constantly better advantage the knowledge that can be obtained from agricultural colleges , while he must insist upon a practical curriculum in the schools in which his children are taught . The Department of Agriculture and the Department of Commerce and Labor both deal with the fundamental needs of our people in the production of raw material and its manufacture and distribution , and , therefore , with the welfare of those who produce it in the raw state , and of those who manufacture and distribute it . The Department of Commerce and Labor has but recently been founded but has already justified its existence while the Department of Agriculture yields to no other in the Government in the practical benefits which it produces in proportion to the public money expended . It must continue in the future to deal with growing crops as it has dealt in the past , but it must still further extend its field of usefulness hereafter by dealing with live men , through a far reaching study and treatment of the problems of farm life alike from the industrial and economic and social standpoint . Farmers must cooperate with one another and with the Government , and the Government can best give its aid through associations of farmers , so as to deliver to the farmer the large body of agricultural knowledge which has been accumulated by the National and State governments and by the agricultural colleges and schools . The grain producing industry of the country , one of the most important in the United States , deserves special consideration at the hands of the Congress . Our grain is sold almost exclusively by grades . To secure satisfactory results in our home markets and to facilitate our trade abroad , these grades should approximate the highest degree of uniformity and certainty . The present diverse methods of inspection and grading throughout the country under different laws and boards , result in confusion and lack of uniformity , destroying that confidence which is necessary for healthful trade . Complaints against the present methods have continued for years and they are growing in volume and intensity , not only in this country but abroad . I therefore suggest to the Congress the advisability of a National system of inspection and grading of grain entering into interstate and foreign commerce as a remedy for the present evils . The conservation of our natural resources and their proper use constitute the fundamental problem which underlies almost every other problem of our National life . We must maintain for our civilization the adequate material basis without which that civilization can not exist . We must show foresight , we must look ahead . As a nation we not only enjoy a wonderful measure of present prosperity but if this prosperity is used aright it is an earnest of future success such as no other nation will have . The reward of foresight for this Nation is great and easily foretold . But there must be the look ahead , there must be a realization of the fact that to waste , to destroy , our natural resources , to skin and exhaust the land instead of using it so as to increase its usefulness , will result in undermining in the days of our children the very prosperity which we ought by right to hand down to them amplified and developed . For the last few years , through several agencies , the Government has been endeavoring to get our people to look ahead and to substitute a planned and orderly development of our resources in place of a haphazard striving for immediate profit . Our great river systems should be developed as National water highways , the Mississippi , with its tributaries , standing first in importance , and the Columbia second , although there are many others of importance on the Pacific , the Atlantic and the Gulf slopes . The National Government should undertake this work , and I hope a beginning will be made in the present Congress and the greatest of all our rivers , the Mississippi , should receive especial attention . From the Great Lakes to the mouth of the Mississippi there should be a deep waterway , with deep waterways leading from it to the East and the West . Such a waterway would practically mean the extension of our coast line into the very heart of our country . It would be of incalculable benefit to our people . If begun at once it can be carried through in time appreciably to relieve the congestion of our great freight carrying lines of railroads . The work should be systematically and continuously carried forward in accordance with some well conceived plan . The main streams should be improved to the highest point of efficiency before the improvement of the branches is attempted and the work should be kept free from every faint of recklessness or jobbery . The inland waterways which lie just back of the whole eastern and southern coasts should likewise be developed . Moreover , the development of our waterways involves many other important water problems , all of which should be considered as part of the same general scheme . The Government dams should be used to produce hundreds of thousands of horsepower as an incident to improving navigation for the annual value of the unused water power of the United States perhaps exceeds the annual value of the products of all our mines . As an incident to creating the deep waterways down the Mississippi , the Government should build along its whole lower length levees which taken together with the control of the headwaters , will at once and forever put a complete stop to all threat of floods in the immensely fertile Delta region . The territory lying adjacent to the Mississippi along its lower course will thereby become one of the most prosperous and populous , as it already is one of the most fertile , farming regions in all the world . I have appointed an Inland Waterways Commission to study and outline a comprehensive scheme of development along all the lines indicated . Later I shall lay its report before the Congress . Irrigation should be far more extensively developed than at present , not only in the States of the Great Plains and the Rocky Mountains , but in many others , as , for instance , in large portions of the South Atlantic and Gulf States , where it should go hand in hand with the reclamation of swamp land . The Federal Government should seriously devote itself to this task , realizing that utilization of waterways and water power , forestry , irrigation , and the reclamation of lands threatened with overflow , are all interdependent parts of the same problem . The work of the Reclamation Service in developing the larger opportunities of the western half of our country for irrigation is more important than almost any other movement . The constant purpose of the Government in connection with the Reclamation Service has been to use the water resources of the public lands for the ultimate greatest good of the greatest number in other words , to put upon the land permanent home makers , to use and develop it for themselves and for their children and children s children . There has been , of course , opposition to this work opposition from some interested men who desire to exhaust the land for their own immediate profit without regard to the welfare of the next generation , and opposition from honest and well meaning men who did not fully understand the subject or who did not look far enough ahead . This opposition is , I think , dying away , and our people are understanding that it would be utterly wrong to allow a few individuals to exhaust for their own temporary personal profit the resources which ought to be developed through use so as to be conserved for the permanent common advantage of the people as a whole . The effort of the Government to deal with the public land has been based upon the same principle as that of the Reclamation Service . The land law system which was designed to meet the needs of the fertile and well watered regions of the Middle West has largely broken down when applied to the dryer regions of the Great Plains , the mountains , and much of the Pacific slope , where a farm of 160 acres is inadequate for self support . In these regions the system lent itself to fraud , and much land passed out of the hands of the Government without passing into the hands of the home maker . The Department of the Interior and the Department of Justice joined in prosecuting the offenders against the law and they have accomplished much , while where the administration of the law has been defective it has been changed . But the laws themselves are defective . Three years ago a public lands commission was appointed to scrutinize the law , and defects , and recommend a remedy . Their examination specifically showed the existence of great fraud upon the public domain , and their recommendations for changes in the law were made with the design of conserving the natural resources of every part of the public lands by putting it to its best use . Especial attention was called to the prevention of settlement by the passage of great areas of public land into the hands of a few men , and to the enormous waste caused by unrestricted grazing upon the open range . The recommendations of the Public Lands Commission are sound , for they are especially in the interest of the actual homemaker and where the small home maker can not at present utilize the land they provide that the Government shall keep control of it so that it may not be monopolized by a few men . The Congress has not yet acted upon these recommendations but they are so just and proper , so essential to our National welfare , that I feel confident , if the Congress will take time to consider them , that they will ultimately be adopted . Some such legislation as that proposed is essential in order to preserve the great stretches of public grazing land which are unfit for cultivation under present methods and are valuable only for the forage which they supply . These stretches amount in all to some 300 , 000 , 000 acres , and are open to the free grazing of cattle , sheep , horses and goats , without restriction . Such a system , or lack of system , means that the range is not so much used as wasted by abuse . As the West settles the range becomes more and more over grazed . Much of it can not be used to advantage unless it is fenced , for fencing is the only way by which to keep in check the owners of nomad flocks which roam hither and thither , utterly destroying the pastures and leaving a waste behind so that their presence is incompatible with the presence of home makers . The existing fences are all illegal . Some of them represent the improper exclusion of actual settlers , actual home makers , from territory which is usurped by great cattle companies . Some of them represent what is in itself a proper effort to use the range for those upon the land , and to prevent its use by nomadic outsiders . All these fences , those that are hurtful and those that are beneficial , are alike illegal and must come down . But it is an outrage that the law should necessitate such action on the part of the Administration . The unlawful fencing of public lands for private grazing must be stopped , but the necessity which occasioned it must be provided for . The Federal Government should have control of the range , whether by permit or lease , as local necessities may determine . Such control could secure the great benefit of legitimate fencing , while at the same time securing and promoting the settlement of the country . In some places it may be that the tracts of range adjacent to the homesteads of actual settlers should be allotted to them severally or in common for the summer grazing of their stock . Elsewhere it may be that a lease system would serve the purpose the leases to be temporary and subject to the rights of settlement , and the amount charged being large enough merely to permit of the efficient and beneficial control of the range by the Government , and of the payment to the county of the equivalent of what it would otherwise receive in taxes . The destruction of the public range will continue until some such laws as these are enacted . Fully to prevent the fraud in the public lands which , through the joint action of the Interior Department and the Department of Justice , we have been endeavoring to prevent , there must be further legislation , and especially a sufficient appropriation to permit the Department of the Interior to examine certain classes of entries on the ground before they pass into private ownership . The Government should part with its title only to the actual home maker , not to the profit maker who does not care to make a home . Our prime object is to secure the rights and guard the interests of the small ranchman , the man who plows and pitches hay for himself . It is this small ranchman , this actual settler and homemaker , who in the long run is most hurt by permitting thefts of the public land in whatever form . Optimism is a good characteristic , but if carried to an excess it becomes foolishness . We are prone to speak of the resources of this country as inexhaustible this is not so . The mineral wealth of the country , the coal , iron , oil , gas , and the like , does not reproduce itself , and therefore is certain to be exhausted ultimately and wastefulness in dealing with it to day means that our descendants will feel the exhaustion a generation or two before they otherwise would . But there are certain other forms of waste which could be entirely stopped the waste of soil by washing , for instance , which is among the most dangerous of all wastes now in progress in the United States , is easily preventable , so that this present enormous loss of fertility is entirely unnecessary . The preservation or replacement of the forests is one of the most important means of preventing this loss . We have made a beginning in forest preservation , but it is only a beginning . At present lumbering is the fourth greatest industry in the United States and yet , so rapid has been the rate of exhaustion of timber in the United States in the past , and so rapidly is the remainder being exhausted , that the country is unquestionably on the verge of a timber famine which will be felt in every household in the land . There has already been a rise in the price of lumber , but there is certain to be a more rapid and heavier rise in the future . The present annual consumption of lumber is certainly three times as great as the annual growth and if the consumption and growth continue unchanged , practically all our lumber will be exhausted in another generation , while long before the limit to complete exhaustion is reached the growing scarcity will make itself felt in many blighting ways upon our National welfare . About 20 per cent of our forested territory is now reserved in National forests but these do not include the most valuable timber lauds , and in any event the proportion is too small to expect that the reserves can accomplish more than a mitigation of the trouble which is ahead for the nation . Far more drastic action is needed . Forests can be lumbered so as to give to the public the full use of their mercantile timber without the slightest detriment to the forest , any more than it is a detriment to a farm to furnish a harvest so that there is no parallel between forests and mines , which can only be completely used by exhaustion . But forests , if used as all our forests have been used in the past and as most of them are still used , will be either wholly destroyed , or so damaged that many decades have to pass before effective use can be made of them again . All these facts are so obvious that it is extraordinary that it should be necessary to repeat them . Every business man in the land , every writer in the newspapers , every man or woman of an ordinary school education , ought to be able to see that immense quantities of timber are used in the country , that the forests which supply this timber are rapidly being exhausted , and that , if no change takes place , exhaustion will come comparatively soon , and that the effects of it will be felt severely in the every day life of our people . Surely , when these facts are so obvious , there should be no delay in taking preventive measures . Yet we seem as a nation to be willing to proceed in this matter with happy go lucky indifference even to the immediate future . It is this attitude which permits the self interest of a very few persons to weigh for more than the ultimate interest of all our people . There are persons who find it to their immense pecuniary benefit to destroy the forests by lumbering . They are to be blamed for thus sacrificing the future of the Nation as a whole to their own self interest of the moment but heavier blame attaches to the people at large for permitting such action , whether in the White Mountains , in the southern Alleghenies , or in the Rockies and Sierras . A big lumbering company , impatient for immediate returns and not caring to look far enough ahead , will often deliberately destroy all the good timber in a region , hoping afterwards to move on to some new country . The shiftless man of small means , who does not care to become an actual home maker but would like immediate profit , will find it to his advantage to take up timber land simply to turn it over to such a big company , and leave it valueless for future settlers . A big mine owner , anxious only to develop his mine at the moment , will care only to cut all the timber that he wishes without regard to the future probably net looking ahead to the condition of the country when the forests are exhausted , any more than he does to the condition when the mine is worked out . I do not blame these men nearly as much as I blame the supine public opinion , the indifferent public opinion , which permits their action to go unchecked . Of course to check the waste of timber means that there must be on the part of the public the acceptance of a temporary restriction in the lavish use of the timber , in order to prevent the total loss of this use in the future . There are plenty of men in public and private life who actually advocate the continuance of the present system of unchecked and wasteful extravagance , using as an argument the fact that to check it will of course mean interference with the ease and comfort of certain people who now get lumber at less cost than they ought to pay , at the expense of the future generations . Some of these persons actually demand that the present forest reserves be thrown open to destruction , because , forsooth , they think that thereby the price of lumber could be put down again for two or three or more years . Their attitude is precisely like that of an agitator protesting against the outlay of money by farmers on manure and in taking care of their farms generally . Undoubtedly , if the average farmer were content absolutely to ruin his farm , he could for two or three years avoid spending any money on it , and yet make a good deal of money out of it . But only a savage would , in his private affairs , show such reckless disregard of the future yet it is precisely this reckless disregard of the future which the opponents of the forestry system are now endeavoring to get the people of the United States to show . The only trouble with the movement for the preservation of our forests is that it has not gone nearly far enough , and was not begun soon enough . It is a most fortunate thing , however , that we began it when we did . We should acquire in the Appalachian and White Mountain regions all the forest lands that it is possible to acquire for the use of the Nation . These lands , because they form a National asset , are as emphatically national as the rivers which they feed , and which flow through so many States before they reach the ocean . There should be no tariff on any forest product grown in this country and , in especial , there should be no tariff on wood pulp due notice of the change being of course given to those engaged in the business so as to enable them to adjust themselves to the new conditions . The repeal of the duty on wood pulp should if possible be accompanied by an agreement with Canada that there shall be no export duty on Canadian pulp wood . In the eastern United States the mineral fuels have already passed into the hands of large private owners , and those of the West are rapidly following . It is obvious that these fuels should be conserved and not wasted , and it would be well to protect the people against unjust and extortionate prices , so far as that can still be done . What has been accomplished in the great oil fields of the Indian Territory by the action of the Administration , offers a striking example of the good results of such a policy . In my judgment the Government should have the right to keep the fee of the coal , oil , and gas fields in its own possession and to lease the rights to develop them under proper regulations or else , if the Congress will not adopt this method , the coal deposits should be sold under limitations , to conserve them as public utilities , the right to mine coal being separated from the title to the soil . The regulations should permit coal lands to be worked in sufficient quantity by the several corporations . The present limitations have been absurd , excessive , and serve no useful purpose , and often render it necessary that there should be either fraud or close abandonment of the work of getting out the coal . Work on the Panama Canal is proceeding in a highly satisfactory manner . In March last , John Stevens , chairman of the Commission and chief engineer , resigned , and the Commission was reorganized and constituted as follows Lieut . Col . George Goethals , Corps . of Engineers , Army , chairman and chief engineer Maj . Gall lard , Corps of Engineers , Army Maj . William Sibert , Corps of Engineers , Army Civil Engineer Rousseau , Navy Blackburn Col . Gorgas , Army , and Jackson Smith , Commissioners . This change of authority and direction went into effect on April 1 , without causing a perceptible check to the progress of the work . In March the total excavation in the Culebra Cut , where effort was chiefly concentrated , was 815 , 270 cubic yards . In April this was increased to 879 , 527 cubic yards . There was a considerable decrease in the output for May and June owing partly to the advent of the rainy season and partly to temporary trouble with the steam shovel men over the question of wages . This trouble was settled satisfactorily to all parties and in July the total excavation advanced materially and in August the grand total from all points in the canal prism by steam shovels and dredges exceeded all previous United States records , reaching 1 , 274 , 404 cubic yards . In September this record was eclipsed and a total of 1 , 517 , 412 cubic yards was removed . Of this amount 1 , 481 , 307 cubic yards were from the canal prism and 36 , 105 cubic yards were from accessory works . These results were achieved in the rainy season with a rainfall in August of 11 . 89 inches and in September of 11 . 65 inches . Finally , in October , the record was again eclipsed , the total excavation being 1 , 868 , 729 cubic yards a truly extraordinary record , especially in view of the heavy rainfall , which was 17 . 1 inches . In fact , experience during the last two rainy seasons demonstrates that the rains are a less serious obstacle to progress than has hitherto been supposed . Work on the locks and dams at Gatun , which began actively in March last , has advanced so far that it is thought that masonry work on the locks can be begun within fifteen months . In order to remove all doubt as to the satisfactory character of the foundations for the locks of the Canal , the Secretary of War requested three eminent civil engineers , of special experience in such construction , Alfred Noble , Frederic Stearns and John Freeman , to visit the Isthmus and make thorough personal investigations of the sites . These gentlemen went to the Isthmus in April and by means of test pits which had been dug for the purpose , they inspected the proposed foundations , and also examined the borings that had been made . In their report to the Secretary of War , under date of May 2 , 1907 , they said We found that all of the locks , of the dimensions now propesed , will rest upon rock of such character that it will furnish a safe and stable foundation . Subsequent new borings , conducted by the present Commission , have fully confirmed this verdict . They show that the locks will rest on rock for their entire length . The cross section of the dam and method of construction will be such as to insure against any slip or sloughing off . Similar examination of the foundations of the locks and dams on the Pacific side are in progress . I believe that the locks should be made of a width of 120 feet . Last winter bids were requested and received for doing the work of canal construction by contract . None of them was found to be satisfactory and all were rejected . It is the unanimous opinion of the present Commission that the work can be done better , more cheaply , and more quickly by the Government than by private contractors . Fully 80 per cent of the entire plant needed for construction has been purchased or contracted for machine shops have been erected and equipped for making all needed repairs to the plant many thousands of employees have been secured an effective organization has been perfected a recruiting system is in operation which is capable of furnishing more labor than can be used advantageously employees are well sheltered and well fed salaries paid are satisfactory , and the work is not only going forward smoothly , but it is producing results far in advance of the most sanguine anticipations . Under these favorable conditions , a change in the method of prosecuting the work would be unwise and unjustifiable , for it would inevitably disorganize existing conditions , check progress , and increase the cost and lengthen the time of completing the Canal . The chief engineer and all his professional associates are firmly convinced that the 85 feet level lock canal which they are constructing is the best that could be desired . Some of them had doubts on this point when they went to the Isthmus . As the plans have developed under their direction their doubts have been dispelled . While they may decide upon changes in detail as construction advances they are in hearty accord in approving the general plan . They believe that it provides a canal not only adequate to all demands that will be made upon it but superior in every way to a sea level canal . I concur in this belief . I commend to the favorable consideration of the Congress a postal savings bank system , as recommended by the Postmaster General . The primary object is to encourage among our people economy and thrift and by the use of postal savings banks to give them an opportunity to husband their resources , particularly those who have not the facilities at hand for depositing their money in savings banks . Viewed , however , from the experience of the past few weeks , it is evident that the advantages of such an institution are till more far reaching . Timid depositors have withdrawn their savings for the time being from national banks , trust companies , and savings banks individuals have hoarded their cash and the workingmen their earnings all of which money has been withheld and kept in hiding or in safe deposit box to the detriment of prosperity . Through the agency of the postal savings banks such money would be restored to the channels of trade , to the mutual benefit of capital and labor . I further commend to the Congress the consideration of the Postmaster General s recommendation for an extension of the parcel post , especially on the rural routes . There are now 38 , 215 rural routes , serving nearly 15 , 000 , 000 people who do not have the advantages of the inhabitants of cities in obtaining their supplies . These recommendations have been drawn up to benefit the farmer and the country storekeeper otherwise , I should not favor them , for I believe that it is good policy for our Government to do everything possible to aid the small town and the country district . It is desirable that the country merchant should not be crushed out . The fourth class postmasters convention has passed a very strong resolution in favor of placing the fourth class postmasters under the civil service law . The Administration has already put into effect the policy of refusing to remove any fourth class postmasters save for reasons connected with the good of the service and it is endeavoring so far as possible to remove them from the domain of partisan politics . It would be a most desirable thing to put the fourth class postmasters in the classified service . It is possible that this might be done without Congressional action , but , as the matter is debatable , I earnestly recommend that the Congress enact a law providing that they be included under the civil service law and put in the classified service . Oklahoma has become a State , standing on a full equality with her elder sisters , and her future is assured by her great natural resources . The duty of the National Government to guard the personal and property rights of the Indians within her borders remains of course unchanged . I reiterate my recommendations of last year as regards Alaska . Some form of local self government should be provided , as simple and inexpensive as possible it is impossible for the Congress to devote the necessary time to all the little details of necessary Alaskan legislation . Road building and railway building should be encouraged . The Governor of Alaska should begiven an ample appropriation wherewith to organize a force to preserve the public peace . Whisky selling to the natives should be made a felony . The coal land laws should be changed so as to meet the peculiar needs of the Territory . This should be attended to at once for the present laws permit individuals to locate large areas of the public domain for speculative purposes and cause an immense amount of trouble , fraud , and litigation . There should be another judicial division established . As early as possible lighthouses and buoys should be established as aids to navigation , especially in and about Prince William Sound , and the survey of the coast completed . There is need of liberal appropriations for lighting and buoying the southern coast and improving the aids to navigation in southeastern Alaska . One of the great industries of Alaska , as of Puget Sound and the Columbia , is salmon fishing . Gradually , by reason of lack of proper laws , this industry is being ruined it should now be taken in charge , and effectively protected , by the United States Government . The courage and enterprise of the citizens of the farnorth west in their projected Alaskan Yukon Pacific Exposition , to be held in 1909 , should receive liberal encouragement . This exposition is not sentimental in its conception , but seeks to exploit the natural resources of Alaska and to promote the commerce , trade , and industry of the Pacific States with their neighboring States and with our insular possessions and the neighboring countries of the Pacific . The exposition asks no loan from the Congress but seeks appropriations for National exhibits and exhibits of the western dependencies of the General Government . The State of Washington and the city of Seattle have shown the characteristic western enterprise in large donations for the conduct of this exposition in which other States are lending generous assistance . The unfortunate failure of the shipping bill at the last session of the last Congress was followed by the taking off of certain Pacific steamships , which has greatly hampered the movement of passengers between Hawaii and the mainland . Unless the Congress is prepared by positive encouragement to secure proper facilities in the way of shipping between Hawaii and the mainland , then the coastwise shipping laws should be so far relaxed as to prevent Hawaii suffering as it is now suffering . I again call your attention to the capital importance from every standpoint of making Pearl Harbor available for the largest deep water vessels , and of suitably fortifying the islan The Secretary of War has gone to the Philippines . On his return I shall submit to you his report on the islands . I again recommend that the rights of citizenship be conferred upon the people of Porto Rico . A bureau of mines should be created under the control and direction of the Secretary of the Interior the bureau to have power to collect statistics and make investigations in all matters pertaining to mining and particularly to the accidents and dangers of the industry . If this can not now be done , at least additional appropriations should be given the Interior Department to be used for the study of mining conditions , for the prevention of fraudulent mining schemes , for carrying on the work of mapping the mining districts , for studying methods for minimizing the accidents and dangers in the industry in short , to aid in all proper ways the development of the mining industry . I strongly recommend to the Congress to provide funds for keeping up the Hermitage , the home of Andrew Jackson these funds to be used through the existing Hermitage Association for the preservation of a historic building which should ever be dear to Americans . I further recommend that a naval monument be established in the Vicksburg National Park . This national park gives a unique opportunity for commemorating the deeds of those gallant men who fought on water , no less than of those who fought on land , in the great civil War . Legislation should be enacted at the present session of the Congress for the Thirteenth Census . The establishment of the permanent Census Bureau affords the opportunity for a better census than we have ever had , but in order to realize the full advantage of the permanent organization , ample time must be given for preparation . There is a constantly growing interest in this country in the question of the public health . At last the public mind is awake to the fact that many diseases , notably tuberculosis , are National scourges . The work of the State and city boards of health should be supplemented by a constantly increasing interest on the part of the National Government . The Congress has already provided a bureau of public health and has provided for a hygienic laboratory . There are other valuable laws relating to the public health connected with the various departments . This whole branch of the Government should be strengthened and aided in every way . I call attention to two Government commissions which I have appointed and which have already done excellent work . The first of these has to do with the organization of the scientific work of the Government , which has grown up wholly without plan and is in consequence so unwisely distributed among the Executive Departments that much of its effect is lost for the lack of proper coordination . This commission s chief object is to introduce a planned and orderly development and operation in the place of the ill assorted and often ineffective grouping and methods of work which have prevailed . This can not be done without legislation , nor would it be feasible to deal in detail with so complex an administrative problem by specific provisions of law . I recommend that the President be given authority to concentrate related lines of work and reduce duplication by Executive order through transfer and consolidation of lines of work . The second committee , that on Department methods , was instructed to investigate and report upon the changes needed to place the conduct of the executive force of the Government on the most economical and effective basis in the light of the best modern business practice . The committee has made very satisfactory progress . Antiquated practices and bureaucratic ways have been abolished , and a general renovation of departmental methods has been inaugurated . All that can be done by Executive order has already been accomplished or will be put into effect in the near future . The work of the main committee and its several assistant committees has produced a wholesome awakening on the part of the great body of officers and employees engaged in Government work . In nearly every Department and office there has been a careful self inspection for the purpose of remedying any defects before they could be made the subject of adverse criticism . This has led individuals to a wider study of the work on which they were engaged , and this study has resulted in increasing their efficiency in their respective lines of work . There are recommendations of special importance from the committee on the subject of personnel and the classification of salaries which will require legislative action before they can be put into effect . It is my intention to submit to the Congress in the near future a special message on those subjects . Under our form of government voting is not merely a right but a duty , and , moreover , a fundamental and necessary duty if a man is to be a good citizen . It is well to provide that corporations shall not contribute to Presidential or National campaigns , and furthermore to provide for the publication of both contributions and expenditures . There is , however , always danger in laws of this kind , which from their very nature are difficult of enforcement the danger being lest they be obeyed only by the honest , and disobeyed by the unscrupulous , so as to act only as a penalty upon honest men . Moreover , no such law would hamper an unscrupulous man of unlimited means from buying his own way into office . There is a very radical measure which would , I believe , work a substantial improvement in our system of conducting a campaign , although I am well aware that it will take some time for people so to familiarize themselves with such a proposal as to be willing to consider its adoption . The need for collecting large campaign funds would vanish if Congress provided an appropriation for the proper and legitimate expenses of each of the great national parties , an appropriation ample enough to meet the necessity for thorough organization and machinery , which requires a large expenditure of money . Then the stipulation should be made that no party receiving campaign funds from the Treasury should accept more than a fixed amount from any individual subscriber or donor and the necessary publicity for receipts and expenditures could without difficulty be provided . There should be a National gallery of art established in the capital city of this country . This is important not merely to the artistic but to the material welfare of the country and the people are to be congratulated on the fact that the movement to establish such a gallery is taking definite form under the guidance of the Smithsonian Institution . So far from there being a tariff on works of art brought into the country , their importation should be encouraged in every way . There have been no sufficient collections of objects of art by the Government , and what collections have been acquired are scattered and are generally placed in unsuitable and imperfectly lighted galleries . The Biological Survey is quietly working for the good of our agricultural interests , and is an excellent example of a Government bureau which conducts original scientific research the findings of which are of much practical utility . For more than twenty years it has studied the food habits of birds and mammals that are injurious or beneficial to agriculture , horticulture , and forestry has distributed illustrated bulletins on the subject , and has labored to secure legislative protection for the beneficial species . The cotton boll weevil , which has recently overspread the cotton belt of Texas and is steadily extending its range , is said to cause an annual loss of about 3 , 000 , 000 . The Biological Survey has ascertained and gives wide publicity to the fact that at least 43 kinds of birds prey upon this destructive insect . It has discovered that 57 species of birds feed upon scale insects dreaded enemies of the fruit grower . It has shown that woodpeckers as a class , by destroying the larvae of wood boring insects , are so essential to tree life that it is doubtful if our forests could exist without them . It has shown that cuckoos and orioles are the natural enemies of the leaf eating caterpillars that destroy our shade and fruit trees that our quails and sparrows consume annually hundreds of tons of seeds of noxious weeds that hawks and owls as a class excepting the few that kill poultry and game birds are markedly beneficial , spending their lives in catching grasshoppers , mice , and other pests that prey upon the products of husbandry . It has conducted field experiments for the purpose of devising and perfecting simple methods for holding in check the hordes of destructive rodents rats , mice , rabbits , gophers , prairie dogs , and ground squirrels which annually destroy crops worth many millions of dollars and it has published practical directions for the destruction of wolves and coyotes on the stock ranges of the West , resulting during the past year in an estimated saving of cattle and sheep valued at upwards of a million dollars . It has inaugurated a system of inspection at the principal ports of entry on both Atlantic and Pacific coasts by means of which the introduction of noxious mammals and birds is prevented , thus keeping out the mongoose and certain birds which are as much to be dreaded as the previously introduced English sparrow and the house rats and mice . In the interest of game protection it has cooperated with local officials in every State in the Union , has striven to promote uniform legislation in the several States , has rendered important service in enforcing the Federal law regulating interstate traffic in game , and has shown bow game protection may be made to yield a large revenue to the State a revenue amounting in the case of Illinois to 128 , 000 in a single year . The Biological Survey has explored the faunas and floras of America with reference to the distribution of animals and plants it has defined and mapped the natural life areas areas in which , by reason of prevailing climatic conditions , certain kinds of animals and plants occur and has pointed out the adaptability of these areas to the cultivation of particular crops . The results of these investigations are not only of high educational value but are worth each year to the progressive farmers of the country many times the cost of maintaining the Survey , which , it may be added , is exceedingly small . I recommend to Congress that this bureau , whose usefulness is seriously handicapped by lack of funds , be granted an appropriation in some degree commensurate with the importance of the work it is doing . I call your especial attention to the unsatisfactory condition of our foreign mail service , which , because of the lack of American steamship lines is now largely done through foreign lines , and which , particularly so far as South and Central America are concerned , is done in a manner which constitutes a serious barrier to the extension of our commerce . The time has come , in my judgment , to set to work seriously to make our ocean mail service correspond more closely with our recent commercial and political development . A beginning was made by the ocean mail act of March 3 , 1891 , but even at that time the act was known to be inadequate in various particulars . Since that time events have moved rapidly in our history . We have acquired Hawaii , the Philippines , and lesser islands in the Pacific . We are steadily prosecuting the great work of uniting at the Isthmus the waters of the Atlantic and the Pacific . To a greater extent than seemed probable even a dozen years ago , we may look to an American future on the sea worthy of the traditions of our past . As the first step in that direction , and the step most feasible at the present time , I recommend the extension of the ocean mail act of 1891 . This act has stood for some years free from successful criticism of its principle and purpose . It was based on theories of the obligations of a great maritime nation , undisputed in our own land and followed by other nations since the beginning of steam navigation . Briefly those theories are , that it is the duty of a first class Power so far as practicable to carry its ocean mails under its own flag that the fast ocean steamships and their crews , required for such mail service , are valuable auxiliaries to the sea power of a nation . Furthermore , the construction of such steamships insures the maintenance in an efficient condition of the shipyards in which our battleships must be built . The expenditure of public money for the Performance of such necessary functions of government is certainly warranted , nor is it necessary to dwell upon the incidental benefits to our foreign commerce , to the shipbuilding industry , and to ship owning and navigation which will accompany the discharge of these urgent public duties , though they , too , should have weight . The only serious question is whether at this time we can afford to improve our ocean mail service as it should be improved . All doubt on this subject is removed by the reports of the Post Office Department . For the fiscal year ended June 30 , 1907 , that Department estimates that the postage collected on the articles exchanged with foreign countries other than Canada and Mexico amounted to 6 , 579 , 043 . 48 , or 3 , 637 , 226 . 81 more than the net cost of the service exclusive of the cost of transporting the articles between the United States exchange post offices and the United States post offices at which they were mailed or delivered . In other words , the Government of the United States , having assumed a monopoly of carrying the mails for the people , making a profit of over 3 , 600 , 000 by rendering a cheap and inefficient service . That profit I believe should be devoted to strengthening maritime power in those directions where it will best promote our prestige . The country is familiar with the facts of our maritime impotence in the harbors of the great and friendly Republics of South America . Following the failure of the shipbuilding bill we lost our only American line of steamers to Australasia , and that loss on the Pacific has become a serious embarrassment to the people of Hawaii , and has wholly cut off the Samoan islands from regular communication with the Pacific coast . Puget Sound , in the year , has lost over half four out of seven of its American steamers trading with the Orient . We now pay under the act of 1891 4 a statute mile outward to 20 knot American mail steamships , built according to naval plans , available as cruisers , and manned by Americans . Steamships of that speed are confined exclusively to trans Atlantic trade with New York . To steamships of 16 knots or over only 2 a mile can be paid , and it is steamships of this speed and type which are needed to meet the requirements of mail service to South America , Asia including the Philippines , and Australia . I strongly recommend , therefore , a simple amendment to the ocean mail act of 1891 which shall authorize the Postmaster General in his discretion to enter into contracts for the transportation of mails to the Republics of South America , to Asia , the Philippines , and Australia at a rate not to exceed 4 a mile for steamships of 16 knots speed or upwards , subject to the restrictions and obligations of the act of 1891 . The profit of 3 , 600 , 000 which has been mentioned will fully cover the maximum annual expenditure involved in this recommendation , and it is believed will in time establish the lines so urgently needed . The proposition involves no new principle , but permits the efficient discharge of public functions now inadequately performed or not performed at all . Not only there is not now , but there never has been , any other nation in the world so wholly free from the evils of militarism as is ours . There never has been any other large nation , not even China , which for so long a period has had relatively to its numbers so small a regular army as has ours . Never at any time in our history has this Nation suffered from militarism or been in the remotest danger of suffering from militarism . Never at any time of our history has the Regular Army been of a size which caused the slightest appreciable tax upon the tax paying citizens of the Nation . Almost always it has been too small in size and underpaid . Never in our entire history has the Nation suffered in the least particular because too much care has been given to the Army , too much prominence given it , too much money spent upon it , or because it has been too large . But again and again we have suffered because enough care has not been given to it , because it has been too small , because there has not been sufficient preparation in advance for possible war . Every foreign war in which we have engaged has cost us many times the amount which , if wisely expended during the preceding years of peace on the Regular Army , would have insured the war ending in but a fraction of the time and but for a fraction of the cost that was actually the case . As a Nation we have always been shortsighted in providing for the efficiency of the Army in time of peace . It is nobody s especial interest to make such provision and no one looks ahead to war at any period , no matter how remote , as being a serious possibility while an improper economy , or rather niggardliness , can be practiced at the expense of the Army with the certainty that those practicing it will not be called to account therefor , but that the price will be paid by the unfortunate persons who happen to be in office when a war does actually come . I think it is only lack of foresight that troubles us , not any hostility to the Army . There are , of course , foolish people who denounce any care of the Army or Navy as militarism , but I do not think that these people are numerous . This country has to contend now , and has had to contend in the past , with many evils , and there is ample scope for all who would work for reform . But there is not one evil that now exists , or that ever has existed in this country , which is , or ever has been , owing in the smallest part to militarism . Declamation against militarism has no more serious place in an earnest and intelligent movement for righteousness in this country than declamation against the worship of Baal or Astaroth . It is declamation against a non existent evil , one which never has existed in this country , and which has not the slightest chance of appearing here . We are glad to help in any movement for international peace , but this is because we sincerely believe that it is our duty to help all such movements provided they are sane and rational , and not because there is any tendency toward militarism on our part which needs to be cured . The evils we have to fight are those in connection with industrialism , not militarism . Industry is always necessary , just as war is sometimes necessary . Each has its price , and industry in the United States now exacts , and has always exacted , a far heavier toll of death than all our wars put together . The statistics of the railroads of this country for the year ended June 30 , 1906 , the last contained in the annual statistical report of the Interstate Commerce Commission , show in that one year a total of 108 , 324 casualties to persons , of which 10 , 618 represent the number of persons killed . In that wonderful hive of human activity , Pittsburg , the deaths due to industrial accidents in 1906 were 919 , all the result of accidents in mills , mines or on railroads . For the entire country , therefore , it is safe to say that the deaths due to industrial accidents aggregate in the neighborhood of twenty thousand a year . Such a record makes the death rate in all our foreign wars utterly trivial by comparison . The number of deaths in battle in all the foreign wars put together , for the last century and a quarter , aggregate considerably less than one year s death record for our industries . A mere glance at these figures is sufficient to show the absurdity of the outcry against militarism . But again and again in the past our little Regular Army has rendered service literally vital to the country , and it may at any time have to do so in the future . Its standard of efficiency and instruction is higher now than ever in the past . But it is too small . There are not enough officers and it is impossible to secure enough enlisted men . We should maintain in peace a fairly complete skeleton of a large army . A great and long continued war would have to be fought by volunteers . But months would pass before any large body of efficient volunteers could be put in the field , and our Regular Army should be large enough to meet any immediate need . In particular it is essential that we should possess a number of extra officers trained in peace to perform efficiently the duties urgently required upon the breaking out of war . The Medical Corps should be much larger than the needs of our Regular Army in war . Yet at present it is smaller than the needs of the service demand even in peace . The Spanish war occurred less than ten years ago . The chief loss we suffered in it was by disease among the regiments which never left the country . At the moment the Nation seemed deeply impressed by this fact yet seemingly it has already been forgotten , for not the slightest effort has been made to prepare a medical corps of sufficient size to prevent the repetition of the same disaster on a much larger scale if we should ever be engaged in a serious conflict . The trouble in the Spanish war was not with the then existing officials of the War Department it was with the representatives of the people as a whole who , for the preceding thirty years , had declined to make the necessary provision for the Army . Unless ample provision is now made by Congress to put the Medical Corps where it should be put disaster in the next war is inevitable , and the responsibility will not lie with those then in charge of the War Department , but with those who now decline to make the necessary provision . A well organized medical corps , thoroughly trained before the advent of war in all the important administrative duties of a military sanitary corps , is essential to the efficiency of any large army , and especially of a large volunteer army . Such knowledge of medicine and surgery as is possessed by the medical profession generally will not alone suffice to make an efficient military surgeon . He must have , in addition , knowledge of the administration and sanitation of large field hospitals and camps , in order to safeguard the health and lives of men intrusted in great numbers to his care . A bill has long been pending before the Congress for the reorganization of the Medical Corps its passage is urgently needed . But the Medical Department is not the only department for which increased provision should be made . The rate of pay for the officers should be greatly increased there is no higher type of citizen than the American regular officer , and he should have a fair reward for his admirable work . There should be a relatively even greater increase in the pay for the enlisted men . In especial provision should be made for establishing grades equivalent to those of warrant officers in the Navy which should be open to the enlisted men who serve sufficiently long and who do their work well . Inducements should be offered sufficient to encourage really good men to make the Army a life occupation . The prime needs of our present Army is to secure and retain competent noncommissioned officers . This difficulty rests fundamentally on the question of pay . The noncommissioned officer does not correspond with an unskilled laborer he corresponds to the best type of skilled workman or to the subordinate official in civil institutions . Wages have greatly increased in outside occupations in the last forty years and the pay of the soldier , like the pay of the officers , should be proportionately increased . The first sergeant of a company , if a good man , must be one of such executive and administrative ability , and such knowledge of his trade , as to be worth far more than we at present pay him . The same is true of the regimental sergeant major . These men should be men who had fully resolved to make the Army a life occupation and they should be able to look forward to ample reward while only men properly qualified should be given a chance to secure these final rewards . The increase over the present pay need not be great in the lower grades for the first one or two enlistments , but the increase should be marked for the noncommissioned officers of the upper grades who serve long enough to make it evident that they intend to stay permanently in the Army , while additional pay should be given for high qualifications in target practice . The position of warrant officer should be established and there should be not only an increase of pay , but an increase of privileges and allowances and dignity , so as to make the grade open to noncommissioned officers capable of filling them desirably from every standpoint . The rate of desertion in our Army now in time of peace is alarming . The deserter should be treated by public opinion as a man guilty of the greatest crime while on the other hand the man who serves steadily in the Army should be treated as what he is , that is , as preeminently one of the best citizens of this Republic . After twelve years service in the Army , my own belief is that the man should be given a preference according to his ability for certain types of office over all civilian applicants without examination . This should also apply , of course , to the men who have served twelve years in the Navy . A special corps should be provided to do the manual labor now necessarily demanded of the privates themselves . Among the officers there should be severe examinations to weed out the unfit up to the grade of major . From that position on appointments should be solely by selection and it should be understood that a man of merely average capacity could never get beyond the position of major , while every man who serves in any grade a certain length of time prior to promotion to the next grade without getting the promotion to the next grade should be forthwith retired . The practice marches and field maneuvers of the last two or three years have been invaluable to the Army . They should be continued and extended . A rigid and not a perfunctory examination of physical capacity has been provided for the higher grade officers . This will work well . Unless an officer has a good physique , unless he can stand hardship , ride well , and walk fairly , he is not fit for any position , even after he has become a colonel . Before he has become a colonel the need for physical fitness in the officers is almost as great as in the enlisted man . I hope speedily to see introduced into the Army a far more rigid and thoroughgoing test of horsemanship for all field officers than at present . There should be a Chief of Cavalry just as there is a Chief of Artillery . Perhaps the most important of all legislation needed for the benefit of the Army is a law to equalize and increase the pay of officers and enlisted men of the Army , Navy , Marine Corps , and Revenue Cutter Service . Such a bill has been prepared , which it is hoped will meet with your favorable consideration . The next most essential measure is to authorize a number of extra officers as mentioned above . To make the Army more attractive to enlisted men , it is absolutely essential to create a service corps , such as exists in nearly every modern army in the world , to do the skilled and unskilled labor , inseparably connected with military administration , which is now exacted , without just compensation , of enlisted men who voluntarily entered the Army to do service of an altogether different kind . There are a number of other laws necessary to so organize the Army as to promote its efficiency and facilitate its rapid expansion in time of war but the above are the most important . It was hoped The Hague Conference might deal with the question of the limitation of armaments . But even before it had assembled informal inquiries had developed that as regards naval armaments , the only ones in which this country had any interest , it was hopeless to try to devise any plan for which there was the slightest possibility of securing the assent of the nations gathered at The Hague . No plan was even proposed which would have had the assent of more than one first class Power outside of the United States . The only plan that seemed at all feasible , that of limiting the size of battleships , met with no favor at all . It is evident , therefore , that it is folly for this Nation to base any hope of securing peace on any international agreement as to the limitations of armaments . Such being the fact it would be most unwise for us to stop the upbuilding of our Navy . To build one battleship of the best and most advanced type a year would barely keep our fleet up to its present force . This is not enough . In my judgment , we should this year provide for four battleships . But it is idle to build battleships unless in addition to providing the men , and the means for thorough training , we provide the auxiliaries for them , unless we provide docks , the coaling stations , the colliers and supply ships that they need . We are extremely deficient in coaling stations and docks on the Pacific , and this deficiency should not longer be permitted to exist . Plenty of torpedo boats and destroyers should be built . Both on the Atlantic and Pacific coasts , fortifications of the best type should be provided for all our greatest harbors . We need always to remember that in time of war the Navy is not to be used to defend harbors and sea coast cities we should perfect our system of coast fortifications . The only efficient use for the Navy is for offense . The only way in which it can efficiently protect our own coast against the possible action of a foreign navy is by destroying that foreign navy . For defense against a hostile fleet which actually attacks them , the coast cities must depend upon their forts , mines , torpedoes , submarines , and torpedo boats and destroyers . All of these together are efficient for defensive purposes , but they in no way supply the place of a thoroughly efficient navy capable of acting on the offensive for parrying never yet won a fight . It can only be won by hard hitting , and an aggressive sea going navy alone can do this hard hitting of the offensive type . But the forts and the like are necessary so that the Navy may be footloose . In time of war there is sure to be demand , under pressure , of fright , for the ships to be scattered so as to defend all kind of ports . Under penalty of terrible disaster , this demand must be refused . The ships must be kept together , and their objective made the enemies fleet . If fortifications are sufficiently strong , no modern navy will venture to attack them , so long as the foe has in existence a hostile navy of anything like the same size or efficiency . But unless there exists such a navy then the fortifications are powerless by themselves to secure the victory . For of course the mere deficiency means that any resolute enemy can at his leisure combine all his forces upon one point with the certainty that he can take it . Until our battle fleet is much larger than at present it should never be split into detachments so far apart that they could not in event of emergency be speedily united . Our coast line is on the Pacific just as much as on the Atlantic . The interests of California , Oregon , and Washington are as emphatically the interests of the whole Union as those of Maine and New York , of Louisiana and Texas . The battle fleet should now and then be moved to the Pacific , just as at other times it should be kept in the Atlantic . When the Isthmian Canal is built the transit of the battle fleet from one ocean to the other will be comparatively easy . Until it is built I earnestly hope that the battle fleet will be thus shifted between the two oceans every year or two . The marksmanship on all our ships has improved phenomenally during the last five years . Until within the last two or three years it was not possible to train a battle fleet in squadron maneuvers under service conditions , and it is only during these last two or three years that the training under these conditions has become really effective . Another and most necessary stride in advance is now being taken . The battle fleet is about starting by the Straits of Magellan to visit the Pacific coast . . Sixteen battleships are going under the command of Rear Admiral Evans , while eight armored cruisers and two other battleships will meet him at San Francisco , whither certain torpedo destroyers are also going . No fleet of such size has ever made such a voyage , and it will be of very great educational use to all engaged in it . The only way by which to teach officers and men how to handle the fleet so as to meet every possible strain and emergency in time of war is to have them practice under similar conditions in time of peace . Moreover , the only way to find out our actual needs is to perform in time of peace whatever maneuvers might be necessary in time of war . After war is declared it is too late to find out the needs that means to invite disaster . This trip to the Pacific will show what some of our needs are and will enable us to provide for them . The proper place for an officer to learn his duty is at sea , and the only way in which a navy can ever be made efficient is by practice at sea , under all the conditions which would have to be met if war existed . I bespeak the most liberal treatment for the officers and enlisted men of the Navy . It is true of them , as likewise of the officers and enlisted men of the Army , that they form a body whose interests should be close to the heart of every good American . In return the most rigid performance of duty should be exacted from them . The reward should be ample when they do their best and nothing less than their best should be tolerated . It is idle to hope for the best results when the men in the senior grades come to those grades late in life and serve too short a time in them . Up to the rank of lieutenant commander promotion in the Navy should be as now , by seniority , subject , however , to such rigid tests as would eliminate the unfit . After the grade of lieutenant commander , that is , when we come to the grade of command rank , the unfit should be eliminated in such manner that only the conspicuously fit would remain , and sea service should be a principal test of fitness . Those who are passed by should , after a certain length of service in their respective grades , be retired . Of a given number of men it may well be that almost all would make good lieutenants and most of them good lieutenant commanders , while only a minority be fit to be captains , and but three or four to be admirals . Those who object to promotion otherwise than by mere seniority should reflect upon the elementary fact that no business in private life could be successfully managed if those who enter at the lowest rungs of the ladder should each in turn , if he lived , become the head of the firm , its active director , and retire after he had held the position a few months . On its face such a scheme is an absurdity . Chances for improper favoritism can be minimized by a properly formed board such as the board of last June , which did such conscientious and excellent work in elimination . If all that ought to be done can not now be done , at least let a beginning be made . In my last three annual Messages , and in a special Message to the last Congress , the necessity for legislation that will cause officers of the line of the Navy to reach the grades of captain and rear admiral at less advanced ages and which will cause them to have more sea training and experience in the highly responsible duties of those grades , so that they may become thoroughly skillful in handling battleships , divisions , squadrons , and fleets in action , has been fully explained and urgently recommended . Upon this subject the Secretary of the Navy has submitted detailed and definite recommendations which have received my approval , and which , if enacted into law , will accomplish what is immediately necessary , and will , as compared with existing law , make a saving of more than five millions of dollars during the next seven years . The navy personnel act of 1899 has accomplished all that was expected of it in providing satisfactory periods of service in the several subordinate grades , from the grade of ensign to the grade of lieutenant commander , but the law is inadequate in the upper grades and will continue to be inadequate on account of the expansion of the personnel since its enactment . Your attention is invited to the following quotations from the report of the personnel board of 1906 , of which the Assistant Secretary of the Navy was president Congress has authorized a considerable increase in the number of midshipmen at the Naval Academy , and these midshipmen upon graduation are promoted to ensign and lieutenant junior grade . But no provision has been made for a corresponding increase in the upper grades , the result being that the lower grades will become so congested that a midshipman now in one of the lowest classes at Annapolis may possibly not be promoted to lieutenant until he is between 45 and 50 years of age . So it will continue under the present law , congesting at the top and congesting at the bottom . The country fails to get from the officers of the service the best that is in them by not providing opportunity for their normal development and training . The board believes that this works a serious detriment to the efficiency of the Navy and is a real menace to the public safety . As stated in my special Message to the last Congress I am firmly of the opinion that unless the present conditions of the higher commissioned personnel is rectified by judicious legislation the future of our Navy will be gravely compromised . It is also urgently necessary to increase the efficiency of the Medical Corps of the Navy . Special legislation to this end has already been proposed and I trust it may be enacted without delay . It must be remembered that everything done in the Navy to fit it to do well in time of war must be done in time of peace . Modern wars are short they do not last the length of time requisite to build a battleship and it takes longer to train the officers and men to do well on a battleship than it takes to build it . Nothing effective can be done for the Navy once war has begun , and the result of the war , if the combatants are otherwise equally matched , will depend upon which power has prepared best in time of peace . The United States Navy is the best guaranty the Nation has that its honor and interest will not be neglected and in addition it offers by far the best insurance for peace that can by human ingenuity be devised . I call attention to the report of the official Board of Visitors to the Naval Academy at Annapolis which has been forwarded to the Congress . The report contains this paragraph Such revision should be made of the courses of study and methods of conducting and marking examinations as will develop and bring out the average all round ability of the midshipman rather than to give him prominence in any one particular study . The fact should be kept in mind that the Naval Academy is not a university but a school , the primary object of which is to educate boys to be efficient naval officers . Changes in curriculum , therefore , should be in the direction of making the course of instruction less theoretical and more practical . No portion of any future class should be graduated in advance of the full four years course , and under no circumstances should the standard of instruction be lowered . The Academy in almost all of its departments is now magnificently equipped , and it would be very unwise to make the course of instruction less exacting than it is to day . Acting upon this suggestion I designated three seagoing officers , Capt . Richard Wainwright , Commander Robert Griffin , and Lieut . Commander Albert Key , all graduates of the Academy , to investigate conditions and to recommend to me the best method of carrying into effect this general recommendation . These officers performed the duty promptly and intelligently , and , under the personal direction of Capt . Charles Badger , Superintendent of the Academy , such of the proposed changes as were deemed to be at present advisable were put into effect at the beginning of the academic year , October 1 , last . The results , I am confident , will be most beneficial to the Academy , to the midshipmen , and to the Navy . In foreign affairs this country s steady policy is to behave toward other nations as a strong and self respecting man should behave toward the other men with whom he is brought into contact . In other words , our aim is disinterestedly to help other nations where such help can be wisely given without the appearance of meddling with what does not concern us to be careful to act as a good neighbor and at the same time , in good natured fashion , to make it evident that we do not intend to be imposed upon . The Second International Peace Conference was convened at The Hague on the 15th of June last and remained in session until the 18th of October . For the first time the representatives of practically all the civilized countries of the world united in a temperate and kindly discussion of the methods by which the causes of war might be narrowed and its injurious effects reduced . Although the agreements reached in the Conference did not in any direction go to the length hoped for by the more sanguine , yet in many directions important steps were taken , and upon every subject on the programme there was such full and considerate discussion as to justify the belief that substantial progress has been made toward further agreements in the future . Thirteen conventions were agreed upon embodying the definite conclusions which had been reached , and resolutions were adopted marking the progress made in matters upon which agreement was not yet sufficiently complete to make conventions practicable . The delegates of the United States were instructed to favor an agreement for obligatory arbitration , the establishment of a permanent court of arbitration to proceed judicially in the hearing and decision of international causes , the prohibition of force for the collection of contract debts alleged to be due from governments to citizens of other countries until after arbitration as to the justice and amount of the debt and the time and manner of payment , the immunity of private property at sea , the better definition of the rights of neutrals , and , in case any measure to that end should be introduced , the limitation of armaments . In the field of peaceful disposal of international differences several important advances were made . First , as to obligatory arbitration . Although the Conference failed to secure a unanimous agreement upon the details of a convention for obligatory arbitration , it did resolve as follows It is unanimous 1 In accepting the principle for obligatory arbitration 2 In declaring that certain differences , and notably those relating to the interpretation and application of international conventional stipulations are susceptible of being submitted to obligatory arbitration without any restriction . In view of the fact that as a result of the discussion the vote upon the definite treaty of obligatory arbitration , which was proposed , stood 32 in favor to 9 against the adoption of the treaty , there can be little doubt that the great majority of the countries of the world have reached a point where they are now ready to apply practically the principles thus unanimously agreed upon by the Conference . The second advance , and a very great one , is the agreement which relates to the use of force for the collection of contract debts . Your attention is invited to the paragraphs upon this subject in my Message of December , 1906 , and to the resolution of the Third American Conference at Rio in the summer of 1906 . The convention upon this subject adopted by the Conference substantially as proposed by the American delegates is as follows In order to avoid between nations armed conflicts of a purely pecuniary origin arising from contractual debts claimed of the government of one country by the government of another country to be due to its nationals , the signatory Powers agree not to have recourse to armed force for the collection of such contractual debts . However , this stipulation shall not be applicable when the debtor State refuses or leaves unanswered an offer to arbitrate , or , in case of acceptance , makes it impossible to formulate the terms of submission , or , after arbitration , fails to comply with the award rendered . It is further agreed that arbitration here contemplated shall be in conformity , as to procedure , with Chapter III of the Convention for the Pacific Settlement of International Disputes adopted at The Hague , and that it shall determine , in so far as there shall be no agreement between the parties , the justice and the amount of the debt , the time and mode of payment thereof . Such a provision would have prevented much injustice and extortion in the past , and I cannot doubt that its effect in the future will be most salutary . A third advance has been made in amending and perfecting the convention of 1899 for the voluntary settlement of international disputes , and particularly the extension of those parts of that convention which relate to commissions of inquiry . The existence of those provisions enabled the Governments of Great Britain and Russia to avoid war , notwithstanding great public excitement , at the time of the Dogger Bank incident , and the new convention agreed upon by the Conference gives practical effect to the experience gained in that inquiry . Substantial progress was also made towards the creation of a permanent judicial tribunal for the determination of international causes . There was very full discussion of the proposal for such a court and a general agreement was finally reached in favor of its creation . The Conference recommended to the signatory Powers the adoption of a draft upon which it agreed for the organization of the court , leaving to be determined only the method by which the judges should be selected . This remaining unsettled question is plainly one which time and good temper will solve . A further agreement of the first importance was that for the creation of an international prize court . The constitution , organization and procedure of such a tribunal were provided for in detail . Anyone who recalls the injustices under which this country suffered as a neutral power during the early part of the last century can not fail to see in this provision for an international prize court the great advance which the world is making towards the substitution of the rule of reason and justice in place of simple force . Not only will the international prize court be the means of protecting the interests of neutrals , but it is in itself a step towards the creation of the more general court for the hearing of international controversies to which reference has just been made . The organization and action of such a prize court can not fail to accustom the different countries to the submission of international questions to the decision of an international tribunal , and we may confidently expect the results of such submission to bring about a general agreement upon the enlargement of the practice . Numerous provisions were adopted for reducing the evil effects of war and for defining the rights and duties of neutrals . The Conference also provided for the holding of a third Conference within a period similar to that which elapsed between the First and Second Conferences . The delegates of the United States worthily represented the spirit of the American people and maintained with fidelity and ability the policy of our Government upon all the great questions discussed in the Conference . The report of the delegation , together with authenticated copies of the conventions signed , when received , will be laid before the Senate for its consideration . When we remember how difficult it is for one of our own legislative bodies , composed of citizens of the same country , speaking the same language , living under the same laws , and having the same customs , to reach an agreement , or even to secure a majority upon any difficult and important subject which is proposed for legislation , it becomes plain that the representatives of forty five different countries , speaking many different languages , accustomed to different methods of procedure , with widely diverse interests , who discussed so many different subjects and reached agreements upon so many , are entitled to grateful appreciation for the wisdom , patience , and moderation with which they have discharged their duty . The example of this temperate discussion , and the agreements and the efforts to agree , among representatives of all the nations of the earth , acting with universal recognition of the supreme obligation to promote peace , can . not fail to be a powerful influence for good in future international relations . A year ago in consequence of a revolutionary movement in Cuba which threatened the immediate return to chaos of the island , the United States intervened , sending down an army and establishing a provisional government under Governor Magoon . Absolute quiet and prosperity have returned to the island because of this action . We are now taking steps to provide for elections in the island and our expectation is within the coming year to be able to turn the island over again to government chosen by the people thereof . Cuba is at our doors . It is not possible that this Nation should permit Cuba again to sink into the condition from which we rescued it . All that we ask of the Cuban people is that they be prosperous , that they govern themselves so as to bring content , order and progress to their island , the Queen of the Antilles and our only interference has been and will be to help them achieve these results . An invitation has been extended by Japan to the Government and people of the United States to participate in a great national exposition to be held at Tokyo from April 1 to October 31 , 1912 , and in which the principal countries of the world are to be invited to take part . This is an occasion of special interest to all the nations of the world , and peculiarly so to us for it is the first instance in which such a great national exposition has been held by a great power dwelling on the Pacific and all the nations of Europe and America will , I trust , join in helping to success this first great exposition ever held by a great nation of Asia . The geographical relations of Japan and the United States as the possessors of such large portions of the coasts of the Pacific , the intimate trade relations already existing between the two countries , the warm friendship which has been maintained between them without break since the opening of Japan to intercourse with the western nations , and her increasing wealth and production , which we regard with hearty goodwill and wish to make the occasion of mutually beneficial commerce , all unite in making it eminently desirable that this invitation should be accepted . I heartily recommend such legislation as will provide in generous fashion for the representation of this Government and . its people in the proposed exposition . Action should be taken now . We are apt to underestimate the time necessary for preparation in such cases . The invitation to the French Exposition of 1900 was brought to the attention of the Congress by President Cleveland in December , 1895 and so many are the delays necessary to such proceedings that the period of font years and a half which then intervened before the exposition proved none too long for the proper preparation of the exhibits . The adoption of a new tariff by Germany , accompanied by conventions for reciprocal tariff concessions between that country and most of the other countries of continental Europe , led the German Government to ire the notice necessary to terminate the reciprocal commercial agreement with this country proclaimed July 13 , 1900 . The notice was to take effect on the 1st of March , 1906 , and in default of some other arrangements this would have left the exports from the United States to Germany subject to the general German tariff duties , from 25 to 50 per cent higher than the conventional duties imposed upon the goods of most of our competitors for German trade . Under a special agreement made between the two Governments in February , 1906 , the German Government postponed the operation of their notice until the 30th of June , 1907 . In the meantime , deeming it to be my duty to make every possible effort to prevent a tariff war between the United States and Germany arising from misunderstanding by either country of the conditions existing in the other , and acting upon the invitation of the German Government , I sent to Berlin a commission composed of competent experts in the operation and administration of the customs tariff , from the Departments of the Treasury and Commerce and Labor . This commission was engaged for several mouths in conference with a similar commission appointed by the German Government , under instructions , so far as practicable , to reach a common understanding as to all the facts regarding the tariffs of the United States and Germany material and relevant to the trade relations between the two countries . The commission reported , and upon the basis of the report , a further temporary commercial agreement was entered into by the two countries , pursuant to which , in the exercise of the authority conferred upon the President by the third section of the tariff act of July 24 , 1897 , I extended the reduced tariff rates provided for in that section to champagne and all other sparkling wines , and pursuant to which the German conventional or minimum tariff rates were extended to about 96 1 2 per cent of all the exports from the United States to Germany . This agreement is to remain in force until the 30th of June , 1908 , and until six months after notice by either party to terminate it . The agreement and the report of the commission on which it is based will be laid before the Congress for its information . This careful examination into the tariff relations between the United States and Germany involved an inquiry into certain of our methods of administration which had been the cause of much complaint on the part of German exporters . In this inquiry I became satisfied that certain vicious and unjustifiable practices had grown up in our customs administration , notably the practice of determining values of imports upon detective reports never disclosed to the persons whose interests were affected . The use of detectives , though often necessary , tends towards abuse , and should be carefully guarded . Under our practice as I found it to exist in this case , the abuse had become gross and discreditable . Under it , instead of seeking information as to the market value of merchandise from the well known and respected members of the commercial community in the country of its production , secret statements were obtained from informers and discharged employees and business rivals , and upon this kind of secret evidence the values of imported goods were frequently raised and heavy penalties were frequently imposed upon importers who were never permitted to know what the evidence was and who never had an opportunity to meet it . It is quite probable that this system tended towards an increase of the duties collected upon imported goods , but I conceive it to be a violation of law to exact more duties than the law provides , just as it is a violation to admit goods upon the payment of less than the legal rate of duty . This practice was repugnant to the spirit of American law and to American sense of justice . In the judgment of the most competent experts of the Treasury Department and the Department of Commerce and Labor it was wholly unnecessary for the due collection of the customs revenues , and the attempt to defend it merely illustrates the demoralization which naturally follows from a long continued course of reliance upon such methods . I accordingly caused the regulations governing this branch of the customs service to be modified so that values are determined upon a hearing in which all the parties interested have an opportunity to be heard and to know the evidence against them . Moreover our Treasury agents are accredited to the government of the country in which they seek information , and in Germany receive the assistance of the quasi official chambers of commerce in determining the actual market value of goods , in accordance with what I am advised to be the true construction of the law . These changes of regulations were adapted to the removal of such manifest abuses that I have not felt that they ought to be confined to our relations with Germany and I have extended their operation to all other countries which have expressed a desire to enter into similar administrative relations . I ask for authority to reform the agreement with China under which the indemnity of 1900 was fixed , by remitting and cancelling the obligation of China for the payment of all that part of the stipulated indemnity which is in excess of the sum of eleven million , six hundred and fifty five thousand , four hundred and ninety two dollars and sixty nine cents , and interest at four per cent . After the rescue of the foreign legations in Peking during the Boxer troubles in 1900 the Powers required from China the payment of equitable indemnities to the several nations , and the final protocol under which the troops were withdrawn , signed at Peking , September 7 , 1901 , fixed the amount of this indemnity allotted to the United States at over 20 , 000 , 000 , and China paid , up to and including the 1st day of June last , a little over 6 , 000 , 000 . It was the first intention of this Government at the proper time , when all claims had been presented and all expenses ascertained as fully as possible , to revise the estimates and account , and as a proof of sincere friendship for China voluntarily to release that country from its legal liability for all payments in excess of the sum which should prove to be necessary for actual indemnity to the United States and its citizens . This Nation should help in every practicable way in the education of the Chinese people , so that the vast and populous Empire of China may gradually adapt itself to modern conditions . One way of doing this is by promoting the coming of Chinese students to this country and making it attractive to them to take courses at our universities and higher educational institutions . Our educators should , so far as possible , take concerted action toward this end . On the courteous invitation of the President of Mexico , the Secretary of State visited that country in September and October and was received everywhere with the greatest kindness and hospitality . He carried from the Government of the United States to our southern neighbor a message of respect and good will and of desire for better acquaintance and increasing friendship . The response from the Government and the people of Mexico was hearty and sincere . No pains were spared to manifest the most friendly attitude and feeling toward the United States . In view of the close neighborhood of the two countries the relations which exist between Mexico and the United States are just cause for gratification . We have a common boundary of over 1 , 500 miles from the Gulf of Mexico to the Pacific . Much of it is marked only by the shifting waters of the Rio Grande . Many thousands of Mexicans are residing upon our side of the line and it is estimated that over 40 , 000 Americans are resident in Mexican territory and that American investments in Mexico amount to over seven hundred million dollars . The extraordinary industrial and commercial prosperity of Mexico has been greatly promoted by American enterprise , and Americans are sharing largely in its results . The foreign trade of the Republic already exceeds 240 , 000 , 000 per annum , and of this two thirds both of exports and imports are exchanged with the United States . Under these circumstances numerous questions necessarily arise between the two countries . These questions are always approached and disposed of in a spirit of mutual courtesy and fair dealing . Americans carrying on business in Mexico testify uniformly to the kindness and consideration with which they are treated and their sense of the security of their property and enterprises under the wise administration of the great statesman who has so long held the office of Chief Magistrate of that Republic . The two Governments have been uniting their efforts for a considerable time past to aid Central America in attaining the degree of peace and order which have made possible the prosperity of the northern ports of the Continent . After the peace between Guatemala , Honduras , and Salvador , celebrated under the circumstances described in my last Message , a new war broke out between the Republics of Nicaragua , Honduras , and Salvador . The effort to compose this new difficulty has resulted in the acceptance of the joint suggestion of the Presidents of Mexico and of the United States for a general peace conference between all the countries of Central America . On the 17th day of September last a protocol was signed between the representatives of the five Central American countries accredited to this Government agreeing upon a conference to be held in the City of Washington in order to devise the means of preserving the good relations among said Republics and bringing about permanent peace in those countries . The protocol includes the expression of a wish that the Presidents of the United States and Mexico should appoint representatives to lend their good and impartial offices in a purely friendly way toward the realization of the objects of the conference . The conference is now in session and will have our best wishes and , where it is practicable , our friendly assistance . One of the results of the Pan American Conference at Rio Janeiro in the summer of 1906 has been a great increase in the activity and usefulness of the International Bureau of American Republics . That institution , which includes all the American Republics in its membership and brings all their representatives together , is doing a really valuable work in informing the people of the United States about the other Republics and in making the United States known to them . Its action is now limited by appropriations determined when it was doing a work on a much smaller scale and rendering much less valuable service . I recommend that the contribution of this Government to the expenses of the Bureau be made commensurate with its increased work .<speech_sep>To the Senate and House of Representatives I deem it important before the adjournment of the present session of Congress to call attention to the following expressions in the message which in the discharge of the duty imposed upon me by the Constitution I sent to Congress on the first Tuesday of December last Elsewhere I have discussed the question of reciprocity . In the case of Cuba , however , there are weighty reasons of morality and of national interest why the policy should be held to have a peculiar application , and I most earnestly ask your attention to the wisdom , indeed to the vital need , of providing for a substantial reduction in the tariff duties on Cuban imports into the United States . Cuba has in her Constitution affirmed what we desired , that she should stand , in international matters , in closer and more friendly relations with us than with any other power and we are bound by every consideration of honor and expediency to pass commercial measures in the interest of her material well being . This recommendation was merely giving practical effect to President McKinley s words , when , in his messages of December 5 , 1898 , and December 5 , 1899 , he wrote It is important that our relations with this people of Cuba shall be of the most friendly character and our commercial relations close and reciprocal . We have accepted a trust , the fulfillment of which calls for the sternest integrity of purpose and the exercise of the highest wisdom . The new Cuba yet to arise from the ashes of the past must needs be bound to us by ties of singular intimacy and strength if its enduring welfare is to be assured . The greatest blessing which can come to Cuba is the restoration of her agricultural and industrial prosperity . Yesterday , June 12 , I received , by cable from the American minister in Cuba , a most earnest appeal from President Palms for legislative relief before it is too late and his country financially ruined . The granting of reciprocity with Cuba is a proposition which stands entirely alone . The reasons for it far outweigh those for granting reciprocity with any other nation , and are entirely consistent with preserving intact the protective system under which this country has thriven so marvelously . The present tariff law was designed to promote the adoption of such a reciprocity treaty , and expressly provided for a reduction not to exceed 20 per cent upon goods coming from a particular country , leaving the tariff rates on the same articles unchanged as regards all other countries . Objection has been made to the granting of the reduction on the ground that the substantial benefit would not go to the agricultural producer of sugar , but would inure to the American sugar refiners . In my judgment provision can and should be made which will guarantee us against this possibility , without having recourse to a measure of doubtful policy , such as a bounty in the form of a rebate . The question as to which if any of the different schedules of the tariff ought most properly to be revised does not enter into this matter in any way or shape . We are concerned with getting a friendly reciprocal arrangement with Cuba . This arrangement applies to all the articles that Cuba grows or produces . It is not in our power to determine what these articles shall be , and any discussion of the tariff as it affects special schedules or countries other than Cuba is wholly aside from the subject matter to which I call your attention . Some of our citizens oppose the lowering of the tariff on Cuban products just as three years ago they opposed the admission of the Hawaiian Islands lest free trade with them might ruin certain of our interests here . In the actual event their fears proved baseless as regards Hawaii , and their apprehensions as to the damage to any industry of our own because of the proposed measure of reciprocity with Cuba seem to me equally baseless . In my judgment no American industry will be hurt , and many American industries will be benefited by the proposed action . It is to our advantage as a nation that the growing Cuban market should be controlled by American producers . The events following the war with Spain , and the prospective building of the Isthmian Canal , render it certain that we must take in the future a far greater interest than hitherto in what happens throughout the West Indies , Central America , and the adjacent coasts and waters . We expect Cuba to treat us on an exceptional footing politically , and we should put her in the same exceptional position economically . The proposed action is in line with the course we have pursued as regards all the islands with which we have been brought into relations of varying intimacy by the Spanish war . Puerto Rico and Hawaii have been included within our tariff lines , to their great benefit as well as ours , and without any of the feared detriment to our own industries . The Philippines , which stand in a different relation , have been granted substantial tariff concessions . Cuba is an independent republic , but a republic which has assumed certain special obligations as regards her international position in compliance with our request . I ask for her certain special economic concessions in return these economic concessions to benefit us as well as her . There are few brighter pages in American history than the page which tells of our dealings with Cuba during the past four years . On her behalf we waged a war of which the mainspring was generous indignation against oppression and we have kept faith absolutely . It is earnestly to be hoped that we will complete in the same spirit the record so well begun , and show in our dealings with Cuba that steady continuity of policy which it is essential for our nation to establish in foreign affairs if we desire to play well our part as a world power . We are a wealthy and powerful nation Cuba is a young republic , still weak , who owes to us her birth , whose whole future , whose very life , must depend on our attitude toward her . I ask that we help her as she struggles upward along the painful and difficult road of self governing independence . I ask this aid for her , because she is weak , because she needs it , because we have already aided her . I ask that open handed help , of a kind which a serf respecting people can accept , be given to Cuba , for the very reason that we have given her such help in the past . Our soldiers fought to give her freedom and for three years our representatives , civil and military , have toiled unceasingly , facing disease of a peculiarly sinister and fatal type , with patient and uncomplaining fortitude , to teach her how to use aright her new freedom . Never in history has any alien country been thus administered , with such high integrity of purpose , such wise judgment , and such single minded devotion to the country s interests . Now , I ask that the Cubans be given all possible chance to use to the best advantage the freedom of which Americans have such right to be proud , and for which so many American lives have been sacrificed .<speech_sep>To the Senate and House of Representatives On November 21st I visited the island of Porto Rico , landing at Ponce , crossing by the old Spanish road by Cayey to San Juan , and returning next morning over the new American road from Arecibo to Ponce the scenery was wonderfully beautiful , especially among the mountains of the interior , which constitute a veritable tropic Switzerland . I could not embark at San Juan because the harbor has not been dredged out and cannot receive an American battleship . I do not think this fact creditable to us as a nation , and I earnestly hope that immediate provision will be made for dredging San Juan harbor . I doubt whether our people as a whole realize the beauty and fertility of Porto Rico , and the progress that has been made under its admirable government . We have just cause for pride in the character of our representatives who have administered the tropic islands which came under our flag as a result of the war with Spain and of no one of them is this more true than of Porto Rico . It would be impossible to wish a more faithful , a more efficient and a more disinterested public service than that now being rendered in the island of Porto Rico by those in control of the insular government . I stopped at a dozen towns , all told , and one of the notable features in every town was the gathering of the school children . The work that has been done in Porto Rico for education has been noteworthy . The main emphasis , as is eminently wise and proper , has been put upon primary education but in addition to this there is a normal school , an agricultural school , three industrial and three high schools . Every effort is being made to secure not only the benefits of elementary education to all the Porto Ricans of the next generation , but also as far as means will permit to train them so that the industrial , agricultural , and commercial opportunities of the island can be utilized to the best possible advantage . It was evident at a glance that the teachers , both Americans and native Porto Ricans , were devoted to their work , took the greatest pride in it , and were endeavoring to train their pupils , not only in mind , but in what counts for far more than mind in citizenship , that is , in character . I was very much struck by the excellent character both of the insular police and of the Porto Rican regiment . They are both of them bodies that reflect credit upon the American administration of the island . The insular police are under the local Porto Rican government . The Porto Rican regiment of troops must be appropriated for by the Congress . I earnestly hope that this body will be kept permanent . There should certainly be troops in the island , and it is wise that these troops should be themselves native Porto Ricans . It would be from every standpoint a mistake not to perpetuate this regiment . In traversing the island even the most cursory survey leaves the beholder struck with the evident rapid growth in the culture both of the sugar cane and tobacco . The fruit industry is also growing . Last year was the most prosperous year that the island has ever known , before or since the American occupation . The total of exports and imports of the island was forty five millions of dollars as against eighteen millions in 1901 . This is the largest in the island s history . Prior to the American occupation the greatest trade for any one year was that of 1896 , when it reached nearly 23 , 000 , 000 . Last year , therefore , there was double the trade that there was in the most prosperous year under the Spanish regime . There were 210 , 273 tons of sugar exported last year , of the value of 14 , 186 , 319 3 , 555 , 163 of tobacco and 28 , 290 , 322 pounds of coffee of the value of 3 , 181 , 102 . Unfortunately , what used to be Porto Rico s prime cup coffee has not shared this prosperity . It has never recovered from the disaster of the hurricane , and moreover , the benefit of throwing open our market to it has not compensated for the loss inflicted by the closing of the markets to it abroad . I call your attention to the accompanying memorial on this subject of the board of trade of San Juan , and I earnestly hope that some measure will be taken for the benefit of the excellent and high grade Porto Rican coffee . In addition to delegations from the board of trade and chamber of commerce of San Juan , I also received delegations from the Porto Rican Federation of Labor and from the Coffee Growers Association . There is a matter to which I wish to call your special attention , and that is the desirability of conferring full American citizenship upon the people of Porto Rico . I most earnestly hope that this will be done . I cannot see how any harm can possibly result from it , and it seems to me a matter of right and justice to the people of Porto Rico . They are loyal , they are glad to be under our flag , they are making rapid progress along the path of orderly liberty . Surely we should show our appreciation of them , our pride in what they have done , and our pleasure in extending recognition for what has thus been done , by granting them full American citizenship . Under the wise administration of the present governor and council marked progress has been made in the difficult matter of granting to the people of the island the largest measure of self government that can with safety be given at the present time . It would have been a very serious mistake to have gone any faster than we have already gone in this direction . The Porto Ricans have complete and absolute autonomy in all their municipal governments , the only power over them possessed by the insular government being that of removing corrupt or incompetent municipal officials . This power has never been exercised save on the clearest proof of corruption or of incompetence such as to jeopardize the interests of the people of the island , and under such circumstances it has been fearlessly used to the immense benefit of the people . It is not a power with which it would be safe , for the sake of the island itself , to dispense at present . The lower house is absolutely elective , while the upper house is appointive . This scheme is working well no injustice of any kind results from it , and great benefit to the island , and it should certainly not be changed at this time . The machinery of the elections is administered entirely by the Porto Rican people themselves , the governor and council keeping only such supervision as is necessary in order to insure an orderly election . Any protest as to electoral frauds is settled in the courts . Here , again , it would not be safe to make any change in the present system . The elections this year were absolutely orderly , unaccompanied by any disturbance , and no protest has been made against the management of the elections , although three contests are threatened where the majorities were very small and error was claimed the contests , of course , to be settled in the courts . In short , the governor and council are co operating with all of the most enlightened and most patriotic of the people of Porto Rico in educating the citizens of the island in the principles of orderly liberty . They are providing a government based upon each citizen s self respect and the mutual respect of all citizens that is , based upon a rigid observance of the principles of justice and honesty . It has not been easy to instill into the minds of the people unaccustomed to the exercise of freedom the two basic principles of our American system the principle that the majority must rule and the principle that the minority has rights which must not be disregarded or trampled upon . Yet real progress has been made in having these principles accepted as elementary , as the foundations of successful self government . I transmit herewith the report of the governor of Porto Rico , sent to the President through the Secretary of State . All the insular governments should be placed in one bureau , either in the Department of War or the Department of State . It is a mistake not so to arrange our handling of these islands at Washington as to be able to take advantage of the experience gained in one when dealing with the problems that from time to time arise in another . In conclusion let me express my admiration for the work done by the Congress when it enacted the law under which the island is now being administered . After seeing the island personally , and after five years experience in connection with its administration , it is but fair to those who devised this law to say that it would be well nigh impossible to have devised any other which in the actual working would have accomplished better results .<speech_sep>To the Senate and House of Representatives It being required by the resolution of the Senate of March 1903 , that the approval of Congress shall be given to the Reciprocal Commercial Convention between the United States and Cuba , signed December 11 , 1902 , before the same shall take effect , I transmit herewith the text of the said Convention as amended by the Senate . The President of the United States of America and the President of the Republic of Cuba , animated by the desire to strengthen the bonds of friendship between the two countries , and to facilitate their commercial intercourse by improving the conditions of trade between them , have resolved to enter into a convention for that purpose , and have appointed their respective Plenipotentiaries , to wit The President of the United States of America , the Honorable General Tasker Bliss The President of the Republic of Cuba , the Honorable Carlos de Zaldo y Beurmann , Secretary of State and Justice , and the Honorable Jose Garcia y Montes , Secretary of the Treasury who , after an exchange of their full powers found to be in good and due form , have , in consideration of and in compensation for the respective concessions and engagements made by each to the other as hereinafter recited , agreed and do hereby agree upon the following Articles for the regulation and government of their reciprocal trade , namely During the term of this convention , all articles of merchandise being the product of the soil or industry of the United States which are now imported into the Republic of Cuba free of duty and all articles of merchandise being the product of the soil or industry of the Republic of Cuba which are now imported into the United States free of duty , shall continue to be so admitted by the respective countries free of duty . During the term of this convention , all articles of merchandise not included in the foregoing Article I and being the product of the soil or industry of the Republic of Cuba imported into the United States shall be admitted at a reduction of twenty per centum of the rates of duty thereon as provided by the Tariff Act of the United States approved July 24 , 1897 , or as may be provided by any tariff law of the United States subsequently enacted . During the term of this convention , all articles of merchandise not included in the foregoing Article I and not hereinafter enumerated , being the product of the soil or industry of the United States , imported into the Republic of Cuba shall be admitted at a reduction of twenty per centum of the rates of duty thereon as now provided or as may hereafter be provided in the Customs Tariff of said Republic of Cuba . During the term of this convention , the following articles of merchandise as enumerated and described in the existing Customs Tariff of the Republic of Cuba , being the product of the soil or industry of the United States imported into Cuba shall be admitted at the following respective reductions of the rates of duty thereon as now provided or as may hereafter be provided in the Customs Tariff of the Republic of Cuba Schedule A . To be admitted at a reduction of twenty five 25 per centum Machinery and apparatus of copper or its alloys or machines and apparatus in which copper or its alloys enter as the component of chief value cast iron , wrought iron and steel , and manufactures thereof articles of crystal and glass , except window glass ships and water borne vessels of all kinds , of iron or steel whiskies and brandies fish , salted , pickled , smoke or marinated fish or shell fish , preserved in oil or otherwise in tins articles of pottery or earthenware now classified under Paragraphs 21 and 22 of the Customs Tariff of the Republic of Cuba . Schedule B . To be admitted at a reduction of thirty 30 per centum Butter flour of wheat corn flour of corn or corn meal chemical and pharmaceutical products and simple drugs malt liquors in bottles non alcoholic beverages cider mineral waters colors and dyes window glass complete or partly made up articles of hemp , flax , pits , jute , henequen , ramie , and other vegetable fibers now classified under the paragraphs of Group 2 , Class of the Customs Tariff of the Republic of Cuba musical instruments writing and printing paper , except for newspapers cotton and manufactures thereof , except knitted goods see Schedule C all articles of cutlery boots , shoes and slippers , now classified under Paragraphs 197 and 198 of the Customs Tariff of the Republic of Cuba gold and silver plated ware drawings , photographs , engravings , lithographs , chromolithographs , oleographs , etc . , printed from stone , zinc , aluminium , or other material , used as labels , flaps , bands and wrappers for tobacco or other purposes , and all the other papers except paper for cigarettes , and excepting maps and charts , pasteboard and manufactures thereof , now classified under Paragraphs 157 to 164 inclusive of the Customs Tariff of the Republic of Cuba common or ordinary soaps , now classified under Paragraph 105 , letters and B , of the Customs Tariff of the Republic of Cuba vegetables , pickled or preserved in any manner all wines , except those now classified under Paragraph 279 a of the Customs Tariff of the Republic of Cuba . Schedule C . To be admitted at a reduction of forty 40 per centum Manufactures of cotton , knitted , and all manufactures of cotton not included in the preceding schedules cheese fruits , preserved paper pulp perfumery and essences articles of pottery and earthenware now classified under Paragraph 20 of the Customs Tariff of the Republic of Cuba porcelain soaps , other than common , now classified under Paragraph 105 of the Customs Tariff of the Republic of Cuba umbrellas and parasols dextrine and glucose watches wool and manufactures thereof silk and manufactures thereof rice cattle . It is understood and agreed that the laws and regulations adopted , or that may be adopted , by the United States and by the Republic of Cuba , to protect their revenues and prevent fraud in the declarations and proofs that the articles of merchandise to which this convention may apply are the product or manufacture of the United States and the Republic of Cuba , respectively , shall not impose any additional charge or fees therefor on the articles imported , excepting the consular fees established , or which may be established , by either of the two countries for issuing shipping documents , which fees shall not be higher than those charged on the shipments of similar merchandise from any other nation whatsoever . It is agreed that the tobacco , in any form , of the United States or of any of its insular possessions , shall not enjoy the benefit of any concession or rebate of duty when imported into the Republic of Cuba . It is agreed that similar articles of both countries shall receive equal treatment on their importation into the ports of the United States and of the Republic of Cuba , respectively . The rates of duty herein granted by the United States to the Republic of Cuba are and shall continue during the term of this convention preferential in respect to all like imports from other countries , and , in return for said preferential rates of duty granted to the Republic of Cuba by the United States , it is agreed that the concession herein granted on the part of the said Republic of Cuba to the products of the United States shall likewise be , and shall continue , during the term of this convention , preferential in respect to all like imports from other countries Provided , That while this convention is in force , no sugar imported from the Republic of Cuba , and being the product of the soil or industry of the Republic of Cuba , shall be admitted into the United States at a reduction of duty greater than twenty per centum of the rates of duty thereon as provided by the tariff act of the United States approved July 24 , 1897 , and no sugar , the product of any other foreign country , shall be admitted by treaty or convention into the United States , while this convention is in force , at a lower rate of duty than that provided by the tariff act of the United States approved July 24 , 1897 . In order to maintain the mutual advantages granted in the present convention by the United States to the Republic of Cuba and by the Republic of Cuba to the United States , it is understood and agreed that any tax or charge that may be imposed by the national or local authorities of either of the two countries upon the articles of merchandise embraced in the provisions of this convention , subsequent to importation and prior to their entering into consumption in the respective countries , shall be imposed and collected without discrimination upon like articles whensoever imported . It is hereby understood and agreed that in case of changes in the tariff of either country which deprive the other of the advantage which is represented by the percentages herein agreed upon , on the actual rates of the tariffs now in force , the country so deprived of this protection reserves the right to terminate its obligations under this convention after six months notice to the other of its intention to arrest the operations thereof . And it is further understood and agreed that if , at any time during the term of this convention , after the expiration of the first year , the protection herein granted to the products and manufactures of the United States on the basis of the actual rates of the tariff of the Republic of Cuba now in force , should appear to the government of the said Republic to be excessive in view of a new tariff law that may be adopted by it after this convention becomes operative , then the said Republic of Cuba may reopen negotiations with a view to securing such modifications as may appear proper to both contracting parties . The present convention shall be ratified by the appropriate authorities of the respective countries , and the ratifications shall be exchanged at Washington , District of Columbia , United States of America , as soon as may be before the thirty first day of January , 1903 , and the convention shall go into effect on the tenth day after the exchange of ratifications , and shall continue in force for the term of five 5 years from the date of going into effect , and from year to year thereafter until the expiration of one year from the day when either of the contracting parties shall give notice to the other of its intention to terminate the same . This convention shall not take effect until the same shall have been approved by the Congress . In witness whereof we , the respective Plenipotentiaries , have signed the same in duplicate , in English and Spanish , and have affixed our respective seals , at Havana , Cuba , this eleventh day of December , in the year one thousand nine hundred and two . To the Senate and House of Representatives I have convened the Congress that it may consider the legislation necessary to put into operation the commercial treaty with Cuba , which was ratified by the Senate at its last session , and subsequently by the Cuban Government . I deem such legislation demanded not only by our interest , but by our honor . We can not with propriety abandon the course upon which we have so wisely embarked . When the acceptance of the Platt amendment was required from Cuba by the action of the Congress of the United States , this Government thereby definitely committed itself to the policy of treating Cuba as occupying a unique position as regards this country . It was provided that when the island became a free and independent republic she should stand in such close relations with us as in certain respects to come within our system of international policy and it necessarily followed that she must also to a certain degree become included within the lines of our economic policy . Situated as Cuba is , it would not be possible for this country to permit the strategic abuse of the island by any foreign military power . It is for this reason that certain limitations have been imposed upon her financial policy , and that naval stations have been conceded by her to the United States . The negotiations as to the details of these naval stations are on the eve of completion . They are so situated as to prevent any idea that there is the intention ever to use them against Cuba , or otherwise than for the protection of Cuba from the assaults of foreign foes , and for the better safeguarding of American interests in the waters south of us . These interests have been largely increased by the consequences of the war with Spain , and will be still further increased by the building of the isthmian canal . They are both military and economic . The granting to us by Cuba of the naval stations above alluded to is of the utmost importance from a military standpoint , and is proof of the good faith with which Cuba is treating us . Cuba has made great progress since her independence was established . She has advanced steadily in every way . She already stands high among her sister republics of the New World . She is loyally observing her obligations to us and she is entitled to like treatment by us . The treaty submitted to you for approval secures to the United States economic advantages as great as those given to Cuba . Not an American interest is sacrificed . By the treaty a large Cuban market is secured to our producers . It is a market which lies at our doors , which is already large , which is capable of great expansion , and which is especially important to the development of our export trade . It would be indeed shortsighted for us to refuse to take advantage of such an opportunity , and to force Cuba into making arrangements with other countries to our disadvantage . This reciprocity treaty stands by itself . It is demanded on considerations of broad national policy as well as by our economic interest . It will do harm to no industry . It will benefit many industries . It is in the interest of our people as a whole , both because of its importance from the broad standpoint of international policy , and because economically it intimately concerns us to develop and secure the rich Cuban market for our farmers , artisans , merchants , and manufacturers . Finally , it is desirable as a guaranty of the good faith of our Nation towards her young sister Republic to the south , whose welfare must ever be closely bound with ours . We gave her liberty . We are knit to her by the memories of the blood and the courage of our soldiers who fought for her in war by the memories of the wisdom and integrity of our administrators who served her in peace and who started her so well on the difficult path of self government . We must help her onward and upward and in helping her we shall help ourselves . The foregoing considerations caused the negotiation of the treaty with Cuba and its ratification by the Senate . They now with equal force support the legislation by the Congress which by the terms of the treaty is necessary to render it operative . A failure to enact such legislation would come perilously near a repudiation of the pledged faith of the Nation . I transmit herewith the treaty , as amended by the Senate and ratified by the Cuban Government .<speech_sep>To the Senate and House of Representatives I call your attention to certain measures as to which I think there should be action by the Congress before the close of the present session . There is ample time for their consideration . As regards most if not all of the matters , bills have been introduced into one or the other of the two Houses , and it is not too much to hope that action will be taken one way or the other on these bills at the present session . In my message at the opening of the present session , and , indeed , in various messages to previous Congresses , I have repeatedly suggested action on most of these measures . Child labor should be prohibited throughout the Nation . At least a model child labor bill should be passed for the District of Columbia . It is unfortunate that in the one place solely dependent upon Congress for its legislation there should be no law whatever to protect children by forbidding or regulating their labor . I renew my recommendation for the immediate reenactment of an employers liability law , drawn to conform to the recent decision of the Supreme Court . Within the limits indicated by the court , the law should be made through and comprehensive , and the protection it affords should embrace every class of employee to which the power of the Congress can extend . In addition to a liability law protecting the employees of common carriers , the Government should show its good faith by enacting a further law giving compensation to its own employees for injury or death incurred in its service . It is a reproach to us as a Nation that in both Federal and State legislation we have afforded less protection to public and private employees than any other industrial country of the world . I also urge that action be taken along the line of the recommendations I have already made concerning injunctions in labor disputes . No temporary restraining order should be issued by any court without notice and the petition for a permanent injunction upon which such temporary restraining order has been issued should be heard by the court issuing the same within a reasonable time say , not to exceed a week or thereabouts from the date when the order was issued . It is worth considering whether it would not give greater popular confidence in the impartiality of sentences for contempt if it was required that the issue should be decided by another judge than the one issuing the injunction , except where the contempt is committed in the presence of the court , or in other case of urgency . I again call attention to the urgent need of amending the interstate commerce law and especially the anti trust law along the lines indicated in my last message . The interstate commerce law should be amended so as to give railroads the right to make traffic agreements , subject to these agreements being approved by the Interstate Commerce Commission and published in all of their details . The Commission should also be given the power to make public and to pass upon the issuance of all securities hereafter issued by railroads doing an interstate commerce business . A law should be passed providing in effect that when a Federal court determines to place a common carrier or other public utility concern under the control of a receivership , the Attorney General should have the right to nominate at least one of the receivers or else in some other way the interests of the stockholders should be consulted , so that the management may not be wholly redelivered to the man or men the failure of whose policy may have necessitated the creation of the receivership . Receiverships should be used , not to operate roads , but as speedily as possible to pay their debts and return them to the proper owners . In addition to the reasons I have already urged on your attention , it has now become important that there should be an amendment of the anti trust law , because of the uncertainty as to how this law affects combinations among labor men and farmers , if the combination has any tendency to restrict interstate commerce . All of these combinations , if and while existing for and engaged in the promotion of innocent and proper purposes , should be recognized as legal . As I have repeatedly pointed out , this antitrust law was a most unwisely drawn statute . It was perhaps inevitable that in feeling after the right remedy the first attempts to provide such should be crude and it was absolutely imperative that some legislation should be passed to control , in the interest of the public , the business use of the enormous aggregations of corporate wealth that are so marked a feature of the modern industrial world . But the present anti trust law , in its construction and working , has exemplified only too well the kind of legislation which , under the guise of being thoroughgoing , is drawn up in such sweeping form as to become either ineffective or else mischievous . In the modern industrial world combinations are absolutely necessary they are necessary among business men , they are necessary among laboring men , they are becoming more and more necessary among farmers . Some of these combinations are among the most powerful of all instruments for wrongdoing . Others offer the only effective way of meeting actual business needs . It is mischievous and unwholesome to keep upon the statute books unmodified , a law , like the anti trust law , which , while in practice only partially effective against vicious combinations , has nevertheless in theory been construed so as sweepingly to prohibit every combination for the transaction of modern business . Some real good has resulted from this law . But the time has come when it is imperative to modify it . Such modification is urgently needed for the sake of the business men of the country , for the sake of the wage workers , and for the sake of the farmers . The Congress can not afford to leave it on the statute books in its present shape . It has now become uncertain how far this law may involve all labor organizations and farmers organizations , as well as all business organizations , in conflict with the law or , if we secure literal compliance with the law , how far it may result in the destruction of the organizations necessary for the transaction of modern business , as well as of all labor organizations and farmers organizations , completely check the wise movement for securing business cooperation among farmers , and put back half a century the progress of the movement for the betterment of labor . A bill has been presented in the Congress to remedy this situation . Some such measure as this bill is needed in the interest of all engaged in the industries which are essential to the country s well being . I do not pretend to say the exact shape that the bill should take , and the suggestions I have to offer are tentative and my views would apply equally to any other measure which would achieve the desired end . Bearing this in mind , I would suggest , merely tentatively , the following changes in the law The substantive part of the anti trust law should remain as at present that is , every contract in restraint of trade or commerce among the several States or with foreign nations should continue to be declared illegal provided , however , that some proper governmental authority such as the Commissioner of Corporations acting under the Secretary of Commerce and Labor be allowed to pass on any such contracts . Probably the best method of providing for this would be to enact that any contract , subject to the prohibition contained in the antitrust law , into which it was desired to enter , might be filed with the Bureau of Corporations or other appropriate executive body . This would provide publicity . Within , say , sixty days of the filing which period could be extended by order of the Department whenever for any reason it did not give the Department sufficient time for a thorough examination the executive department having power might forbid the contract , which would then become subject to the provisions of the anti trust law , if at all in restraint of trade . If no such prohibition was issued , the contract would then only be liable to attack on the ground that it constituted an unreasonable restraint of trade . Whenever the period of filing had passed without any such prohibition , the contracts or combinations could be disapproved or forbidden only after notice and hearing with a reasonable provision for summary review on appeal by the courts . Labor organizations , farmers organizations , and other organizations not organized for purposes of profit , should be allowed to register under the law by giving the location of the head office , the charter and by laws , and the names and addresses of their principal officers . In the interest of all these organizations business , labor , and farmers organizations alike the present provision permitting the recovery of threefold damages should be abolished , and as a substitute therefor the right of recovery allowed for should be only the damages sustained by the plaintiff and the cost of suit , including a reasonable attorney s fee . The law should not affect pending suits a short statute of limitations should be provided , so far as the past is concerned , not to exceed a year . Moreover , and even more in the interest of labor than of business combinations , all such suits brought for causes of action heretofore occurred should be brought only if the contract or combination complained of was unfair or unreasonable . It may be well to remember that all of the suits hitherto brought by the Government under the antitrust law have been in cases where the combination or contract was in fact unfair , unreasonable , and against the public interest . It is important that we should encourage trade agreements between employer and employee where they are just and fair . A strike is a clumsy weapon for righting wrongs done to labor , and we should extend , so far as possible , the process of conciliation and arbitration as a substitute for strikes . Moreover , violence , disorder , and coercion , when committed in connection with strikes , should be as promptly and sternly repressed as when committed in any other connection . But strikes themselves are , and should be , recognized to be entirely legal . Combinations of workingmen have a peculiar reason for their existence . The very wealthy individual employer , and still more the very wealthy corporation , stand at an enormous advantage when compared to the individual workingman and while there are many cases where it may not be necessary for laborers to form a union , in many other cases it is indispensable , for otherwise the thousands of small units , the thousands of individual workingmen , will be left helpless in their dealings with the one big unit , the big individual or corporate employer . Twenty two years ago , by the act of June 29 , 1886 , trades unions were recognized by law , and the right of laboring people to combine for all lawful purposes was formally recognized , this right including combination for mutual protection and benefits , the regulation of wages , hours and conditions of labor , and the protection of the individual rights of the workmen in the prosecution of their trade or trades and in the act of June 1 , 1898 , strikes were recognized as legal in the same provision that forbade participation in or instigation of force or violence against persons or property , or the attempt to prevent others from working , by violence , threat , or intimidation . The business man must be protected in person and property , and so must the farmer and the wageworker and as regards all alike , the right of peaceful combination for all lawful purposes should be explicitly recognized . The right of employers to combine and contract with one another and with their employees should be explicitly recognized and so should the right of the employees to combine and to contract with one another and with the employers , and to seek peaceably to persuade others to accept their views , and to strike for the purpose of peaceably obtaining from employers satisfactory terms for their labor . Nothing should be done to legalize either a blacklist or a boycott that would be illegal at common law this being the type of boycott defined and condemned by the Anthracite Strike Commission . The question of financial legislation is now receiving such attention in both Houses that we have a right to expect action before the close of the session . It is urgently necessary that there should be such action . Moreover , action should be taken to establish postal savings banks . These postal savings banks are imperatively needed for the benefit of the wageworkers and men of small means , and will be a valuable adjunct to our whole financial system . The time has come when we should prepare for a revision of the tariff . This should be , and indeed must be , preceded by careful investigation . It is peculiarly the province of the Congress and not of the President , and indeed peculiarly the province of the House of Representatives , to originate a tariff bill and to determine upon its terms and this I fully realize . Yet it seems to me that before the close of this session provision should be made for collecting full material which will enable the Congress elected next fall to act immediately after it comes into existence . This would necessitate some action by the Congress at its present session , perhaps in the shape of directing the proper committee to gather the necessary information , both through the committee itself and through Government agents who should report to the committee and should lay before it the facts which would permit it to act with prompt and intelligent fairness . These Government agents , if it is not deemed wise to appoint individuals from outside the public service , might with advantage be members of the Executive Departments , designated by the President , on his own motion or on the request of the committee , to act with it . I am of the opinion , however , that one change in the tariff could with advantage be made forthwith . Our forests need every protection , and one method of protecting them would be to put upon the free list wood pulp , with a corresponding reduction upon paper made from wood pulp , when they come from any country that does not put an export duty upon them . Ample provision should be made for a permanent Waterways Commission , with whatever power is required to make it effective . The reasonable expectation of the people will not be met unless the Congress provides at this session for the beginning and prosecution of the actual work or waterway improvement and control . The Congress should recognize in fullest fashion the fact that the subject of the conservation of our natural resources , with which this Commission deals , is literally vital for the future of the Nation . Numerous bills granting water power rights on navigable streams have been introduced . None of them gives the Government the right to make a reasonable charge for the valuable privileges so granted , in spite of the fact that these water power privileges are equivalent to many thousands of acres of the best coal lands for their production of power . Nor is any definite time limit set , as should always be done in such cases . I shall be obliged hereafter , in accordance with the policy stated in a recent message , to veto any water power bill which does not provide for a time limit and for the right of the President or of the Secretary concerned to fix and collect such a charge as he may find to be just and reasonable in each case .<speech_sep>To the Senate and House of Representatives As a nation we still continue to enjoy a literally unprecedented prosperity and it is probable that only reckless speculation and disregard of legitimate business methods on the part of the business world can materially mar this prosperity . No Congress in our time has done more good work of importance than the present Congress . There were several matters left unfinished at your last session , however , which I most earnestly hope you will complete before your adjournment . I again recommend a law prohibiting all corporations from contributing to the campaign expenses of any party . Such a bill has already past one House of Congress . Let individuals contribute as they desire but let us prohibit in effective fashion all corporations from making contributions for any political purpose , directly or indirectly . Another bill which has just past one House of the Congress and which it is urgently necessary should be enacted into law is that conferring upon the Government the right of appeal in criminal cases on questions of law . This right exists in many of the States it exists in the District of Columbia by act of the Congress . It is of course not proposed that in any case a verdict for the defendant on the merits should be set aside . Recently in one district where the Government had indicted certain persons for conspiracy in connection with rebates , the court sustained the defendant s demurrer while in another jurisdiction an indictment for conspiracy to obtain rebates has been sustained by the court , convictions obtained under it , and two defendants sentenced to imprisonment . The two cases referred to may not be in real conflict with each other , but it is unfortunate that there should even be an apparent conflict . At present there is no way by which the Government can cause such a conflict , when it occurs , to be solved by an appeal to a higher court and the wheels of justice are blocked without any real decision of the question . I can not too strongly urge the passage of the bill in question . A failure to pass it will result in seriously hampering the Government in its effort to obtain justice , especially against wealthy individuals or corporations who do wrong and may also prevent the Government from obtaining justice for wage workers who are not themselves able effectively to contest a case where the judgment of an inferior court has been against them . I have specifically in view a recent decision by a district judge leaving railway employees without remedy for violation of a certain so called labor statute . It seems an absurdity to permit a single district judge , against what may be the judgment of the immense majority of his colleagues on the bench , to declare a law solemnly enacted by the Congress to be unconstitutional , and then to deny to the Government the right to have the Supreme Court definitely decide the question . It is well to recollect that the real efficiency of the law often depends not upon the passage of acts as to which there is great public excitement , but upon the passage of acts of this nature as to which there is not much public excitement , because there is little public understanding of their importance , while the interested parties are keenly alive to the desirability of defeating them . The importance of enacting into law the particular bill in question is further increased by the fact that the Government has now definitely begun a policy of resorting to the criminal law in those trust and interstate commerce cases where such a course offers a reasonable chance of success . At first , as was proper , every effort was made to enforce these laws by civil proceedings but it has become increasingly evident that the action of the Government in finally deciding , in certain cases , to undertake criminal proceedings was justifiable and tho there have been some conspicuous failures in these cases , we have had many successes , which have undoubtedly had a deterrent effect upon evil doers , whether the penalty inflicted was in the shape of fine or imprisonment and penalties of both kinds have already been inflicted by the courts . Of course , where the judge can see his way to inflict the penalty of imprisonment the deterrent effect of the punishment on other offenders is increased but sufficiently heavy fines accomplish much . Judge Holt , of the New York district court , in a recent decision admirably stated the need for treating with just severity offenders of this kind . His opinion runs in part as follows The Government s evidence to establish the defendant s guilt was clear , conclusive , and undisputed . The case was a flagrant one . The transactions which took place under this illegal contract were very large the amounts of rebates returned were considerable and the amount of the rebate itself was large , amounting to more than one fifth of the entire tariff charge for the transportation of merchandise from this city to Detroit . It is not too much to say , in my opinion , that if this business was carried on for a considerable time on that basis that is , if this discrimination in favor of this particular shipper was made with an 18 instead of a 23 cent rate and the tariff rate was maintained as against their competitors the result might be and not improbably would be that their competitors would be driven out of business . This crime is one which in its nature is deliberate and premeditated . I think over a fortnight elapsed between the date of Palmer s letter requesting the reduced rate and the answer of the railroad company deciding to grant it , and then for months afterwards this business was carried on and these claims for rebates submitted month after month and checks in payment of them drawn month after month . Such a violation of the law , in my opinion , in its essential nature , is a very much more heinous act than the ordinary common , vulgar crimes which come before criminal courts constantly for punishment and which arise from sudden passion or temptation . This crime in this case was committed by men of education and of large business experience , whose standing in the community was such that they might have been expected to set an example of obedience to law upon the maintenance of which alone in this country the security of their property depends . It was committed on behalf of a great railroad corporation , which , like other railroad corporations , has received gratuitously from the State large and valuable privileges for the public s convenience and its own , which performs quasi public functions and which is charged with the highest obligation in the transaction of its business to treat the citizens of this country alike , and not to carry on its business with unjust discriminations between different citizens or different classes of citizens . This crime in its nature is one usually done with secrecy , and proof of which it is very difficult to obtain . The interstate commerce act was past in 1887 , nearly twenty years ago . Ever since that time complaints of the granting of rebates by railroads have been common , urgent , and insistent , and altho the Congress has repeatedly past legislation endeavoring to put a stop to this evil , the difficulty of obtaining proof upon which to bring prosecution in these cases is so great that this is the first case that has ever been brought in this court , and , as I am formed , this case and one recently brought in Philadelphia are the only cases that have ever been brought in the eastern part of this country . In fact , but few cases of this kind have ever been brought in this country , East or West . Now , under these circumstances , I am forced to the conclusion , in a case in which the proof is so clear and the facts are so flagrant , it is the duty of the court to fix a penalty which shall in some degree be commensurate with the gravity of the offense . As between the two defendants , in my opinion , the principal penalty should be imposed on the corporation . The traffic manager in this case , presumably , acted without any advantage to himself and without any interest in the transaction , either by the direct authority or in accordance with what he understood to be the policy or the wishes of his employer . The sentence of this court in this case is , that the defendant Pomeroy , for each of the six offenses upon which he has been convicted , be fined the sum of 1 , 000 , making six fines , amounting in all to the sum of 6 , 000 and the defendant , The New York Central and Hudson River Railroad Company , for each of the six crimes of which it has been convicted , be fined the sum of 18 , 000 , making six fines amounting in the aggregate to the sum of 108 , 000 , and judgment to that effect will be entered in this case . In connection with this matter , I would like to call attention to the very unsatisfactory state of our criminal law , resulting in large part from the habit of setting aside the judgments of inferior courts on technicalities absolutely unconnected with the merits of the case , and where there is no attempt to show that there has been any failure of substantial justice . It would be well to enact a law providing something to the effect that No judgment shall be set aside or new trial granted in any cause , civil or criminal , on the ground of misdirection of the jury or the improper admission or rejection of evidence , or for error as to any matter of pleading or procedure unless , in the opinion of the court to which the application is made , after an examination of the entire cause , it shall affirmatively appear that the error complained of has resulted in a miscarriage of justice . In my last message I suggested the enactment of a law in connection with the issuance of injunctions , attention having been sharply drawn to the matter by the demand that the right of applying injunctions in labor cases should be wholly abolished . It is at least doubtful whether a law abolishing altogether the use of injunctions in such cases would stand the test of the courts in which case of course the legislation would be ineffective . Moreover , I believe it would be wrong altogether to prohibit the use of injunctions . It is criminal to permit sympathy for criminals to weaken our hands in upholding the law and if men seek to destroy life or property by mob violence there should be no impairment of the power of the courts to deal with them in the most summary and effective way possible . But so far as possible the abuse of the power should be provided against by some such law as I advocated last year . In this matter of injunctions there is lodged in the hands of the judiciary a necessary power which is nevertheless subject to the possibility of grave abuse . It is a power that should be exercised with extreme care and should be subject to the jealous scrutiny of all men , and condemnation should be meted out as much to the judge who fails to use it boldly when necessary as to the judge who uses it wantonly or oppressively . Of course a judge strong enough to be fit for his office will enjoin any resort to violence or intimidation , especially by conspiracy , no matter what his opinion may be of the rights of the original quarrel . There must be no hesitation in dealing with disorder . But there must likewise be no such abuse of the injunctive power as is implied in forbidding laboring men to strive for their own betterment in peaceful and lawful ways nor must the injunction be used merely to aid some big corporation in carrying out schemes for its own aggrandizement . It must be remembered that a preliminary injunction in a labor case , if granted without adequate proof even when authority can be found to support the conclusions of law on which it is founded , may often settle the dispute between the parties and therefore if improperly granted may do irreparable wrong . Yet there are many judges who assume a matter of course granting of a preliminary injunction to be the ordinary and proper judicial disposition of such cases and there have undoubtedly been flagrant wrongs committed by judges in connection with labor disputes even within the last few years , altho I think much less often than in former years . Such judges by their unwise action immensely strengthen the hands of those who are striving entirely to do away with the power of injunction and therefore such careless use of the injunctive process tends to threaten its very existence , for if the American people ever become convinced that this process is habitually abused , whether in matters affecting labor or in matters affecting corporations , it will be well nigh impossible to prevent its abolition . It may be the highest duty of a judge at any given moment to disregard , not merely the wishes of individuals of great political or financial power , but the overwhelming tide of public sentiment and the judge who does thus disregard public sentiment when it is wrong , who brushes aside the plea of any special interest when the pleading is not rounded on righteousness , performs the highest service to the country . Such a judge is deserving of all honor and all honor can not be paid to this wise and fearless judge if we permit the growth of an absurd convention which would forbid any criticism of the judge of another type , who shows himself timid in the presence of arrogant disorder , or who on insufficient grounds grants an injunction that does grave injustice , or who in his capacity as a construer , and therefore in part a maker , of the law , in flagrant fashion thwarts the cause of decent government . The judge has a power over which no review can be exercised he himself sits in review upon the acts of both the executive and legislative branches of the Government save in the most extraordinary cases he is amenable only at the bar of public opinion and it is unwise to maintain that public opinion in reference to a man with such power shall neither be exprest nor led . The best judges have ever been foremost to disclaim any immunity from criticism . This has been true since the days of the great English Lord Chancellor Parker , who said Let all people be at liberty to know what I found my judgment upon that , so when I have given it in any cause , others may be at liberty to judge of me . The proprieties of the case were set forth with singular clearness and good temper by Judge Taft , when a United States circuit judge , eleven years ago , in 1895 The opportunity freely and publicly to criticize judicial action is of vastly more importance to the body politic than the immunity of courts and judges from unjust aspersions and attack . Nothing tends more to render judges careful in their decisions and anxiously solicitous to do exact justice than the consciousness that every act of theirs is to be subjected to the intelligent scrutiny and candid criticism of their fellow men . Such criticism is beneficial in proportion as it is fair , dispassionate , discriminating , and based on a knowledge of sound legal principles . The comments made by learned text writers and by the acute editors of the various law reviews upon judicial decisions are therefore highly useful . Such critics constitute more or less impartial tribunals of professional opinion before which each judgment is made to stand or fall on its merits , and thus exert a strong influence to secure uniformity of decision . But non professional criticism also is by no means without its uses , even if accompanied , as it often is , by a direct attack upon the judicial fairness and motives of the occupants of the bench for if the law is but the essence of common sense , the protest of many average men may evidence a defect in a judicial conclusion , tho based on the nicest legal reasoning and profoundest learning . The two important elements of moral character in a judge are an earnest desire to reach a just conclusion and courage to enforce it . In so far as fear of public comment does not affect the courage of a judge , but only spurs him on to search his conscience and to reach the result which approves itself to his inmost heart such comment serves a useful purpose . There are few men , whether they are judges for life or for a shorter term , who do not prefer to earn and hold the respect of all , and who can not be reached and made to pause and deliberate by hostile public criticism . In the case of judges having a life tenure , indeed their very independence makes the right freely to comment on their decisions of greater importance , because it is the only practical and available instrument in the hands of a free people to keep such judges alive to the reasonable demands of those they serve . On the other hand , the danger of destroying the proper influence of judicial decisions by creating unfounded prejudices against the courts justifies and requires that unjust attacks shall be met and answered . Courts must ultimately rest their defense upon the inherent strength of the opinions they deliver as the ground for their conclusions and must trust to the calm and deliberate judgment of all the people as their best vindication . There is one consideration which should be taken into account by the good people who carry a sound proposition to an excess in objecting to any criticism of a judge s decision . The instinct of the American people as a whole is sound in this matter . They will not subscribe to the doctrine that any public servant is to be above all criticism . If the best citizens , those most competent to express their judgment in such matters , and above all those belonging to the great and honorable profession of the bar , so profoundly influential in American life , take the position that there shall be no criticism of a judge under any circumstances , their view will not be accepted by the American people as a whole . In such event the people will turn to , and tend to accept as justifiable , the intemperate and improper criticism uttered by unworthy agitators . Surely it is a misfortune to leave to such critics a function , right , in itself , which they are certain to abuse . Just and temperate criticism , when necessary , is a safeguard against the acceptance by the people as a whole of that intemperate antagonism towards the judiciary which must be combated by every right thinking man , and which , if it became widespread among the people at large , would constitute a dire menace to the Republic . In connection with the delays of the law , I call your attention and the attention of the Nation to the prevalence of crime among us , and above all to the epidemic of lynching and mob violence that springs up , now in one part of our country , now in another . Each section , North , South , East , or West , has its own faults no section can with wisdom spend its time jeering at the faults of another section it should be busy trying to amend its own shortcomings . To deal with the crime of corruption It is necessary to have an awakened public conscience , and to supplement this by whatever legislation will add speed and certainty in the execution of the law . When we deal with lynching even mote is necessary . A great many white men are lynched , but the crime is peculiarly frequent in respect to black men . The greatest existing cause of lynching is the perpetration , especially by black men , of the hideous crime of rape the most abominable in all the category of crimes , even worse than murder . Mobs frequently avenge the commission of this crime by themselves torturing to death the man committing it thus avenging in bestial fashion a bestial deed , and reducing themselves to a level with the criminal . Lawlessness grows by what it feeds upon and when mobs begin to lynch for rape they speedily extend the sphere of their operations and lynch for many other kinds of crimes , so that two thirds of the lynchings are not for rape at all while a considerable proportion of the individuals lynched are innocent of all crime . Governor Candler , of Georgia , stated on one occasion some years ago I can say of a verity that I have , within the last month , saved the lives of half a dozen innocent Negroes who were pursued by the mob , and brought them to trial in a court of law in which they were acquitted . As Bishop Galloway , of Mississippi , has finely said When the rule of a mob obtains , that which distinguishes a high civilization is surrendered . The mob which lynches a negro charged with rape will in a little while lynch a white man suspected of crime . Every Christian patriot in America needs to lift up his voice in loud and eternal protest against the mob spirit that is threatening the integrity of this Republic . Governor Jelks , of Alabama , has recently spoken as follows The lynching of any person for whatever crime is inexcusable anywhere it is a defiance of orderly government but the killing of innocent people under any provocation is infinitely more horrible and yet innocent people are likely to die when a mob s terrible lust is once aroused . The lesson is this No good citizen can afford to countenance a defiance of the statutes , no matter what the provocation . The innocent frequently suffer , and , it is my observation , more usually suffer than the guilty . The white people of the South indict the whole colored race on the ground that even the better elements lend no assistance whatever in ferreting out criminals of their own color . The respectable colored people must learn not to harbor their criminals , but to assist the officers in bringing them to justice . This is the larger crime , and it provokes such atrocious offenses as the one at Atlanta . The two races can never get on until there is an understanding on the part of both to make common cause with the law abiding against criminals of any color . Moreover , where any crime committed by a member of one race against a member of another race is avenged in such fashion that it seems as if not the individual criminal , but the whole race , is attacked , the result is to exasperate to the highest degree race feeling . There is but one safe rule in dealing with black men as with white men it is the same rule that must be applied in dealing with rich men and poor men that is , to treat each man , whatever his color , his creed , or his social position , with even handed justice on his real worth as a man . White people owe it quite as much to themselves as to the colored race to treat well the colored man who shows by his life that he deserves such treatment for it is surely the highest wisdom to encourage in the colored race all those individuals who are honest , industrious , law abiding , and who therefore make good and safe neighbors and citizens . Reward or punish the individual on his merits as an individual . Evil will surely come in the end to both races if we substitute for this just rule the habit of treating all the members of the race , good and bad , alike . There is no question of social equality or negro domination involved only the question of relentlessly punishing bad men , and of securing to the good man the right to his life , his liberty , and the pursuit of his happiness as his own qualities of heart , head , and hand enable him to achieve it . Every colored man should realize that the worst enemy of his race is the negro criminal , and above all the negro criminal who commits the dreadful crime of rape and it should be felt as in the highest degree an offense against the whole country , and against the colored race in particular , for a colored man to fail to help the officers of the law in hunting down with all possible earnestness and zeal every such infamous offender . Moreover , in my judgment , the crime of rape should always be punished with death , as is the case with murder assault with intent to commit rape should be made a capital crime , at least in the discretion of the court and provision should be made by which the punishment may follow immediately upon the heels of the offense while the trial should be so conducted that the victim need not be wantonly shamed while giving testimony , and that the least possible publicity shall be given to the details . The members of the white race on the other hand should understand that every lynching represents by just so much a loosening of the bands of civilization that the spirit of lynching inevitably throws into prominence in the community all the foul and evil creatures who dwell therein . No man can take part in the torture of a human being without having his own moral nature permanently lowered . Every lynching means just so much moral deterioration in all the children who have any knowledge of it , and therefore just so much additional trouble for the next generation of Americans . Let justice be both sure and swift but let it be justice under the law , and not the wild and crooked savagery of a mob . There is another matter which has a direct bearing upon this matter of lynching and of the brutal crime which sometimes calls it forth and at other times merely furnishes the excuse for its existence . It is out of the question for our people as a whole permanently to rise by treading down any of their own number . Even those who themselves for the moment profit by such maltreatment of their fellows will in the long run also suffer . No more shortsighted policy can be imagined than , in the fancied interest of one class , to prevent the education of another class . The free public school , the chance for each boy or girl to get a good elementary education , lies at the foundation of our whole political situation . In every community the poorest citizens , those who need the schools most , would be deprived of them if they only received school facilities proportioned to the taxes they paid . This is as true of one portion of our country as of another . It is as true for the negro as for the white man . The white man , if he is wise , will decline to allow the Negroes in a mass to grow to manhood and womanhood without education . Unquestionably education such as is obtained in our public schools does not do everything towards making a man a good citizen but it does much . The lowest and most brutal criminals , those for instance who commit the crime of rape , are in the great majority men who have had either no education or very little just as they are almost invariably men who own no property for the man who puts money by out of his earnings , like the man who acquires education , is usually lifted above mere brutal criminality . Of course the best type of education for the colored man , taken as a whole , is such education as is conferred in schools like Hampton and Tuskegee where the boys and girls , the young men and young women , are trained industrially as well as in the ordinary public school branches . The graduates of these schools turn out well in the great majority of cases , and hardly any of them become criminals , while what little criminality there is never takes the form of that brutal violence which invites lynch law . Every graduate of these schools and for the matter of that every other colored man or woman who leads a life so useful and honorable as to win the good will and respect of those whites whose neighbor he or she is , thereby helps the whole colored race as it can be helped in no other way for next to the negro himself , the man who can do most to help the negro is his white neighbor who lives near him and our steady effort should be to better the relations between the two . Great tho the benefit of these schools has been to their colored pupils and to the colored people , it may well be questioned whether the benefit , has not been at least as great to the white people among whom these colored pupils live after they graduate . Be it remembered , furthermore , that the individuals who , whether from folly , from evil temper , from greed for office , or in a spirit of mere base demagogy , indulge in the inflammatory and incendiary speeches and writings which tend to arouse mobs and to bring about lynching , not only thus excite the mob , but also tend by what criminologists call suggestion , greatly to increase the likelihood of a repetition of the very crime against which they are inveighing . When the mob is composed of the people of one race and the man lynched is of another race , the men who in their speeches and writings either excite or justify the action tend , of course , to excite a bitter race feeling and to cause the people of the opposite race to lose sight of the abominable act of the criminal himself and in addition , by the prominence they give to the hideous deed they undoubtedly tend to excite in other brutal and depraved natures thoughts of committing it . Swift , relentless , and orderly punishment under the law is the only way by which criminality of this type can permanently be supprest . In dealing with both labor and capital , with the questions affecting both corporations and trades unions , there is one matter more important to remember than aught else , and that is the infinite harm done by preachers of mere discontent . These are the men who seek to excite a violent class hatred against all men of wealth . They seek to turn wise and proper movements for the better control of corporations and for doing away with the abuses connected with wealth , into a campaign of hysterical excitement and falsehood in which the aim is to inflame to madness the brutal passions of mankind . The sinister demagogs and foolish visionaries who are always eager to undertake such a campaign of destruction sometimes seek to associate themselves with those working for a genuine reform in governmental and social methods , and sometimes masquerade as such reformers . In reality they are the worst enemies of the cause they profess to advocate , just as the purveyors of sensational slander in newspaper or magazine are the worst enemies of all men who are engaged in an honest effort to better what is bad in our social and governmental conditions . To preach hatred of the rich man as such , to carry on a campaign of slander and invective against him , to seek to mislead and inflame to madness honest men whose lives are hard and who have not the kind of mental training which will permit them to appreciate the danger in the doctrines preached all this is to commit a crime against the body politic and to be false to every worthy principle and tradition of American national life . Moreover , while such preaching and such agitation may give a livelihood and a certain notoriety to some of those who take part in it , and may result in the temporary political success of others , in the long run every such movement will either fail or else will provoke a violent reaction , which will itself result not merely in undoing the mischief wrought by the demagog and the agitator , but also in undoing the good that the honest reformer , the true upholder of popular rights , has painfully and laboriously achieved . Corruption is never so rife as in communities where the demagog and the agitator bear full sway , because in such communities all moral bands become loosened , and hysteria and sensationalism replace the spirit of sound judgment and fair dealing as between man and man . In sheer revolt against the squalid anarchy thus produced men are sure in the end to turn toward any leader who can restore order , and then their relief at being free from the intolerable burdens of class hatred , violence , and demagogy is such that they can not for some time be aroused to indignation against misdeeds by men of wealth so that they permit a new growth of the very abuses which were in part responsible for the original outbreak . The one hope for success for our people lies in a resolute and fearless , but sane and cool headed , advance along the path marked out last year by this very Congress . There must be a stern refusal to be misled into following either that base creature who appeals and panders to the lowest instincts and passions in order to arouse one set of Americans against their fellows , or that other creature , equally base but no baser , who in a spirit of greed , or to accumulate or add to an already huge fortune , seeks to exploit his fellow Americans with callous disregard to their welfare of soul and body . The man who debauches others in order to obtain a high office stands on an evil equality of corruption with the man who debauches others for financial profit and when hatred is sown the crop which springs up can only be evil . The plain people who think the mechanics , farmers , merchants , workers with head or hand , the men to whom American traditions are dear , who love their country and try to act decently by their neighbors , owe it to themselves to remember that the most damaging blow that can be given popular government is to elect an unworthy and sinister agitator on a platform of violence and hypocrisy . Whenever such an issue is raised in this country nothing can be gained by flinching from it , for in such case democracy is itself on trial , popular self government under republican forms is itself on trial . The triumph of the mob is just as evil a thing as the triumph of the plutocracy , and to have escaped one danger avails nothing whatever if we succumb to the other . In the end the honest man , whether rich or poor , who earns his own living and tries to deal justly by his fellows , has as much to fear from the insincere and unworthy demagog , promising much and performing nothing , or else performing nothing but evil , who would set on the mob to plunder the rich , as from the crafty corruptionist , who , for his own ends , would permit the common people to be exploited by the very wealthy . If we ever let this Government fall into the hands of men of either of these two classes , we shall show ourselves false to America s past . Moreover , the demagog and the corruptionist often work hand in hand . There are at this moment wealthy reactionaries of such obtuse morality that they regard the public servant who prosecutes them when they violate the law , or who seeks to make them bear their proper share of the public burdens , as being even more objectionable than the violent agitator who hounds on the mob to plunder the rich . There is nothing to choose between such a reactionary and such an agitator fundamentally they are alike in their selfish disregard of the rights of others and it is natural that they should join in opposition to any movement of which the aim is fearlessly to do exact and even justice to all . I call your attention to the need of passing the bill limiting the number of hours of employment of railroad employees . The measure is a very moderate one and I can conceive of no serious objection to it . Indeed , so far as it is in our power , it should be our aim steadily to reduce the number of hours of labor , with as a goal the general introduction of an eight hour day . There are industries in which it is not possible that the hours of labor should be reduced just as there are communities not far enough advanced for such a movement to be for their good , or , if in the Tropics , so situated that there is no analogy between their needs and ours in this matter . On the Isthmus of Panama , for instance , the conditions are in every way so different from what they are here that an eight hour day would be absurd just as it is absurd , so far as the Isthmus is concerned , where white labor can not be employed , to bother as to whether the necessary work is done by alien black men or by alien yellow men . But the wageworkers of the United States are of so high a grade that alike from the merely industrial standpoint and from the civic standpoint it should be our object to do what we can in the direction of securing the general observance of an eight hour day . Until recently the eight hour law on our Federal statute books has been very scantily observed . Now , however , largely thru the instrumentality of the Bureau of Labor , it is being rigidly enforced , and I shall speedily be able to say whether or not there is need of further legislation in reference thereto . for our purpose is to see it obeyed in spirit no less than in letter . Half holidays during summer should be established for Government employees it is as desirable for wageworkers who toil with their hands as for salaried officials whose labor is mental that there should be a reasonable amount of holiday . The Congress at its last session wisely provided for a truant court for the District of Columbia a marked step in advance on the path of properly caring for the children . Let me again urge that the Congress provide for a thoro investigation of the conditions of child labor and of the labor of women in the United States . More and more our people are growing to recognize the fact that the questions which are not merely of industrial but of social importance outweigh all others and these two questions most emphatically come in the category of those which affect in the most far reaching way the home life of the Nation . The horrors incident to the employment of young children in factories or at work anywhere are a blot on our civilization . It is true that each . State must ultimately settle the question in its own way but a thoro official investigation of the matter , with the results published broadcast , would greatly help toward arousing the public conscience and securing unity of State action in the matter . There is , however , one law on the subject which should be enacted immediately , because there is no need for an investigation in reference thereto , and the failure to enact it is discreditable to the National Government . A drastic and thorogoing child labor law should be enacted for the District of Columbia and the Territories . Among the excellent laws which the Congress past at the last session was an employers liability law . It was a marked step in advance to get the recognition of employers liability on the statute books but the law did not go far enough . In spite of all precautions exercised by employers there are unavoidable accidents and even deaths involved in nearly every line of business connected with the mechanic arts . This inevitable sacrifice of life may be reduced to a minimum , but it can not be completely eliminated . It is a great social injustice to compel the employee , or rather the family of the killed or disabled victim , to bear the entire burden of such an inevitable sacrifice . In other words , society shirks its duty by laying the whole cost on the victim , whereas the injury comes from what may be called the legitimate risks of the trade . Compensation for accidents or deaths due in any line of industry to the actual conditions under which that industry is carried on , should be paid by that portion of the community for the benefit of which the industry is carried on that is , by those who profit by the industry . If the entire trade risk is placed upon the employer he will promptly and properly add it to the legitimate cost of production and assess it proportionately upon the consumers of his commodity . It is therefore clear to my mind that the law should place this entire risk of a trade upon the employer . Neither the Federal law , nor , as far as I am informed , the State laws dealing with the question of employers liability are sufficiently thorogoing . The Federal law should of course include employees in navy yards , arsenals , and the like . The commission appointed by the President October 16 , 1902 , at the request of both the anthracite coal operators and miners , to inquire into , consider , and pass upon the questions in controversy in connection with the strike in the anthracite regions of Pennsylvania and the causes out of which the controversy arose , in their report , findings , and award exprest the belief that the State and Federal governments should provide the machinery for what may be called the compulsory investigation of controversies between employers and employees when they arise . This expression of belief is deserving of the favorable consideration of the Congress and the enactment of its provisions into law . A bill has already been introduced to this end . Records show that during the twenty years from January 1 , 1881 , to , December 31 , 1900 , there were strikes affecting 117 , 509 establishments , and 6 , 105 , 694 employees were thrown out of employment . During the same period there were 1 , 005 lockouts , involving nearly 10 , 000 establishments , throwing over one million people out of employment . These strikes and lockouts involved an estimated loss to employees of 307 , 000 , 000 and to employers of 143 , 000 , 000 , a total of 450 , 000 , 000 . The public suffered directly and indirectly probably as great additional loss . But the money loss , great as it was , did not measure the anguish and suffering endured by the wives and children of employees whose pay stopt when their work stopt , or the disastrous effect of the strike or lockout upon the business of employers , or the increase in the cost of products and the inconvenience and loss to the public . Many of these strikes and lockouts would not have occurred had the parties to the dispute been required to appear before an unprejudiced body representing the nation and , face to face , state the reasons for their contention . In most instances the dispute would doubtless be found to be due to a misunderstanding by each of the other s rights , aggravated by an unwillingness of either party to accept as true the statements of the other as to the justice or injustice of the matters in dispute . The exercise of a judicial spirit by a disinterested body representing the Federal Government , such as would be provided by a commission on conciliation and arbitration , would tend to create an atmosphere of friendliness and conciliation between contending parties and the giving each side an equal opportunity to present fully its case in the presence of the other would prevent many disputes from developing into serious strikes or lockouts , and , in other cases , would enable the commission to persuade the opposing parties to come to terms . In this age of great corporate and labor combinations , neither employers nor employees should be left completely at the mercy of the stronger party to a dispute , regardless of the righteousness of their respective claims . The proposed measure would be in the line of securing recognition of the fact that in many strikes the public has itself an interest which can not wisely be disregarded an interest not merely of general convenience , for the question of a just and proper public policy must also be considered . In all legislation of this kind it is well to advance cautiously , testing each step by the actual results the step proposed can surely be safely taken , for the decisions of the commission would not bind the parties in legal fashion , and yet would give a chance for public opinion to crystallize and thus to exert its full force for the right . It is not wise that the Nation should alienate its remaining coal lands . I have temporarily withdrawn from settlement all the lands which the Geological Survey has indicated as containing , or in all probability containing , coal . The question , however , can be properly settled only by legislation , which in my judgment should provide for the withdrawal of these lands from sale or from entry , save in certain especial circumstances . The ownership would then remain in the United States , which should not , however , attempt to work them , but permit them to be worked by private individuals under a royalty system , the Government keeping such control as to permit it to see that no excessive price was charged consumers . It would , of course , be as necessary to supervise the rates charged by the common carriers to transport the product as the rates charged by those who mine it and the supervision must extend to the conduct of the common carriers , so that they shall in no way favor one competitor at the expense of another . The withdrawal of these coal lands would constitute a policy analogous to that which has been followed in withdrawing the forest lands from ordinary settlement . The coal , like the forests , should be treated as the property of the public and its disposal should be under conditions which would inure to the benefit of the public as a whole . The present Congress has taken long strides in the direction of securing proper supervision and control by the National Government over corporations engaged in interstate business and the enormous majority of corporations of any size are engaged in interstate business . The passage of the railway rate bill , and only to a less degree the passage of the pure food bill , and the provision for increasing and rendering more effective national control over the beef packing industry , mark an important advance in the proper direction . In the short session it will perhaps be difficult to do much further along this line and it may be best to wait until the laws have been in operation for a number of months before endeavoring to increase their scope , because only operation will show with exactness their merits and their shortcomings and thus give opportunity to define what further remedial legislation is needed . Yet in my judgment it will in the end be advisable in connection with the packing house inspection law to provide for putting a date on the label and for charging the cost of inspection to the packers . All these laws have already justified their enactment . The interstate commerce law , for instance , has rather amusingly falsified the predictions , both of those who asserted that it would ruin the railroads and of those who asserted that it did not go far enough and would accomplish nothing . During the last five months the railroads have shown increased earnings and some of them unusual dividends while during the same period the mere taking effect of the law has produced an unprecedented , a hitherto unheard of , number of voluntary reductions in freights and fares by the railroads . Since the founding of the Commission there has never been a time of equal length in which anything like so many reduced tariffs have been put into effect . On August 27 , for instance , two days before the new law went into effect , the Commission received notices of over five thousand separate tariffs which represented reductions from previous rates . It must not be supposed , however , that with the passage of these laws it will be possible to stop progress along the line of increasing the power of the National Government over the use of capital interstate commerce . For example , there will ultimately be need of enlarging the powers of the Interstate Commerce Commission along several different lines , so as to give it a larger and more efficient control over the railroads . It can not too often be repeated that experience has conclusively shown the impossibility of securing by the actions of nearly half a hundred different State legislatures anything but ineffective chaos in the way of dealing with the great corporations which do not operate exclusively within the limits of any one State . In some method , whether by a national license law or in other fashion , we must exercise , and that at an early date , a far more complete control than at present over these great corporations a control that will among other things prevent the evils of excessive overcapitalization , and that will compel the disclosure by each big corporation of its stockholders and of its properties and business , whether owned directly or thru subsidiary or affiliated corporations . This will tend to put a stop to the securing of inordinate profits by favored individuals at the expense whether of the general public , the stockholders , or the wageworkers . Our effort should be not so much to prevent consolidation as such , but so to supervise and control it as to see that it results in no harm to the people . The reactionary or ultraconservative apologists for the misuse of wealth assail the effort to secure such control as a step toward socialism . As a matter of fact it is these reactionaries and ultraconservatives who are themselves most potent in increasing socialistic feeling . One of the most efficient methods of averting the consequences of a dangerous agitation , which is 80 per cent wrong , is to remedy the 20 per cent of evil as to which the agitation is well rounded . The best way to avert the very undesirable move for the government ownership of railways is to secure by the Government on behalf of the people as a whole such adequate control and regulation of the great interstate common carriers as will do away with the evils which give rise to the agitation against them . So the proper antidote to the dangerous and wicked agitation against the men of wealth as such is to secure by proper legislation and executive action the abolition of the grave abuses which actually do obtain in connection with the business use of wealth under our present system or rather no system of failure to exercise any adequate control at all . Some persons speak as if the exercise of such governmental control would do away with the freedom of individual initiative and dwarf individual effort . This is not a fact . It would be a veritable calamity to fail to put a premium upon individual initiative , individual capacity and effort upon the energy , character , and foresight which it is so important to encourage in the individual . But as a matter of fact the deadening and degrading effect of pure socialism , and especially of its extreme form communism , and the destruction of individual character which they would bring about , are in part achieved by the wholly unregulated competition which results in a single individual or corporation rising at the expense of all others until his or its rise effectually checks all competition and reduces former competitors to a position of utter inferiority and subordination . In enacting and enforcing such legislation as this Congress already has to its credit , we are working on a coherent plan , with the steady endeavor to secure the needed reform by the joint action of the moderate men , the plain men who do not wish anything hysterical or dangerous , but who do intend to deal in resolute common sense fashion with the real and great evils of the present system . The reactionaries and the violent extremists show symptoms of joining hands against us . Both assert , for instance , that , if logical , we should go to government ownership of railroads and the like the reactionaries , because on such an issue they think the people would stand with them , while the extremists care rather to preach discontent and agitation than to achieve solid results . As a matter of fact , our position is as remote from that of the Bourbon reactionary as from that of the impracticable or sinister visionary . We hold that the Government should not conduct the business of the nation , but that it should exercise such supervision as will insure its being conducted in the interest of the nation . Our aim is , so far as may be , to secure , for all decent , hard working men , equality of opportunity and equality of burden . The actual working of our laws has shown that the effort to prohibit all combination , good or bad , is noxious where it is not ineffective . Combination of capital like combination of labor is a necessary element of our present industrial system . It is not possible completely to prevent it and if it were possible , such complete prevention would do damage to the body politic . What we need is not vainly to try to prevent all combination , but to secure such rigorous and adequate control and supervision of the combinations as to prevent their injuring the public , or existing in such form as inevitably to threaten injury for the mere fact that a combination has secured practically complete control of a necessary of life would under any circumstances show that such combination was to be presumed to be adverse to the public interest . It is unfortunate that our present laws should forbid all combinations , instead of sharply discriminating between those combinations which do good and those combinations which do evil . Rebates , for instance , are as often due to the pressure of big shippers as was shown in the investigation of the Standard Oil Company and as has been shown since by the investigation of the tobacco and sugar trusts as to the initiative of big railroads . Often railroads would like to combine for the purpose of preventing a big shipper from maintaining improper advantages at the expense of small shippers and of the general public . Such a combination , instead of being forbidden by law , should be favored . In other words , it should be permitted to railroads to make agreements , provided these agreements were sanctioned by the Interstate Commerce Commission and were published . With these two conditions complied with it is impossible to see what harm such a combination could do to the public at large . It is a public evil to have on the statute books a law incapable of full enforcement because both judges and juries realize that its full enforcement would destroy the business of the country for the result is to make decent railroad men violators of the law against their will , and to put a premium on the behavior of the wilful wrongdoers . Such a result in turn tends to throw the decent man and the wilful wrongdoer into close association , and in the end to drag down the former to the latter s level for the man who becomes a lawbreaker in one way unhappily tends to lose all respect for law and to be willing to break it in many ways . No more scathing condemnation could be visited upon a law than is contained in the words of the Interstate Commerce Commission when , in commenting upon the fact that the numerous joint traffic associations do technically violate the law , they say The decision of the United States Supreme Court in the Trans Missouri case and the Joint Traffic Association case has produced no practical effect upon the railway operations of the country . Such associations , in fact , exist now as they did before these decisions , and with the same general effect . In justice to all parties , we ought probably to add that it is difficult to see how our interstate railways could be operated with due regard to the interest of the shipper and the railway without concerted action of the kind afforded thru these associations . This means that the law as construed by the Supreme Court is such that the business of the country can not be conducted without breaking it . I recommend that you give careful and early consideration to this subject , and if you find the opinion of the Interstate Commerce Commission justified , that you amend the law so as to obviate the evil disclosed . The question of taxation is difficult in any country , but it is especially difficult in ours with its Federal system of government . Some taxes should on every ground be levied in a small district for use in that district . Thus the taxation of real estate is peculiarly one for the immediate locality in which the real estate is found . Again , there is no more legitimate tax for any State than a tax on the franchises conferred by that State upon street railroads and similar corporations which operate wholly within the State boundaries , sometimes in one and sometimes in several municipalities or other minor divisions of the State . But there are many kinds of taxes which can only be levied by the General Government so as to produce the best results , because , among other reasons , the attempt to impose them in one particular State too often results merely in driving the corporation or individual affected to some other locality or other State . The National Government has long derived its chief revenue from a tariff on imports and from an internal or excise tax . In addition to these there is every reason why , when next our system of taxation is revised , the National Government should impose a graduated inheritance tax , and , if possible , a graduated income tax . The man of great wealth owes a peculiar obligation to the State , because he derives special advantages from the mere existence of government . Not only should he recognize this obligation in the way he leads his daily life and in the way he earns and spends his money , but it should also be recognized by the way in which he pays for the protection the State gives him . On the one hand , it is desirable that he should assume his full and proper share of the burden of taxation on the other hand , it is quite as necessary that in this kind of taxation , where the men who vote the tax pay but little of it , there should be clear recognition of the danger of inaugurating any such system save in a spirit of entire justice and moderation . Whenever we , as a people , undertake to remodel our taxation system along the lines suggested , we must make it clear beyond peradventure that our aim is to distribute the burden of supporting the Government more equitably than at present that we intend to treat rich man and poor man on a basis of absolute equality , and that we regard it as equally fatal to true democracy to do or permit injustice to the one as to do or permit injustice to the other . I am well aware that such a subject as this needs long and careful study in order that the people may become familiar with what is proposed to be done , may clearly see the necessity of proceeding with wisdom and self restraint , and may make up their minds just how far they are willing to go in the matter while only trained legislators can work out the project in necessary detail . But I feel that in the near future our national legislators should enact a law providing for a graduated inheritance tax by which a steadily increasing rate of duty should be put upon all moneys or other valuables coming by gift , bequest , or devise to any individual or corporation . It may be well to make the tax heavy in proportion as the individual benefited is remote of kin . In any event , in my judgment the pro rata of the tax should increase very heavily with the increase of the amount left to any one individual after a certain point has been reached . It is most desirable to encourage thrift and ambition , and a potent source of thrift and ambition is the desire on the part of the breadwinner to leave his children well off . This object can be attained by making the tax very small on moderate amounts of property left because the prime object should be to put a constantly increasing burden on the inheritance of those swollen fortunes which it is certainly of no benefit to this country to perpetuate . There can be no question of the ethical propriety of the Government thus determining the conditions upon which any gift or inheritance should be received . Exactly how far the inheritance tax would , as an incident , have the effect of limiting the transmission by devise or gift of the enormous fortunes in question it is not necessary at present to discuss . It is wise that progress in this direction should be gradual . At first a permanent national inheritance tax , while it might be more substantial than any such tax has hitherto been , need not approximate , either in amount or in the extent of the increase by graduation , to what such a tax should ultimately be . This species of tax has again and again been imposed , altho only temporarily , by the National Government . It was first imposed by the act of July 6 , 1797 , when the makers of the Constitution were alive and at the head of affairs . It was a graduated tax tho small in amount , the rate was increased with the amount left to any individual , exceptions being made in the case of certain close kin . A similar tax was again imposed by the act of July 1 , 1862 a minimum sum of one thousand dollars in personal property being excepted from taxation , the tax then becoming progressive according to the remoteness of kin . The war revenue act of June 13 , 1898 , provided for an inheritance tax on any sum exceeding the value of ten thousand dollars , the rate of the tax increasing both in accordance with the amounts left and in accordance with the legatee s remoteness of kin . The Supreme Court has held that the succession tax imposed at the time of the Civil War was not a direct tax but an impost or excise which was both constitutional and valid . More recently the Court , in an opinion delivered by Justice White , which contained an exceedingly able and elaborate discussion of the powers of the Congress to impose death duties , sustained the constitutionality of the inheritance tax feature of the war revenue act of 1898 . In its incidents , and apart from the main purpose of raising revenue , an income tax stands on an entirely different footing from an inheritance tax because it involves no question of the perpetuation of fortunes swollen to an unhealthy size . The question is in its essence a question of the proper adjustment of burdens to benefits . As the law now stands it is undoubtedly difficult to devise a national income tax which shall be constitutional . But whether it is absolutely impossible is another question and if possible it is most certainly desirable . The first purely income tax law was past by the Congress in 1861 , but the most important law dealing with the subject was that of 1894 . This the court held to be unconstitutional . The question is undoubtedly very intricate , delicate , and troublesome . The decision of the court was only reached by one majority . It is the law of the land , and of course is accepted as such and loyally obeyed by all good citizens . Nevertheless , the hesitation evidently felt by the court as a whole in coming to a conclusion , when considered together with the previous decisions on the subject , may perhaps indicate the possibility of devising a constitutional income tax law which shall substantially accomplish the results aimed at . The difficulty of amending the Constitution is so great that only real necessity can justify a resort thereto . Every effort should be made in dealing with this subject , as with the subject of the proper control by the National Government over the use of corporate wealth in interstate business , to devise legislation which without such action shall attain the desired end but if this fails , there will ultimately be no alternative to a constitutional amendment . It would be impossible to overstate tho it is of course difficult quantitatively to measure the effect upon a nation s growth to greatness of what may be called organized patriotism , which necessarily includes the substitution of a national feeling for mere local pride with as a resultant a high ambition for the whole country . No country can develop its full strength so long as the parts which make up the whole each put a feeling of loyalty to the part above the feeling of loyalty to the whole . This is true of sections and it is just as true of classes . The industrial and agricultural classes must work together , capitalists and wageworkers must work together , if the best work of which the country is capable is to be done . It is probable that a thoroly efficient system of education comes next to the influence of patriotism in bringing about national success of this kind . Our federal form of government , so fruitful of advantage to our people in certain ways , in other ways undoubtedly limits our national effectiveness . It is not possible , for instance , for the National Government to take the lead in technical industrial education , to see that the public school system of this country develops on all its technical , industrial , scientific , and commercial sides . This must be left primarily to the several States . Nevertheless , the National Government has control of the schools of the District of Columbia , and it should see that these schools promote and encourage the fullest development of the scholars in both commercial and industrial training . The commercial training should in one of its branches deal with foreign trade . The industrial training is even more important . It should be one of our prime objects as a Nation , so far as feasible , constantly to work toward putting the mechanic , the wageworker who works with his hands , on a higher plane of efficiency and reward , so as to increase his effectiveness in the economic world , and the dignity , the remuneration , and the power of his position in the social world . Unfortunately , at present the effect of some of the work in the public schools is in the exactly opposite direction . If boys and girls are trained merely in literary accomplishments , to the total exclusion of industrial , manual , and technical training , the tendency is to unfit them for industrial work and to make them reluctant to go into it , or unfitted to do well if they do go into it . This is a tendency which should be strenuously combated . Our industrial development depends largely upon technical education , including in this term all industrial education , from that which fits a man to be a good mechanic , a good carpenter , or blacksmith , to that which fits a man to do the greatest engineering feat . The skilled mechanic , the skilled workman , can best become such by technical industrial education . The far reaching usefulness of institutes of technology and schools of mines or of engineering is now universally acknowledged , and no less far reaching is the effect of a good building or mechanical trades school , a textile , or watch making , or engraving school . All such training must develop not only manual dexterity but industrial intelligence . In international rivalry this country does not have to fear the competition of pauper labor as much as it has to fear the educated labor of specially trained competitors and we should have the education of the hand , eye , and brain which will fit us to meet such competition . In every possible way we should help the wageworker who toils with his hands and who must we hope in a constantly increasing measure also toil with his brain . Under the Constitution the National Legislature can do but little of direct importance for his welfare save where he is engaged in work which permits it to act under the interstate commerce clause of the Constitution and this is one reason why I so earnestly hope that both the legislative and judicial branches of the Government will construe this clause of the Constitution in the broadest possible manner . We can , however , in such a matter as industrial training , in such a matter as child labor and factory laws , set an example to the States by enacting the most advanced legislation that can wisely be enacted for the District of Columbia . The only other persons whose welfare is as vital to the welfare of the whole country as is the welfare of the wageworkers are the tillers of the soil , the farmers . It is a mere truism to say that no growth of cities , no growth of wealth , no industrial development can atone for any falling off in the character and standing of the farming population . During the last few decades this fact has been recognized with ever increasing clearness . There is no longer any failure to realize that farming , at least in certain branches , must become a technical and scientific profession . This means that there must be open to farmers the chance for technical and scientific training , not theoretical merely but of the most severely practical type . The farmer represents a peculiarly high type of American citizenship , and he must have the same chance to rise and develop as other American citizens have . Moreover , it is exactly as true of the farmer , as it is of the business man and the wageworker , that the ultimate success of the Nation of which he forms a part must be founded not alone on material prosperity but upon high moral , mental , and physical development . This education of the farmer self education by preference but also education from the outside , as with all other men is peculiarly necessary here in the United States , where the frontier conditions even in the newest States have now nearly vanished , where there must be a substitution of a more intensive system of cultivation for the old wasteful farm management , and where there must be a better business organization among the farmers themselves . Several factors must cooperate in the improvement of the farmer s condition . He must have the chance to be educated in the widest possible sense in the sense which keeps ever in view the intimate relationship between the theory of education and the facts of life . In all education we should widen our aims . It is a good thing to produce a certain number of trained scholars and students but the education superintended by the State must seek rather to produce a hundred good citizens than merely one scholar , and it must be turned now and then from the class book to the study of the great book of nature itself . This is especially true of the farmer , as has been pointed out again and again by all observers most competent to pass practical judgment on the problems of our country life . All students now realize that education must seek to train the executive powers of young people and to confer more real significance upon the phrase dignity of labor , and to prepare the pupils so that , in addition to each developing in the highest degree his individual capacity for work , they may together help create a right public opinion , and show in many ways social and cooperative spirit . Organization has become necessary in the business world and it has accomplished much for good in the world of labor . It is no less necessary for farmers . Such a movement as the grange movement is good in itself and is capable of a well nigh infinite further extension for good so long as it is kept to its own legitimate business . The benefits to be derived by the association of farmers for mutual advantage are partly economic and partly sociological . Moreover , while in the long run voluntary efforts will prove more efficacious than government assistance , while the farmers must primarily do most for themselves , yet the Government can also do much . The Department of Agriculture has broken new ground in many directions , and year by year it finds how it can improve its methods and develop fresh usefulness . Its constant effort is to give the governmental assistance in the most effective way that is , thru associations of farmers rather than to or thru individual farmers . It is also striving to coordinate its work with the agricultural departments of the several States , and so far as its own work is educational to coordinate it with the work of other educational authorities . Agricultural education is necessarily based upon general education , but our agricultural educational institutions are wisely specializing themselves , making their courses relate to the actual teaching of the agricultural and kindred sciences to young country people or young city people who wish to live in the country . Great progress has already been made among farmers by the creation of farmers institutes , of dairy associations , of breeders associations , horticultural associations , and the like . A striking example of how the Government and the farmers can cooperate is shown in connection with the menace offered to the cotton growers of the Southern States by the advance of the boll weevil . The Department is doing all it can to organize the farmers in the threatened districts , just as it has been doing all it can to organize them in aid of its work to eradicate the cattle fever tick in the South . The Department can and will cooperate with all such associations , and it must have their help if its own work is to be done in the most efficient style . Much is now being done for the States of the Rocky Mountains and Great Plains thru the development of the national policy of irrigation and forest preservation no Government policy for the betterment of our internal conditions has been more fruitful of good than this . The forests of the White Mountains and Southern Appalachian regions should also be preserved and they can not be unless the people of the States in which they lie , thru their representatives in the Congress , secure vigorous action by the National Government . I invite the attention of the Congress to the estimate of the Secretary of War for an appropriation to enable him to begin the preliminary work for the construction of a memorial amphitheater at Arlington . The Grand Army of the Republic in its national encampment has urged the erection of such an amphitheater as necessary for the proper observance Of Memorial Day and as a fitting monument to the soldier and sailor dead buried there . In this I heartily concur and commend the matter to the favorable consideration of the Congress . I am well aware of how difficult it is to pass a constitutional amendment . Nevertheless in my judgment the whole question of marriage and divorce should be relegated to the authority of the National Congress . At present the wide differences in the laws of the different States on this subject result in scandals and abuses and surely there is nothing so vitally essential to the welfare of the nation , nothing around which the nation should so bend itself to throw every safeguard , as the home life of the average citizen . The change would be good from every standpoint . In particular it would be good because it would confer on the Congress the power at once to deal radically and efficiently with polygamy and this should be done whether or not marriage and divorce are dealt with . It is neither safe nor proper to leave the question of polygamy to be dealt with by the several States . Power to deal with it should be conferred on the National Government . When home ties are loosened when men and women cease to regard a worthy family life , with all its duties fully performed , and all its responsibilities lived up to , as the life best worth living then evil days for the commonwealth are at hand . There are regions in our land , and classes of our population , where the birth rate has sunk below the death rate . Surely it should need no demonstration to show that wilful sterility is , from the standpoint of the nation , from the standpoint of the human race , the one sin for which the penalty is national death , race death a sin for which there is no atonement a sin which is the more dreadful exactly in proportion as the men and women guilty thereof are in other respects , in character , and bodily and mental powers , those whom for the sake of the state it would be well to see the fathers and mothers of many healthy children , well brought up in homes made happy by their presence . No man , no woman , can shirk the primary duties of life , whether for love of ease and pleasure , or for any other cause , and retain his or her self respect . Let me once again call the attention of the Congress to two subjects concerning which I have frequently before communicated with them . One is the question of developing American shipping . I trust that a law embodying in substance the views , or a major part of the views , exprest in the report on this subject laid before the House at its last session will be past . I am well aware that in former years objectionable measures have been proposed in reference to the encouragement of American shipping but it seems to me that the proposed measure is as nearly unobjectionable as any can be . It will of course benefit primarily our seaboard States , such as Maine , Louisiana , and Washington but what benefits part of our people in the end benefits all just as Government aid to irrigation and forestry in the West is really of benefit , not only to the Rocky Mountain States , but to all our country . If it prove impracticable to enact a law for the encouragement of shipping generally , then at least provision should be made for better communication with South America , notably for fast mail lines to the chief South American ports . It is discreditable to us that our business people , for lack of direct communication in the shape of lines of steamers with South America , should in that great sister continent be at a disadvantage compared to the business people of Europe . I especially call your attention to the second subject , the condition of our currency laws . The national bank act has ably served a great purpose in aiding the enormous business development of the country and within ten years there has been an increase in circulation per capita from 21 . 41 to 33 . 08 . For several years evidence has been accumulating that additional legislation is needed . The recurrence of each crop season emphasizes the defects of the present laws . There must soon be a revision of them , because to leave them as they are means to incur liability of business disaster . Since your body adjourned there has been a fluctuation in the interest on call money from 2 per cent to 30 per cent and the fluctuation was even greater during the preceding six months . The Secretary of the Treasury had to step in and by wise action put a stop to the most violent period of oscillation . Even worse than such fluctuation is the advance in commercial rates and the uncertainty felt in the sufficiency of credit even at high rates . All commercial interests suffer during each crop period . Excessive rates for call money in New York attract money from the interior banks into the speculative field this depletes the fund that would otherwise be available for commercial uses , and commercial borrowers are forced to pay abnormal rates so that each fall a tax , in the shape of increased interest charges , is placed on the whole commerce of the country . The mere statement of these has shows that our present system is seriously defective . There is need of a change . Unfortunately , however , many of the proposed changes must be ruled from consideration because they are complicated , are not easy of comprehension , and tend to , disturb existing rights and interests . We must also rule out any plan which would materially impair the value of the United States 2 per cent bonds now pledged to secure circulations , the issue of which was made under conditions peculiarly creditable to the Treasury . I do not press any especial plan . Various plans have recently been proposed by expert committees of bankers . Among the plans which are possibly feasible and which certainly should receive your consideration is that repeatedly brought to your attention by the present Secretary of the Treasury , the essential features of which have been approved by many prominent bankers and business men . According to this plan national banks should be permitted to issue a specified proportion of their capital in notes of a given kind , the issue to be taxed at so high a rate as to drive the notes back when not wanted in legitimate trade . This plan would not permit the issue of currency to give banks additional profits , but to meet the emergency presented by times of stringency . I do not say that this is the right system . I only advance it to emphasize my belief that there is need for the adoption of some system which shall be automatic and open to all sound banks , so as to avoid all possibility of discrimination and favoritism . Such a plan would tend to prevent the spasms of high money and speculation which now obtain in the New York market for at present there is too much currency at certain seasons of the year , and its accumulation at New York tempts bankers to lend it at low rates for speculative purposes whereas at other times when the crops are being moved there is urgent need for a large but temporary increase in the currency supply . It must never be forgotten that this question concerns business men generally quite as much as bankers especially is this true of stockmen , farmers , and business men in the West for at present at certain seasons of the year the difference in interest rates between the East and the West is from 6 to 10 per cent , whereas in Canada the corresponding difference is but 2 per cent . Any plan must , of course , guard the interests of western and southern bankers as carefully as it guards the interests of New York or Chicago bankers and must be drawn from the standpoints of the farmer and the merchant no less than from the standpoints of the city banker and the country banker . The law should be amended so as specifically to provide that the funds derived from customs duties may be treated by the Secretary of the Treasury as he treats funds obtained under the internal revenue laws . There should be a considerable increase in bills of small denominations . Permission should be given banks , if necessary under settled restrictions , to retire their circulation to a larger amount than three millions a month . I most earnestly hope that the bill to provide a lower tariff for or else absolute free trade in Philippine products will become a law . No harm will come to any American industry and while there will be some small but real material benefit to the Filipinos , the main benefit will come by the showing made as to our purpose to do all in our power for their welfare . So far our action in the Philippines has been abundantly justified , not mainly and indeed not primarily because of the added dignity it has given us as a nation by proving that we are capable honorably and efficiently to bear the international burdens which a mighty people should bear , but even more because of the immense benefit that has come to the people of the Philippine Islands . In these islands we are steadily introducing both liberty and order , to a greater degree than their people have ever before known . We have secured justice . We have provided an efficient police force , and have put down ladronism . Only in the islands of Leyte and Samar is the authority of our Government resisted and this by wild mountain tribes under the superstitious inspiration of fakirs and pseudo religions leaders . We are constantly increasing the measure of liberty accorded the islanders , and next spring , if conditions warrant , we shall take a great stride forward in testing their capacity for self government by summoning the first Filipino legislative assembly and the way in which they stand this test will largely determine whether the self government thus granted will be increased or decreased for if we have erred at all in the Philippines it has been in proceeding too rapidly in the direction of granting a large measure of self government . We are building roads . We have , for the immeasurable good of the people , arranged for the building of railroads . Let us also see to it that they are given free access to our markets . This nation owes no more imperative duty to itself and mankind than the duty of managing the affairs of all the islands under the American flag the Philippines , Porto Rico , and Hawaii so as to make it evident that it is in every way to their advantage that the flag should fly over them . American citizenship should be conferred on the citizens of Porto Rico . The harbor of San Juan in Porto Rico should be dredged and improved . The expenses of the federal court of Porto Rico should be met from the Federal Treasury . The administration of the affairs of Porto Rico , together with those of the Philippines , Hawaii , and our other insular possessions , should all be directed under one executive department by preference the Department of State or the Department of War . The needs of Hawaii are peculiar every aid should be given the islands and our efforts should be unceasing to develop them along the lines of a community of small freeholders , not of great planters with coolie tilled estates . Situated as this Territory is , in the middle of the Pacific , there are duties imposed upon this small community which do not fall in like degree or manner upon any other American community . This warrants our treating it differently from the way in which we treat Territories contiguous to or surrounded by sister Territories or other States , and justifies the setting aside of a portion of our revenues to be expended for educational and internal improvements therein . Hawaii is now making an effort to secure immigration fit in the end to assume the duties and burdens of full American citizenship , and whenever the leaders in the various industries of those islands finally adopt our ideals and heartily join our administration in endeavoring to develop a middle class of substantial citizens , a way will then be found to deal with the commercial and industrial problems which now appear to them so serious . The best Americanism is that which aims for stability and permanency of prosperous citizenship , rather than immediate returns on large masses of capital . Alaska s needs have been partially met , but there must be a complete reorganization of the governmental system , as I have before indicated to you . I ask your especial attention to this . Our fellow citizens who dwell on the shores of Puget Sound with characteristic energy are arranging to hold in Seattle the Alaska Yukon Pacific Exposition . Its special aims include the upbuilding of Alaska and the development of American commerce on the Pacific Ocean . This exposition , in its purposes and scope , should appeal not only to the people of the Pacific slope , but to the people of the United States at large . Alaska since it was bought has yielded to the Government eleven millions of dollars of revenue , and has produced nearly three hundred millions of dollars in gold , furs , and fish . When properly developed it will become in large degree a land of homes . The countries bordering the Pacific Ocean have a population more numerous than that of all the countries of Europe their annual foreign commerce amounts to over three billions of dollars , of which the share of the United States is some seven hundred millions of dollars . If this trade were thoroly understood and pushed by our manufacturers and producers , the industries not only of the Pacific slope , but of all our country , and particularly of our cotton growing States , would be greatly benefited . Of course , in order to get these benefits , we must treat fairly the countries with which we trade . It is a mistake , and it betrays a spirit of foolish cynicism , to maintain that all international governmental action is , and must ever be , based upon mere selfishness , and that to advance ethical reasons for such action is always a sign of hypocrisy . This is no more necessarily true of the action of governments than of the action of individuals . It is a sure sign of a base nature always to ascribe base motives for the actions of others . Unquestionably no nation can afford to disregard proper considerations of self interest , any more than a private individual can so do . But it is equally true that the average private individual in any really decent community does many actions with reference to other men in which he is guided , not by self interest , but by public spirit , by regard for the rights of others , by a disinterested purpose to do good to others , and to raise the tone of the community as a whole . Similarly , a really great nation must often act , and as a matter of fact often does act , toward other nations in a spirit not in the least of mere self interest , but paying heed chiefly to ethical reasons and as the centuries go by this disinterestedness in international action , this tendency of the individuals comprising a nation to require that nation to act with justice toward its neighbors , steadily grows and strengthens . It is neither wise nor right for a nation to disregard its own needs , and it is foolish and may be wicked to think that other nations will disregard theirs . But it is wicked for a nation only to regard its own interest , and foolish to believe that such is the sole motive that actuates any other nation . It should be our steady aim to raise the ethical standard of national action just as we strive to raise the ethical standard of individual action . Not only must we treat all nations fairly , but we must treat with justice and good will all immigrants who come here under the law . Whether they are Catholic or Protestant , Jew or Gentile whether they come from England or Germany , Russia , Japan , or Italy , matters nothing . All we have a right to question is the man s conduct . If he is honest and upright in his dealings with his neighbor and with the State , then he is entitled to respect and good treatment . Especially do we need to remember our duty to the stranger within our gates . It is the sure mark of a low civilization , a low morality , to abuse or discriminate against or in any way humiliate such stranger who has come here lawfully and who is conducting himself properly . To remember this is incumbent on every American citizen , and it is of course peculiarly incumbent on every Government official , whether of the nation or of the several States . I am prompted to say this by the attitude of hostility here and there assumed toward the Japanese in this country . This hostility is sporadic and is limited to a very few places . Nevertheless , it is most discreditable to us as a people , and it may be fraught with the gravest consequences to the nation . The friendship between the United States and Japan has been continuous since the time , over half a century ago , when Commodore Perry , by his expedition to Japan , first opened the islands to western civilization . Since then the growth of Japan has been literally astounding . There is not only nothing to parallel it , but nothing to approach it in the history of civilized mankind . Japan has a glorious and ancient past . Her civilization is older than that of the nations of northern Europe the nations from whom the people of the United States have chiefly sprung . But fifty years ago Japan s development was still that of the Middle Ages . During that fifty years the progress of the country in every walk in life has been a marvel to mankind , and she now stands as one of the greatest of civilized nations great in the arts of war and in the arts of peace great in military , in industrial , in artistic development and achievement . Japanese soldiers and sailors have shown themselves equal in combat to any of whom history makes note . She has produced great generals and mighty admirals her fighting men , afloat and ashore , show all the heroic courage , the unquestioning , unfaltering loyalty , the splendid indifference to hardship and death , which marked the Loyal Ronins and they show also that they possess the highest ideal of patriotism . Japanese artists of every kind see their products eagerly sought for in all lands . The industrial and commercial development of Japan has been phenomenal greater than that of any other country during the same period . At the same time the advance in science and philosophy is no less marked . The admirable management of the Japanese Red Cross during the late war , the efficiency and humanity of the Japanese officials , nurses , and doctors , won the respectful admiration of all acquainted with the facts . Thru the Red Cross the Japanese people sent over 100 , 000 to the sufferers of San Francisco , and the gift was accepted with gratitude by our people . The courtesy of the Japanese , nationally and individually , has become proverbial . To no other country has there been such an increasing number of visitors from this land as to Japan . In return , Japanese have come here in great numbers . They are welcome , socially and intellectually , in all our colleges and institutions of higher learning , in all our professional and social bodies . The Japanese have won in a single generation the right to stand abreast of the foremost and most enlightened peoples of Europe and America they have won on their own merits and by their own exertions the right to treatment on a basis of full and frank equality . The overwhelming mass of our people cherish a lively regard and respect for the people of Japan , and in almost every quarter of the Union the stranger from Japan is treated as he deserves that is , he is treated as the stranger from any part of civilized Europe is and deserves to be treated . But here and there a most unworthy feeling has manifested itself toward the Japanese the feeling that has been shown in shutting them out from the common schools in San Francisco , and in mutterings against them in one or two other places , because of their efficiency as workers . To shut them out from the public schools is a wicked absurdity , when there are no first class colleges in the land , including the universities and colleges of California , which do not gladly welcome Japanese students and on which Japanese students do not reflect credit . We have as much to learn from Japan as Japan has to learn from us and no nation is fit to teach unless it is also willing to learn . Thruout Japan Americans are well treated , and any failure on the part of Americans at home to treat the Japanese with a like courtesy and consideration is by just so much a confession of inferiority in our civilization . Our nation fronts on the Pacific , just as it fronts on the Atlantic . We hope to play a constantly growing part in the great ocean of the Orient . We wish , as we ought to wish , for a great commercial development in our dealings with Asia and it is out of the question that we should permanently have such development unless we freely and gladly extend to other nations the same measure of justice and good treatment which we expect to receive in return . It is only a very small body of our citizens that act badly . Where the Federal Government has power it will deal summarily with any such . Where the several States have power I earnestly ask that they also deal wisely and promptly with such conduct , or else this small body of wrongdoers may bring shame upon the great mass of their innocent and right thinking fellows that is , upon our nation as a whole . Good manners should be an international no less than an individual attribute . I ask fair treatment for the Japanese as I would ask fair treatment for Germans or Englishmen , Frenchmen , Russians , or Italians . I ask it as due to humanity and civilization . I ask it as due to ourselves because we must act uprightly toward all men . I recommend to the Congress that an act be past specifically providing for the naturalization of Japanese who come here intending to become American citizens . One of the great embarrassments attending the performance of our international obligations is the fact that the Statutes of the United States are entirely inadequate . They fail to give to the National Government sufficiently ample power , thru United States courts and by the use of the Army and Navy , to protect aliens in the rights secured to them under solemn treaties which are the law of the land . I therefore earnestly recommend that the criminal and civil statutes of the United States be so amended and added to as to enable the President , acting for the United States Government , which is responsible in our international relations , to enforce the rights of aliens under treaties . Even as the law now is something can be done by the Federal Government toward this end , and in the matter now before me affecting the Japanese everything that it is in my power to do will be done , and all of the forces , military and civil , of the United States which I may lawfully employ will be so employed . There should , however , be no particle of doubt as to the power of the National Government completely to perform and enforce its own obligations to other nations . The mob of a single city may at any time perform acts of lawless violence against some class of foreigners which would plunge us into war . That city by itself would be powerless to make defense against the foreign power thus assaulted , and if independent of this Government it would never venture to perform or permit the performance of the acts complained of . The entire power and the whole duty to protect the offending city or the offending community lies in the hands of the United States Government . It is unthinkable that we should continue a policy under which a given locality may be allowed to commit a crime against a friendly nation , and the United States Government limited , not to preventing the commission of the crime , but , in the last resort , to defending the people who have committed it against the consequences of their own wrongdoing . Last August an insurrection broke out in Cuba which it speedily grew evident that the existing Cuban Government was powerless to quell . This Government was repeatedly asked by the then Cuban Government to intervene , and finally was notified by the President of Cuba that he intended to resign that his decision was irrevocable that none of the other constitutional officers would consent to carry on the Government , and that he was powerless to maintain order . It was evident that chaos was impending , and there was every probability that if steps were not immediately taken by this Government to try to restore order the representatives of various European nations in the island would apply to their respective governments for armed intervention in order to protect the lives and property of their citizens . Thanks to the preparedness of our Navy , I was able immediately to send enough ships to Cuba to prevent the situation from becoming hopeless and I furthermore dispatched to Cuba the Secretary of War and the Assistant Secretary of State , in order that they might grapple with the situation on the ground . All efforts to secure an agreement between the contending factions , by which they should themselves come to an amicable understanding and settle upon some modus vivendi some provisional government of their own failed . Finally the President of the Republic resigned . The quorum of Congress assembled failed by deliberate purpose of its members , so that there was no power to act on his resignation , and the Government came to a halt . In accordance with the so called Platt amendment , which was embodied in the constitution of Cuba , I thereupon proclaimed a provisional government for the island , the Secretary of War acting as provisional governor until he could be replaced by Magoon , the late minister to Panama and governor of the Canal Zone on the Isthmus troops were sent to support them and to relieve the Navy , the expedition being handled with most satisfactory speed and efficiency . The insurgent chiefs immediately agreed that their troops should lay down their arms and disband and the agreement was carried out . The provisional government has left the personnel of the old government and the old laws , so far as might be , unchanged , and will thus administer the island for a few months until tranquillity . can be restored , a new election properly held , and a new government inaugurated . Peace has come in the island and the harvesting of the sugar cane crop , the great crop of the island , is about to proceed . When the election has been held and the new government inaugurated in peaceful and orderly fashion the provisional government will come to an end . I take this opportunity of expressing upon behalf of the American people , with all possible solemnity , our most earnest hope that the people of Cuba will realize the imperative need of preserving justice and keeping order in the Island . The United States wishes nothing of Cuba except that it shall prosper morally and materially , and wishes nothing of the Cubans save that they shall be able to preserve order among themselves and therefore to preserve their independence . If the elections become a farce , and if the insurrectionary habit becomes confirmed in the Island , it is absolutely out of the question that the Island should continue independent and the United States , which has assumed the sponsorship before the civilized world for Cuba s career as a nation , would again have to intervene and to see that the government was managed in such orderly fashion as to secure the safety cf life and property . The path to be trodden by those who exercise self government is always hard , and we should have every charity and patience with the Cubans as they tread this difficult path . I have the utmost sympathy with , and regard for , them but I most earnestly adjure them solemnly to weigh their responsibilities and to see that when their new government is started it shall run smoothly , and with freedom from flagrant denial of right on the one hand , and from insurrectionary disturbances on the other . The Second International Conference of American Republics , held in Mexico in the years 1901 2 , provided for the holding of the third conference within five years , and committed the fixing of the time and place and the arrangements for the conference to the governing board of the Bureau of American Republics , composed of the representatives of all the American nations in Washington . That board discharged the duty imposed upon it with marked fidelity and painstaking care , and upon the courteous invitation of the United States of Brazil the conference was held at Rio de Janeiro , continuing from the 23d of July to the 29th of August last . Many subjects of common interest to all the American nations were discust by the conference , and the conclusions reached , embodied in a series of resolutions and proposed conventions , will be laid before you upon the coming in of the final report of the American delegates . They contain many matters of importance relating to the extension of trade , the increase of communication , the smoothing away of barriers to free intercourse , and the promotion of a better knowledge and good understanding between the different countries represented . The meetings of the conference were harmonious and the conclusions were reached with substantial unanimity . It is interesting to observe that in the successive conferences which have been held the representatives of the different American nations have been learning to work together effectively , for , while the First Conference in Washington in 1889 , and the Second Conference in Mexico in 1901 2 , occupied many months , with much time wasted in an unregulated and fruitless discussion , the Third Conference at Rio exhibited much of the facility in the practical dispatch of business which characterizes permanent deliberative bodies , and completed its labors within the period of six weeks originally allotted for its sessions . Quite apart from the specific value of the conclusions reached by the conference , the example of the representatives of all the American nations engaging in harmonious and kindly consideration and discussion of subjects of common interest is itself of great and substantial value for the promotion of reasonable and considerate treatment of all international questions . The thanks of this country are due to the Government of Brazil and to the people of Rio de Janeiro for the generous hospitality with which our delegates , in common with the others , were received , entertained , and facilitated in their work . Incidentally to the meeting of the conference , the Secretary of State visited the city of Rio de Janeiro and was cordially received by the conference , of which he was made an honorary president . The announcement of his intention to make this visit was followed by most courteous and urgent invitations from nearly all the countries of South America to visit them as the guest of their Governments . It was deemed that by the acceptance of these invitations we might appropriately express the real respect and friendship in which we hold our sister Republics of the southern continent , and the Secretary , accordingly , visited Brazil , Uruguay , Argentina , Chile , Peru , Panama , and Colombia . He refrained from visiting Paraguay , Bolivia , and Ecuador only because the distance of their capitals from the seaboard made it impracticable with the time at his disposal . He carried with him a message of peace and friendship , and of strong desire for good understanding and mutual helpfulness and he was everywhere received in the spirit of his message . The members of government , the press , the learned professions , the men of business , and the great masses of the people united everywhere in emphatic response to his friendly expressions and in doing honor to the country and cause which he represented . In many parts of South America there has been much misunderstanding of the attitude and purposes of the United States towards the other American Republics . An idea had become prevalent that our assertion of the Monroe Doctrine implied , or carried with it , an assumption of superiority , and of a right to exercise some kind of protectorate over the countries to whose territory that doctrine applies . Nothing could be farther from the truth . Yet that impression continued to be a serious barrier to good understanding , to friendly intercourse , to the introduction of American capital and the extension of American trade . The impression was so widespread that apparently it could not be reached by any ordinary means . It was part of Secretary Root s mission to dispel this unfounded impression , and there is just cause to believe that he has succeeded . In an address to the Third Conference at Rio on the 31st of July an address of such note that I send it in , together with this message he said We wish for no victories but those of peace for no territory except our own for no sovereignty except the sovereignty over ourselves . We deem the independence and equal rights of the smallest and weakest member of the family of nations entitled to as much respect as those of the greatest empire , and we deem the observance of that respect the chief guaranty of the weak against the oppression of the strong . We neither claim nor desire any rights or privileges or powers that we do not freely concede to every American Republic . We wish to increase our prosperity , to extend our trade , to grow in wealth , in wisdom , and in spirit , but our conception of the true way to accomplish this is not to pull down others and profit by their ruin , but to help all friends to a common prosperity and a common growth , that we may all become greater and stronger together . Within a few months for the first time the recognized possessors of every foot of soil upon the American continents can be and I hope will be represented with the acknowledged rights of equal sovereign states in the great World Congress at The Hague . This will be the world s formal and final acceptance of the declaration that no part of the American continents is to be deemed subject to colonization . Let us pledge ourselves to aid each other in the full performance of the duty to humanity which that accepted declaration implies , so that in time the weakest and most unfortunate of our Republics may come to march with equal step by the side of the stronger and more fortunate . Let us help each other to show that for all the races of men the liberty for which we have fought and labored is the twin sister of justice and peace . Let us unite in creating and maintaining and making effective an all American public opinion , whose power shall influence international conduct and prevent international wrong , and narrow the causes of war , and forever preserve our free lands from the burden of such armaments as are massed behind the frontiers of Europe , and bring us ever nearer to the perfection of ordered liberty . So shall come security and prosperity , production and trade , wealth , learning , the arts , and happiness for us all . These words appear to have been received with acclaim in every part of South America . They have my hearty approval , as I am sure they will have yours , and I can not be wrong in the conviction that they correctly represent the sentiments of the whole American people . I can not better characterize the true attitude of the United States in its assertion of the Monroe Doctrine than in the words of the distinguished former minister of foreign affairs of Argentina , Doctor Drago , in his speech welcoming Root at Buenos Ayres . He spoke of The traditional policy of the United States which without accentuating superiority or seeking preponderance , condemned the oppression of the nations of this part of the world and the control of their destinies by the great Powers of Europe . It is gratifying to know that in the great city of Buenos Ayres , upon the arches which spanned the streets , entwined with Argentine and American flags for the reception of our representative , there were emblazoned not only the names of Washington and Jefferson and Marshall , but also , in appreciative recognition of their services to the cause of South American independence , the names of James Monroe , John Quincy Adams , Henry Clay , and Richard Rush . We take especial pleasure in the graceful courtesy of the Government of Brazil , which has given to the beautiful and stately building first used for the meeting of the conference the name of Palacio Monroe . Our grateful acknowledgments are due to the Governments and the people of all the countries visited by the Secretary of State for the courtesy , the friendship , and the honor shown to our country in their generous hospitality to him . In my message to you on the 5th of December , 1905 , I called your attention to the embarrassment that might be caused to this Government by the assertion by foreign nations of the right to collect by force of arms contract debts due by American republics to citizens of the collecting nation , and to the danger that the process of compulsory collection might result in the occupation of territory tending to become permanent . I then said Our own Government has always refused to enforce such contractual obligations on behalf of its citizens by an appeal to arms . It is much to be wisht that all foreign governments would take the same view . This subject was one of the topics of consideration at the conference at Rio and a resolution was adopted by that conference recommending to the respective governments represented to consider the advisability of asking the Second Peace Conference at The Hague to examine the question of the compulsory collection of public debts , and , in general , means tending to diminish among nations conflicts of purely pecuniary origin . This resolution was supported by the representatives of the United States in accordance with the following instructions It has long been the established policy of the United States not to use its armed forces for the collection of ordinary contract debts due to its citizens by other governments . We have not considered the use of force for such a purpose consistent with that respect for the independent sovereignty of other members of the family of nations which is the most important principle of international law and the chief protection of weak nations against the oppression of the strong . It seems to us that the practise is injurious in its general effect upon the relations of nations and upon the welfare of weak and disordered states , whose development ought to be encouraged in the interests of civilization that it offers frequent temptation to bullying and oppression and to unnecessary and unjustifiable warfare . We regret that other powers , whose opinions and sense of justice we esteem highly , have at times taken a different view and have permitted themselves , tho we believe with reluctance , to collect such debts by force . It is doubtless true that the non payment of public debts may be accompanied by such circumstances of fraud and wrongdoing or violation of treaties as to justify the use of force . This Government would be glad to see an international consideration of the subject which shall discriminate between such cases and the simple nonperformance of a contract with a private person , and a resolution in favor of reliance upon peaceful means in cases of the latter class . It is not felt , however , that the conference at Rio should undertake to make such a discrimination or to resolve upon such a rule . Most of the American countries are still debtor nations , while the countries of Europe are the creditors . If the Rio conference , therefore , were to take such action it would have the appearance of a meeting of debtors resolving how their creditors should act , and this would not inspire respect . The true course is indicated by the terms of the program , which proposes to request the Second Hague Conference , where both creditors and debtors will be assembled , to consider the subject . Last June trouble which had existed for some time between the Republics of Salvador , Guatemala , and Honduras culminated in war a war which threatened to be ruinous to the countries involved and very destructive to the commercial interests of Americans , Mexicans , and other foreigners who are taking an important part in the development of these countries . The thoroly good understanding which exists between the United States and Mexico enabled this Government and that of Mexico to unite in effective mediation between the warring Republics which mediation resulted , not without long continued and patient effort , in bringing about a meeting of the representatives of the hostile powers on board a United States warship as neutral territory , and peace was there concluded a peace which resulted in the saving of thousands of lives and in the prevention of an incalculable amount of misery and the destruction of property and of the means of livelihood . The Rio Conference past the following resolution in reference to this action That the Third International American Conference shall address to the Presidents of the United States of America and of the United States of Mexico a note in which the conference which is being held at Rio expresses its satisfaction at the happy results of their mediation for the celebration of peace between the Republics of Guatemala , Honduras , and Salvador . This affords an excellent example of one way in which the influence of the United States can properly be exercised for the benefit of the peoples of the Western Hemisphere that is , by action taken in concert with other American republics and therefore free from those suspicions and prejudices which might attach if the action were taken by one alone . In this way it is possible to exercise a powerful influence toward the substitution of considerate action in the spirit of justice for the insurrectionary or international violence which has hitherto been so great a hindrance to the development of many of our neighbors . Repeated examples of united action by several or many American republics in favor of peace , by urging cool and reasonable , instead of excited and belligerent , treatment of international controversies , can not fail to promote the growth of a general public opinion among the American nations which will elevate the standards of international action , strengthen the sense of international duty among governments , and tell in favor of the peace of mankind . I have just returned from a trip to Panama and shall report to you at length later on the whole subject of the Panama Canal . The Algeciras Convention , which was signed by the United States as well as by most of the powers of Europe , supersedes the previous convention of 1880 , which was also signed both by the United States and a majority of the European powers . This treaty confers upon us equal commercial rights with all European countries and does not entail a single obligation of any kind upon us , and I earnestly hope it may be speedily ratified . To refuse to ratify it would merely mean that we forfeited our commercial rights in Morocco and would not achieve another object of any kind . In the event of such refusal we would be left for the first time in a hundred and twenty years without any commercial treaty with Morocco and this at a time when we are everywhere seeking new markets and outlets for trade . The destruction of the Pribilof Islands fur seals by pelagic sealing still continues . The herd which , according to the surveys made in 1874 by direction of the Congress , numbered 4 , 700 , 000 , and which , according to the survey of both American and Canadian commissioners in 1891 , amounted to 1 , 000 , 000 , has now been reduced to about 180 , 000 . This result has been brought about by Canadian and some other sealing vessels killing the female seals while in the water during their annual pilgrimage to and from the south , or in search of food . As a rule the female seal when killed is pregnant , and also has an unweaned pup on land , so that , for each skin taken by pelagic sealing , as a rule , three lives are destroyed the mother , the unborn offspring , and the nursing pup , which is left to starve to death . No damage whatever is done to the herd by the carefully regulated killing on land the custom of pelagic sealing is solely responsible for all of the present evil , and is alike indefensible from the economic standpoint and from the standpoint of humanity . In 1896 over 16 , 000 young seals were found dead from starvation on the Pribilof Islands . In 1897 it was estimated that since pelagic sealing began upward of 400 , 000 adult female seals had been killed at sea , and over 300 , 000 young seals had died of starvation as the result . The revolting barbarity of such a practise , as well as the wasteful destruction which it involves , needs no demonstration and is its own condemnation . The Bering Sea Tribunal , which sat in Paris in 1893 , and which decided against the claims of the United States to exclusive jurisdiction in the waters of Bering Sea and to a property right in the fur seals when outside of the three mile limit , determined also upon certain regulations which the Tribunal considered sufficient for the proper protection and preservation of the fur seal . in , or habitually resorting to , the Bering Sea . The Tribunal by its regulations established a close season , from the 1st of May to the 31st of July , and excluded all killing in the waters within 60 miles around the Pribilof Islands . They also provided that the regulations which they had determined upon , with a view to the protection and preservation of the seals , should be submitted every five years to new examination , so as to enable both interested Governments to consider whether , in the light of past experience , there was occasion for any modification thereof . The regulations have proved plainly inadequate to accomplish the object of protection and preservation of the fur seals , and for a long time this Government has been trying in vain to secure from Great Britain such revision and modification of the regulations as were contemplated and provided for by the award of the Tribunal of Paris . The process of destruction has been accelerated during recent years by the appearance of a number of Japanese vessels engaged in pelagic sealing . As these vessels have not been bound even by the inadequate limitations prescribed by the Tribunal of Paris , they have paid no attention either to the close season or to the sixty mile limit imposed upon the Canadians , and have prosecuted their work up to the very islands themselves . On July 16 and 17 the crews from several Japanese vessels made raids upon the island of Paul , and before they were beaten off by the very meager and insufficiently armed guard , they succeeded in killing several hundred seals and carrying off the skins of most of them . Nearly all the seals killed were females and the work was done with frightful barbarity . Many of the seals appear to have been skinned alive and many were found half skinned and still alive . The raids were repelled only by the use of firearms , and five of the raiders were killed , two were wounded , and twelve captured , including the two wounded . Those captured have since been tried and sentenced to imprisonment . An attack of this kind had been wholly unlookt for , but such provision of vessels , arms , and ammunition will now be made that its repetition will not be found profitable . Suitable representations regarding the incident have been made to the Government of Japan , and we are assured that all practicable measures will be taken by that country to prevent any recurrence of the outrage . On our part , the guard on the island will be increased and better equipped and organized , and a better revenue cutter patrol service about the islands will be established next season a United States war vessel will also be sent there . We have not relaxed our efforts to secure an agreement with Great Britain for adequate protection of the seal herd , and negotiations with Japan for the same purpose are in progress . The laws for the protection of the seals within the jurisdiction of the United States need revision and amendment . Only the islands of Paul and George are now , in terms , included in the Government reservation , and the other islands are also to be included . The landing of aliens as well as citizens upon the islands , without a permit from the Department of Commerce and Labor , for any purpose except in case of stress of weather or for water , should be prohibited under adequate penalties . The approach of vessels for the excepted purposes should be regulated . The authority of the Government agents on the islands should be enlarged , and the chief agent should have the powers of a committing magistrate . The entrance of a vessel into the territorial waters surrounding the islands with intent to take seals should be made a criminal offense and cause of forfeiture . Authority for seizures in such cases should be given and the presence on any such vessel of seals or sealskins , or the paraphernalia for taking them , should be made prima facie evidence of such intent . I recommend what legislation is needed to accomplish these ends and I commend to your attention the report of Sims , of the Department of Commerce and Labor , on this subject . In case we are compelled to abandon the hope of making arrangements with other governments to put an end to the hideous cruelty now incident to pelagic sealing , it will be a question for your serious consideration how far we should continue to protect and maintain the seal herd on land with the result of continuing such a practise , and whether it is not better to end the practice by exterminating the herd ourselves in the most humane way possible . In my last message I advised you that the Emperor of Russia had taken the initiative in bringing about a second peace conference at The Hague . Under the guidance of Russia the arrangement of the preliminaries for such a conference has been progressing during the past year . Progress has necessarily been slow , owing to the great number of countries to be consulted upon every question that has arisen . It is a matter of satisfaction that all of the American Republics have now , for the first time , been invited to join in the proposed conference . The close connection between the subjects to be taken up by the Red Cross Conference held at Geneva last summer and the subjects which naturally would come before The Hague Conference made it apparent that it was desirable to have the work of the Red Cross Conference completed and considered by the different powers before the meeting at The Hague . The Red Cross Conference ended its labors on the 6th day of July , and the revised and amended convention , which was signed by the American delegates , will be promptly laid before the Senate . By the special and highly appreciated courtesy of the Governments of Russia and the Netherlands , a proposal to call The Hague Conference together at a time which would conflict with the Conference of the American Republics at Rio de Janeiro in August was laid aside . No other date has yet been suggested . A tentative program for the conference has been proposed by the Government of Russia , and the subjects which it enumerates are undergoing careful examination and consideration in preparation for the conference . It must ever be kept in mind that war is not merely justifiable , but imperative , upon honorable men , upon an honorable nation , where peace can only be obtained by the sacrifice of conscientious conviction or of national welfare . Peace is normally a great good , and normally it coincides with righteousness but it is righteousness and not peace which should bind the conscience of a nation as it should bind the conscience of an individual and neither a nation nor an individual can surrender conscience to another s keeping . Neither can a nation , which is an entity , and which does not die as individuals die , refrain from taking thought for the interest of the generations that are to come , no less than for the interest of the generation of to day and no public men have a right , whether from shortsightedness , from selfish indifference , or from sentimentality , to sacrifice national interests which are vital in character . A just war is in the long run far better for a nation s soul than the most prosperous peace obtained by acquiescence in wrong or injustice . Moreover , tho it is criminal for a nation not to prepare for war , so that it may escape the dreadful consequences of being defeated in war , yet it must always be remembered that even to be defeated in war may be far better than not to have fought at all . As has been well and finely said , a beaten nation is not necessarily a disgraced nation but the nation or man is disgraced if the obligation to defend right is shirked . We should as a nation do everything in our power for the cause of honorable peace . It is morally as indefensible for a nation to commit a wrong upon another nation , strong or weak , as for an individual thus to wrong his fellows . We should do all in our power to hasten the day when there shall be peace among the nations a peace based upon justice and not upon cowardly submission to wrong . We can accomplish a good deal in this direction , but we can not accomplish everything , and the penalty of attempting to do too much would almost inevitably be to do worse than nothing for it must be remembered that fantastic extremists are not in reality leaders of the causes which they espouse , but are ordinarily those who do most to hamper the real leaders of the cause and to damage the cause itself . As yet there is no likelihood of establishing any kind of international power , of whatever sort , which can effectively check wrongdoing , and in these circumstances it would be both a foolish and an evil thing for a great and free nation to deprive itself of the power to protect its own rights and even in exceptional cases to stand up for the rights of others . Nothing would more promote iniquity , nothing would further defer the reign upon earth of peace and righteousness , than for the free and enlightened peoples which , tho with much stumbling and many shortcomings , nevertheless strive toward justice , deliberately to render themselves powerless while leaving every despotism and barbarism armed and able to work their wicked will . The chance for the settlement of disputes peacefully , by arbitration , now depends mainly upon the possession by the nations that mean to do right of sufficient armed strength to make their purpose effective . The United States Navy is the surest guarantor of peace which this country possesses . It is earnestly to be wisht that we would profit by the teachings of history in this matter . A strong and wise people will study its own failures no less than its triumphs , for there is wisdom to be learned from the study of both , of the mistake as well as of the success . For this purpose nothing could be more instructive than a rational study of the war of 1812 , as it is told , for instance , by Captain Mahan . There was only one way in which that war could have been avoided . If during the preceding twelve years a navy relatively as strong as that which this country now has had been built up , and an army provided relatively as good as that which the country now has , there never would have been the slightest necessity of fighting the war and if the necessity had arisen the war would under such circumstances have ended with our speedy and overwhelming triumph . But our people during those twelve years refused to make any preparations whatever , regarding either the Army or the Navy . They saved a million or two of dollars by so doing and in mere money paid a hundredfold for each million they thus saved during the three years of war which followed a war which brought untold suffering upon our people , which at one time threatened the gravest national disaster , and which , in spite of the necessity of waging it , resulted merely in what was in effect a drawn battle , while the balance of defeat and triumph was almost even . I do not ask that we continue to increase our Navy . I ask merely that it be maintained at its present strength and this can be done only if we replace the obsolete and outworn ships by new and good ones , the equals of any afloat in any navy . To stop building ships for one year means that for that year the Navy goes back instead of forward . The old battle ship Texas , for instance , would now be of little service in a stand up fight with a powerful adversary . The old double turret monitors have outworn their usefulness , while it was a waste of money to build the modern single turret monitors . All these ships should be replaced by others and this can be done by a well settled program of providing for the building each year of at least one first class battle ship equal in size and speed to any that any nation is at the same time building the armament presumably to consist of as large a number as possible of very heavy guns of one caliber , together with smaller guns to repel torpedo attack while there should be heavy armor , turbine engines , and in short , every modern device . Of course , from time to time , cruisers , colliers , torpedo boat destroyers or torpedo boats , Will have to be built also . All this , be it remembered , would not increase our Navy , but would merely keep it at its present strength . Equally of course , the ships will be absolutely useless if the men aboard them are not so trained that they can get the best possible service out of the formidable but delicate and complicated mechanisms intrusted to their care . The marksmanship of our men has so improved during the last five years that I deem it within bounds to say that the Navy is more than twice as efficient , ship for ship , as half a decade ago . The Navy can only attain proper efficiency if enough officers and men are provided , and if these officers and men are given the chance and required to take advantage of it to stay continually at sea and to exercise the fleets singly and above all in squadron , the exercise to be of every kind and to include unceasing practise at the guns , conducted under conditions that will test marksmanship in time of war . In both the Army and the Navy there is urgent need that everything possible should be done to maintain the highest standard for the personnel , alike as regards the officers and the enlisted men . I do not believe that in any service there is a finer body of enlisted men and of junior officer than we have in both the Army and the Navy , including the Marine Corps . All possible encouragement to the enlisted men should be given , in pay and otherwise , and everything practicable done to render the service attractive to men of the right type . They should be held to the strictest discharge of their duty , and in them a spirit should be encouraged which demands not the mere performance of duty , but the performance of far more than duty , if it conduces to the honor and the interest of the American nation and in return the amplest consideration should be theirs . West Point and Annapolis already turn out excellent officers . We do not need to have these schools made more scholastic . On the contrary we should never lose sight of the fact that the aim of each school is to turn out a man who shall be above everything else a fighting man . In the Army in particular it is not necessary that either the cavalry or infantry officer should have special mathematical ability . Probably in both schools the best part of the education is the high standard of character and of professional morale which it confers . But in both services there is urgent need for the establishment of a principle of selection which will eliminate men after a certain age if they can not be promoted from the subordinate ranks , and which will bring into the higher ranks fewer men , and these at an earlier age . This principle of selection will be objected to by good men of mediocre capacity , who are fitted to do well while young in the lower positions , but who are not fitted to do well when at an advanced age they come into positions of command and of great responsibility . But the desire of these men to be promoted to positions which they are not competent to fill should not weigh against the interest of the Navy and the country . At present our men , especially in the Navy , are kept far too long in the junior grades , and then , at much too advanced an age , are put quickly thru the senior grades , often not attaining to these senior grades until they are too old to be of real use in them and if they are of real use , being put thru them so quickly that little benefit to the Navy comes from their having been in them at all . The Navy has one great advantage over the Army in the fact that the officers of high rank are actually trained in the continual performance of their duties that is , in the management of the battle ships and armored cruisers gathered into fleets . This is not true of the army officers , who rarely have corresponding chances to exercise command over troops under service conditions . The conduct of the Spanish war showed the lamentable loss of life , the useless extravagance , and the inefficiency certain to result , if during peace the high officials of the War and Navy Departments are praised and rewarded only if they save money at no matter what cost to the efficiency of the service , and if the higher officers are given no chance whatever to exercise and practise command . For years prior to the Spanish war the Secretaries of War were praised chiefly if they practised economy which economy , especially in connection with the quartermaster , commissary , and medical departments , was directly responsible for most of the mismanagement that occurred in the war itself and parenthetically be it observed that the very people who clamored for the misdirected economy in the first place were foremost to denounce the mismanagement , loss , and suffering which were primarily due to this same misdirected economy and to the lack of preparation it involved . There should soon be an increase in the number of men for our coast defenses these men should be of the right type and properly trained and there should therefore be an increase of pay for certain skilled grades , especially in the coast artillery . Money should be appropriated to permit troops to be massed in body and exercised in maneuvers , particularly in marching . Such exercise during the summer just past has been of incalculable benefit to the Army and should under no circumstances be discontinued . If on these practise marches and in these maneuvers elderly officers prove unable to bear the strain , they should be retired at once , for the fact is conclusive as to their unfitness for war that is , for the only purpose because of which they should be allowed to stay in the service . It is a real misfortune to have scores of small company or regimental posts scattered thruout the country the Army should be gathered in a few brigade or division posts and the generals should be practised in handling the men in masses . Neglect to provide for all of this means to incur the risk of future disaster and disgrace . The readiness and efficiency of both the Army and Navy in dealing with the recent sudden crisis in Cuba illustrate afresh their value to the Nation . This readiness and efficiency would have been very much less had it not been for the existence of the General Staff in the Army and the General Board in the Navy both are essential to the proper development and use of our military forces afloat and ashore . The troops that were sent to Cuba were handled flawlessly . It was the swiftest mobilization and dispatch of troops over sea ever accomplished by our Government . The expedition landed completely equipped and ready for immediate service , several of its organizations hardly remaining in Havana over night before splitting up into detachments and going to their several posts , It was a fine demonstration of the value and efficiency of the General Staff . Similarly , it was owing in large part to the General Board that the Navy was able at the outset to meet the Cuban crisis with such instant efficiency ship after ship appearing on the shortest notice at any threatened point , while the Marine Corps in particular performed indispensable service . The Army and Navy War Colleges are of incalculable value to the two services , and they cooperate with constantly increasing efficiency and importance . The Congress has most wisely provided for a National Board for the promotion of rifle practise . Excellent results have already come from this law , but it does not go far enough . Our Regular Army is so small that in any great war we should have to trust mainly to volunteers and in such event these volunteers should already know how to shoot for if a soldier has the fighting edge , and ability to take care of himself in the open , his efficiency on the line of battle is almost directly Proportionate to excellence in marksmanship . We should establish shooting galleries in all the large public and military schools , should maintain national target ranges in different parts of the country , and should in every way encourage the formation of rifle clubs thruout all parts of the land . The little Republic of Switzerland offers us an excellent example in all matters connected with building up an efficient citizen soldiery .<speech_sep>To the Senate and House of Representatives I transmit herewith the report of James Bronson Reynolds and Commissioner Charles Neill , the special committee whom I appointed to investigate into the conditions in the stock yards of Chicago and report thereon to me . This report is of a preliminary nature . I submit it to you now because it shows the urgent need of immediate action by the Congress in the direction of providing a drastic and thoroughgoing inspection by the Federal government of all stockyards and packing houses and of their products , so far as the latter enter into interstate or foreign commerce . The conditions shown by even this short inspection to exist in the Chicago stock yards are revolting . It is imperatively necessary in the interest of health and of decency that they should be radically changed . Under the existing law it is wholly impossible to secure satisfactory results . When my attention was first directed to this matter an investigation was made under the Bureau of Animal Industry of the Department of Agriculture . When the preliminary statements of this investigation were brought to my attention they showed such defects in the law and such wholly unexpected conditions that I deemed it best to have a further immediate investigation by men not connected with the bureau , and accordingly appointed Reynolds and Neill . It was impossible under existing law that satisfactory work should be done by the Bureau of Animal Industry . I am now , however , examining the way in which the work actually was done . Before I had received the report of Reynolds and Neill I had directed that labels placed upon any package of meat food products should state only that the carcass of the animal from which the meat was taken had been inspected at the time of slaughter . If inspection of meat food products at all stages of preparation is not secured by the passage of the legislation recommended I shall feel compelled to order that inspection labels and certificates on canned products shall not be used hereafter . The report shows that the stock yards and packing houses are not kept even reasonably clean , and that the method of handling and preparing food products is uncleanly and dangerous to health . Under existing law the National Government has no power to enforce inspection of the many forms of prepared meat food products that are daily going from the packing houses into interstate commerce . Owing to an inadequate appropriation the Department of Agriculture is not even able to place inspectors in all establishments desiring them . The present law prohibits the shipment of uninspected meat to foreign countries , but there is no provision forbidding the shipment of uninspected meats in interstate commerce , and thus the avenues of interstate commerce are left open to traffic in diseased or spoiled meats . If , as has been alleged on seemingly good authority , further evils exist , such as the improper use of chemicals and dyes , the Government lacks power to remedy them . A law is needed which will enable the inspectors of the general Government to inspect and supervise from the hoof to the can the preparation of the meat food product . The evil seems to be much less in the sale of dressed carcases than in the sale of canned and other prepared products and very much less as regards products sent abroad than as regards those used at home . In my judgment the expense of the inspection should be paid by a fee levied on each animal slaughtered . If this is not done , the whole purpose of the law can at any time be defeated through an insufficient appropriation and whenever there was no particular public interest in the subject it would be not only easy , but natural thus to make the appropriation insufficient . If it were not for this consideration I should favor the government paying for the inspection . The alarm expressed in certain quarters concerning this feature should be allayed by a realization of the fact that in no case , under such a law , will the cost of inspection exceed 8 cents per head . I call special attention to the fact that this report is preliminary , and that the investigation is still unfinished . It is not yet possible to report on the alleged abuses in the use of deleterious chemical compounds in connection with canning and preserving meat products , nor on the alleged doctoring in this fashion of tainted meat and of products returned to the packers as having grown unsalable or unusable from age or from other reasons . Grave allegations are made in reference to abuses of this nature . Let me repeat that under the present law there is practically no method of stopping these abuses if they should be discovered to exist . Legislation is needed in order to prevent the possibility of all abuses in the future . If no legislation is passed , then the excellent results accomplished by the work of this special committee will endure only so long as the memory of the committee s work is fresh , and a recrudescence of the abuses is absolutely certain . I urge the immediate enactment into law of provisions which will enable the Department of Agriculture adequately to inspect the meat and meat food products entering into interstate commerce and to supervise the methods of preparing the same , and to prescribe the sanitary conditions under which the work shall be performed . I therefore commend to your favorable consideration , and urge the enactment of substantially the provisions known as Senate amendment No . 29 to the act making appropriations for the Department of Agriculture for the fiscal year ending June 30 , 1907 , as passed by the Senate , this amendment being commonly known as the Beveridge amendment .<speech_sep>