Hello , Warrensburg Hello , Mules Hello , Jennies Well , I know it is hot . That is why I took off my jacket . If you have still got yours on feel free to take it off . It is great to be back in Missouri . It is great to be back in the Midwest . It is great to be here at UC I want to thank your outstanding president , Chuck Ambrose , for having me here today . Give Brian a big round of applause for the introduction . You have got your outstanding governor , Jay Nixon , in the house . Your mayor , Charlie Rutt , is here . And I brought a special guest with me who is celebrating her birthday today your senator , Claire McCaskill . I figured the least I could do is give her a ride on Air Force One for her birthday . So we have got Mules in the house . We have got Jennies in the house . We have got governors , we have got senators , and now we have probably got some very confused people watching at home , because who is Jennie I want to thank all the students who came out on a summer afternoon . I know that summer is especially a day as pretty as today , it is tempting to be outside . I know classes do not start for a few more weeks . You could be over on Pine Street beating the heat . Now that I think about it , it may be good that you are here instead of getting into trouble . I have just come from Knox College in Galesburg , Illinois , where I gave a pretty long speech on the economy . I will not repeat the whole thing here . But what I did want to talk about today is what I have talked about when I gave my first big speech as a senator eight years ago , and that is where we as a country need to go to give every American a chance to get ahead in the 21st century . And UCM understands how important that is . Just a little context here in the period after World War Iyou had a growing middle class that was the engine of our prosperity . The economy did well in part because everybody was participating . And whether you owned a company , or you swept the floors of that company , or you worked anywhere in between , America offered a basic bargain If you work hard , then you will be rewarded with fair wages and benefits . You will have the chance to buy your own home . You will have the chance to save for retirement . You will have the protection of decent health insurance . But most of all , you will have the chance to pass on a better life to your kids . And then what happened was that engine began to stall . The bargain began to fray . So technology made some jobs obsolete nobody goes to a bank teller anymore . You want to schedule a trip somewhere , you get online . Global competition sent some jobs overseas . When I was in Galesburg , we talked about the Maytag plant that used to make household brands there and people thousands of people used to work in the plant and it went down to Mexico . Then Washington doled out bigger tax cuts to folks at the top income brackets , smaller minimum wage increases for people who were struggling . You combine all this and the income of the top 1 percent quadrupled from 1979 to 2007 , but the typical family s incomes barely budged . So a lot of middle class families began to feel that the odds were stacked against them and they were right . And then for a while , this was kind of papered over because we had a housing bubble going on , and everybody was maxing out on their credit cards , everybody was highly leveraged , there were a lot of financial deals going around . And so it looked like the economy was going to be doing okay , but then by the time I took office , the bottom had fallen out . And it cost , as we know , millions of Americans their jobs or their homes or their savings . And that long term erosion of middle class security was evident for everybody to see . Now , the good news is , five years later , five years after the crisis first hit , America has fought its way back . So together , we saved an auto industry . We took on a broken health care system . We invested in new American technologies to reverse our addiction to foreign oil . We doubled the production of clean energy . Natural gas took off . We put in place tough new rules on big banks and mortgage lenders and credit card companies . We changed the tax code so it was fair for middle class folks and did not just benefit folks at the very top like me . No , it is true , because things were skewed too much towards folks who were already blessed , already lucky . And you take all that together and now you add it all up . What we have seen is over the past 40 months , our businesses have created more than 7 . 2 million new jobs . This year , we are off to our strongest private sector job growth since 1999 . Our exports have surged , so we sell more products made in America to the rest of the world than ever before . We produce more natural gas than any country on Earth . We are about to produce more of our own oil than we buy from overseas , and that is the first time that is happened in nearly 20 years . The cost of health care is growing at its slowest rate in 50 years , so we are slowing the growth of health care costs . And our deficits are falling at the fastest rate in 60 years . Deficits have been cut by almost half from the time I took office . So we did this together , because Americans are gritty and resilient and work hard . We have been able to clear away the rubble of the financial crisis . We are starting to lay a new foundation for more durable economic growth . And with the new revolutions in energy and technology and manufacturing and health care , we are actually poised we are in a position to reverse all those forces that battered middle class families for too long . We can start building now an economy where everybody who works hard can get ahead . That is all good . That is the good news . But , Missouri , I am here to tell you what you already know , which is we are not there yet . In some ways , the trends that have been building for decades this winner take all economy where a few do better and better , but everybody else just treads water all those trends were made worse by the recession . And reversing these trends has to be Washington s number one priority . It has to be Washington s number one priority . Putting people back to work , making sure the economy is working for everybody , building the middle class , making sure they are secure that is my highest priority . That is what I am interested in . Because when the economy is working for middle class families , it solves an awful lot of other problems . Now the poor start having ladders of opportunity they can climb into if they work hard . A lot of the social tensions are reduced , because everybody is feeling pretty good . Now , unfortunately , over the past couple of years in particular , Washington has not just ignored this problem they have actually made it worse . And I am interested in working with everybody , and there are a bunch of not just Democrats , but also Republicans who recognize that Washington is not working . But we have also seen a group of folks , particularly in the House , a group of Republicans in Congress that they suggested they would not vote to pay the bills that Congress had already run up . And that fiasco harmed a fragile recovery back in 2011 . We have got a growing number of Republican senators who are trying to get things done with their Democratic counterparts just passed an immigration bill that economists say is going to boost our economy by more than a trillion dollars . But so far , at least , there is a faction of House Republicans who will not let the bill go to the floor for a vote . And if you ask them , well , okay , what is your economic agenda for the middle class , how are we going to grow our economy so everybody prospers , they will start talking about out of control government spending although , as I said , government spending has actually gone down and deficits are going down or they will talk about Obamacare , the whole idea that somehow if we do not provide health insurance to 50 million Americans that is going to improve the economy . Never mind the fact that our jobs growth is a lot faster now than it was during the last recovery when Obamacare was not around . So we have got some basic challenges that we are just going to have to meet . We have cut our deficit . We are creating jobs at nearly twice the pace . We are providing health care for Americans that need it . But we now have to get back and focus on what is important . An endless parade of distractions and political posturing and phony scandals cannot get in the way of what we need to do . And I am here to say it is got to stop . We have got to focus on jobs and the economy , and helping middle class families get ahead . And if we do that , we are going to solve a whole lot of problems . And as we are thinking about these issues , we cannot get involved in short term thinking . We cannot have all the same old debates . That is not what the moment requires . We have got to focus on the core economic issues that matter to you . And as Washington is now preparing for another debate about the budget , the stakes could not be higher . If we do not make the investments America needs to make this country a magnet for good jobs , if we do not make investments in education and manufacturing and science and research and transportation and information networks , we will be waving the white flag while other countries forge ahead in a global economy . If we just stand by and do nothing , we are saying it is okay for middle class folks to keep taking it on the chin . And I do not think it is okay . And that is why I came here to Warrensburg today . I need you involved in this debate to remind Washington what is at stake . And over the next several weeks , in towns just like this one , I am going to lay out my ideas for how we build on the cornerstones of what it means to be middle class , what it takes to work your way into the middle class a good job with good wages in durable , growing industries a good education for our kids and our workers a home to call your own affordable health care that is there for you when you or your family members get sick a secure retirement even if you are not rich more ladders of opportunity for people who want to earn their way into the middle class as long as they are willing to work for it . And what we need what we need is not a three month plan , or even a three year plan we need a long term plan based on steady , persistent effort to reverse the forces that have conspired against middle class families for decades . And I am confident I know there are members of both parties who understand what is at stake . So I welcome ideas from anybody across the political spectrum . But I am not going to allow gridlock or inaction or willful indifference to get in this country s way . We have got to get moving . So where I can act on my own , I am going to . I am not going to wait for Congress . Because the choices that we make now are not just going to determine what happens to the young people here at this school , it is going to determine what happens to your kids and your grandkids . So one thing I really want to focus on here , because UCM is doing some extraordinary things , I want to focus on just briefly that second cornerstone an education that prepares our kids and our workers for the global competition that you will face . That is why I wanted to highlight what is happening here at the University of Central Missouri , because you guys are doing some things right . In an age where business knows no borders , jobs are going to seek out the countries that have the most talented , skilled citizens , and those are the folks who are going to make a good living . The days when the wages for a worker with a high school degree could keep pace with the earnings of somebody with a college degree those days are over . You can see it all throughout the Midwest , where you have got folks who a generation ago could just walk into a factory or a plant , did not have a lot of skills , get trained on the job , make a good living , live out a middle class life . That is not going to happen anymore . Technology , global competition those things are not going away . So we can either throw up our hands and resign ourselves to lower living standards , or we can do what America has always done we can adapt , we can pull together , we can fight back , we can win . And if we do not invest in American education , then we are going to put our kids , our workers , our countries , our businesses at a competitive disadvantage . Because if you think it is if you think education is expensive , you should see how much ignorance is going to cost in the 21st century . It is going to be expensive . So what do we need to do on education Number one , it is got to start in the earliest years . And that means working with states to make high quality preschool available for every four year old in America . Every study shows this is a smart investment , encourages healthy behaviors , increases our kids success in the classroom , increases their earning power as they grow up , reduces rates of teen pregnancy , reduces criminal behavior . It is really important . And any working parent will tell you that knowing your kid is in a safe place to learn is a big relief , so it is also important for the parents . This idea of early childhood education , it should not be partisan . States with Republican governors are doing it just like a lot of Democratic governors are doing it . Our kids do not care about politics . We should prove that we care about them and make this thing happen . And I am going to keep on pushing , as long as I am President , until we have a situation where every kid is getting a good , healthy start in life and are prepared when they go to school . We are going to take action on proven ideas to upgrade our schools that do not require Congress . So for example , last month , I announced a goal of connecting 99 percent of America s students to high speed Internet within five years . We are going ahead and taking steps for that to happen right now . Now , some of you may have gone to schools where you had internet in every classroom , but a lot of schools right now , they have got maybe a computer lab , but if you go in the classroom , kids , they do not have it . In America , in this country , every child at every desk should have access to the entire world s information , and every teacher should have the cutting edge technology to help their kids succeed and learn . We are going to make that happen . We have got to rethink our high schools so that our kids graduate with the real world skills that this new age demands . We have got to reward the schools that forge partnerships with local colleges and businesses , and that focus on the fields of the future like science and technology and math and engineering . And I am going to use the power of my office over the next few months to highlight a topic that affects probably everybody here , and that is the soaring cost of higher education . Now , three years ago , I worked with Democrats to reform the student loan system so that taxpayer dollars were not going to pad the pockets of big banks , and instead were going to help students get a college education . So millions of students were helped by that . We took action to cap loan repayments at 10 percent of monthly incomes for responsible borrowers . A lot of young people do not know this , but if you have taken out federal loans , then if you choose a job , let us say , that does not pay as much as you had like or you deserve , if you are a teacher or some other profession , you only have to pay 10 percent of your income , which means that you can afford to go to college and know that you are not going to be broke when you graduate which is important . And not enough young people are using this . As we speak and then , as we speak , we are working with both parties to reverse the doubling of student loan rates that happened a few weeks ago because Congress did not get its act together . We have got to get student loan rates interest rates back down . So these are all good steps , but here s the problem and this is where what is happening at University of Central Missouri is so important . We can put more and more money into student loans , we can put more and more money into grants , but if college costs keep on going up , then there is never going to be enough money . I can keep student loan rates low , but if you are borrowing 80 , 000 for college , or 100 , 000 and you get out , it does not matter whether interest rate is 3 . 5 or 8 . 5 , you are still going to have trouble repaying it . It will take you longer to buy a house . If you have got an idea for a business , it is going to take you longer to invest in starting your business . So we have got to do something about college costs . Families and taxpayers cannot just keep paying more and more into an undisciplined system . We have got to get a better bang for our buck . So states have to do their part by prioritizing higher education in their budgets because part of the reason tuition has been skyrocketing is colleges are not state funded colleges are not getting as much funding , and so then tuition is going up on the backs of students and families . But we have also got to test new ways of funding based not just on how many students enroll , but how well they do . And colleges have to do their part by keeping costs from going up . So here at Central Missouri , you are a laboratory for this kind of innovation . I had a great discussion with not only the president of this university but also the superintendent of schools here , the head of the community colleges . What is happened at UCM is you have partnered with the Lee s Summit School District , with the Metropolitan Community College , with local health care , engineering , energy , and infrastructure firms all industries that are going to drive job growth in the future and everybody is now working together to equip students with better skills , allow them to graduate faster with less debt , and with the certainty of being able to get a job at the other end . That is a recipe for success over the long term . So we have got students at Summit Technology Academy there we go . Those students , they are beginning to accrue credits towards an associate s degree while they are still in high school , which means they can come here to earn a bachelor s degree in two years and graduate debt free . Debt free , on a fast track . And because the community colleges and industries are involved , students are making quicker decisions about the industries that are going to create jobs , and the businesses are helping to design the programs to make sure that they have the skills for those jobs so that not only are you graduating debt free , but you also know that you have got a job waiting for you on the other end . Now , that is exactly the kind of innovation we need when it comes to college costs . That is what is happening right here in Warrensburg . And I want the entire country to notice it , and I want other colleges to take a look at what is being done here . And I have asked my team to shake the trees all across the country for some of the best ideas out there for keeping college costs down , so that as students prepare to go back to school , I am in a position to lay out what is going to be an aggressive strategy to shake up the system to make sure that middle class students , working class students , poor kids who have the drive and the wherewithal and want to get a good college education , they can get it without basically mortgaging their entire future . We can make this happen but this is an example of the kind of thing we have got to focus on instead of a bunch of distractions in Washington . Tackling college costs , creating more good jobs , establishing a better bargain for middle class families and everybody trying to work to join into it , an economy that grows not from the top down but from the middle out that is not just what I am going to focus on for the next few months , that is what I am going to be focused on for the remainder of my presidency . And I am going to take these plans all across the country , and I am going to ask folks for help because , frankly , sometimes I just cannot wait for Congress . It just takes them a long time to decide on stuff . So we are going to reach out to CEOs and we are going to reach out to workers , and we are going to reach out to college presidents and we are going to reach out to students . We will talk to Democrats and independents and , yes , I will be asking Republicans to get involved because this has to be our core project for the next decade . I want to lay out my ideas to give the middle class a better shot in the 21st century . And look , I want Republicans to lay out their ideas . If they have got a better idea to bring down college costs that we have not thought of , let us hear them . I am ready to go . If they have got a better plan to make sure that every American knows the security of affordable health care , then please share it with the class . Raise your hand . But what you cannot do is just manufacture another crisis because you think it might be good politics , just as our economy is getting some traction . What you cannot do is shut down our government just because I am for opening the government . You cannot threaten not to pay the bills this country racked up or to cut investments in education and science and basic research that are going to help us grow . If we are going to manage deficits and debt , let us do it in a sensible way . We can do this if we work together . And it may seem hard right now , but if we are willing to take a few bold steps if Washington will just shake off its complacency , set aside the kind of slash and burn partisanship that we have seen over the past few years I promise you , our economy will be stronger a year from now , just like it is stronger now than it was last year . And then it will be stronger five years from now , and then it will be stronger 10 years from now . And more Americans will have the pride of a first paycheck . And more Americans will have the satisfaction of starting their own business and flipping that sign that says open . More folks will have the thrill of marching across the stage to earn a diploma from a university like this , and then know that they have got a job waiting for them when they graduate . What makes us special a lot of times we talk about American exceptionalism and how much we love this country , and there are so many wonderful things about our country . But what makes us the envy of the world has not just been our ability to generate incredible wealth for a few people it is the fact that we have given everybody a chance to pursue their own true measure of happiness . That is who we are . We have not just wanted success for ourselves we want it for our neighbors . We want it for our neighborhoods . That is why we do not call it Bob s dream or Barbara s dream or Barack s dream we call it the American Dream . It is one that we share . That is who we are the idea that no matter who you are , what you look like , where you come from , who you love , you can make it here in America if you are trying hard . That is what a college education can be all about . That is what inspires your President , that is what inspires the faculty . That is why when we see young people like you , we are inspired because you are an expression of that idea . And we have got to make sure that that continues not just for this generation , but for the next generation . And I have got a hundred I have got 1 , 267 days left in my presidency . And I am going to spend every minute , every second , as long as I have the privilege of being in this office , making sure that I am doing every single thing that I can so that middle class families , working families , people who are out there struggling every single day that they know that that work can lead them to a better place . And we are going to make sure that that American Dream is available for everybody , not just now , but in the future . So thank you , Missouri . Thank you , UCThank you , Mules . Thank you , Jennies . God bless you . God bless the United States of America . Let us get to work .<speech_sep>Good evening . Tonight , I can report to the American people and to the world that the United States has conducted an operation that killed Osama bin Laden , the leader of al Qaeda , and a terrorist who is responsible for the murder of thousands of innocent men , women , and children . It was nearly 10 years ago that a bright September day was darkened by the worst attack on the American people in our history . The images of 9 11 are seared into our national memory hijacked planes cutting through a cloudless September sky the Twin Towers collapsing to the ground black smoke billowing up from the Pentagon the wreckage of Flight 93 in Shanksville , Pennsylvania , where the actions of heroic citizens saved even more heartbreak and destruction . And yet we know that the worst images are those that were unseen to the world . The empty seat at the dinner table . Children who were forced to grow up without their mother or their father . Parents who would never know the feeling of their child s embrace . Nearly 3 , 000 citizens taken from us , leaving a gaping hole in our hearts . On September 11 , 2001 , in our time of grief , the American people came together . We offered our neighbors a hand , and we offered the wounded our blood . We reaffirmed our ties to each other , and our love of community and country . On that day , no matter where we came from , what God we prayed to , or what race or ethnicity we were , we were united as one American family . We were also united in our resolve to protect our nation and to bring those who committed this vicious attack to justice . We quickly learned that the 9 11 attacks were carried out by al Qaeda an organization headed by Osama bin Laden , which had openly declared war on the United States and was committed to killing innocents in our country and around the globe . And so we went to war against al Qaeda to protect our citizens , our friends , and our allies . Over the last 10 years , thanks to the tireless and heroic work of our military and our counterterrorism professionals , we have made great strides in that effort . We have disrupted terrorist attacks and strengthened our homeland defense . In Afghanistan , we removed the Taliban government , which had given bin Laden and al Qaeda safe haven and support . And around the globe , we worked with our friends and allies to capture or kill scores of al Qaeda terrorists , including several who were a part of the 9 11 plot . Yet Osama bin Laden avoided capture and escaped across the Afghan border into Pakistan . Meanwhile , al Qaeda continued to operate from along that border and operate through its affiliates across the world . And so shortly after taking office , I directed Leon Panetta , the director of the CIto make the killing or capture of bin Laden the top priority of our war against al Qaeda , even as we continued our broader efforts to disrupt , dismantle , and defeat his network . Then , last August , after years of painstaking work by our intelligence community , I was briefed on a possible lead to bin Laden . It was far from certain , and it took many months to run this thread to ground . I met repeatedly with my national security team as we developed more information about the possibility that we had located bin Laden hiding within a compound deep inside of Pakistan . And finally , last week , I determined that we had enough intelligence to take action , and authorized an operation to get Osama bin Laden and bring him to justice . Today , at my direction , the United States launched a targeted operation against that compound in Abbottabad , Pakistan . A small team of Americans carried out the operation with extraordinary courage and capability . No Americans were harmed . They took care to avoid civilian casualties . After a firefight , they killed Osama bin Laden and took custody of his body . For over two decades , bin Laden has been al Qaeda s leader and symbol , and has continued to plot attacks against our country and our friends and allies . The death of bin Laden marks the most significant achievement to date in our nation s effort to defeat al Qaeda . Yet his death does not mark the end of our effort . There is no doubt that al Qaeda will continue to pursue attacks against us . We must and we will remain vigilant at home and abroad . As we do , we must also reaffirm that the United States is not and never will be at war with Islam . I have made clear , just as President Bush did shortly after 9 11 , that our war is not against Islam . Bin Laden was not a Muslim leader he was a mass murderer of Muslims . Indeed , al Qaeda has slaughtered scores of Muslims in many countries , including our own . So his demise should be welcomed by all who believe in peace and human dignity . Over the years , I have repeatedly made clear that we would take action within Pakistan if we knew where bin Laden was . That is what we have done . But it is important to note that our counterterrorism cooperation with Pakistan helped lead us to bin Laden and the compound where he was hiding . Indeed , bin Laden had declared war against Pakistan as well , and ordered attacks against the Pakistani people . Tonight , I called President Zardari , and my team has also spoken with their Pakistani counterparts . They agree that this is a good and historic day for both of our nations . And going forward , it is essential that Pakistan continue to join us in the fight against al Qaeda and its affiliates . The American people did not choose this fight . It came to our shores , and started with the senseless slaughter of our citizens . After nearly 10 years of service , struggle , and sacrifice , we know well the costs of war . These efforts weigh on me every time as Commander in Chief , have to sign a letter to a family that has lost a loved one , or look into the eyes of a service member who is been gravely wounded . So Americans understand the costs of war . Yet as a country , we will never tolerate our security being threatened , nor stand idly by when our people have been killed . We will be relentless in defense of our citizens and our friends and allies . We will be true to the values that make us who we are . And on nights like this one , we can say to those families who have lost loved ones to al Qaeda s terror Justice has been done . Tonight , we give thanks to the countless intelligence and counterterrorism professionals who have worked tirelessly to achieve this outcome . The American people do not see their work , nor know their names . But tonight , they feel the satisfaction of their work and the result of their pursuit of justice . We give thanks for the men who carried out this operation , for they exemplify the professionalism , patriotism , and unparalleled courage of those who serve our country . And they are part of a generation that has borne the heaviest share of the burden since that September day . Finally , let me say to the families who lost loved ones on 9 11 that we have never forgotten your loss , nor wavered in our commitment to see that we do whatever it takes to prevent another attack on our shores . And tonight , let us think back to the sense of unity that prevailed on 9 11 . I know that it has , at times , frayed . Yet today s achievement is a testament to the greatness of our country and the determination of the American people . The cause of securing our country is not complete . But tonight , we are once again reminded that America can do whatever we set our mind to . That is the story of our history , whether it is the pursuit of prosperity for our people , or the struggle for equality for all our citizens our commitment to stand up for our values abroad , and our sacrifices to make the world a safer place . Let us remember that we can do these things not just because of wealth or power , but because of who we are one nation , under God , indivisible , with liberty and justice for all . Thank you . May God bless you . And may God bless the United States of America .<speech_sep>Hello , everybody . I am glad to see that all of you braved the weather to be here . A little while ago I had a meeting with the Democratic and Republican congressional leaders , and it went very well . In fact , I understand that McConnell and Reid are out doing snow angels on the South Lawn together . Can you picture that , Chuck Not really The meeting did go well , and I appreciate them making the trek . We had a good and frank conversation and it is one that I hope we can continue on a more regular basis . We all understand that there are legitimate and genuine differences between the parties , but despite the political posturing that often paralyzes this town , there are many issues upon which we can and should agree . That is what the American people are demanding of us . I think they are tired of every day being Election Day in Washington . And at this critical time in our country , the people sent us here expect a seriousness of purpose that transcends petty politics . That is why I am going to continue to seek the best ideas from either party as we work to tackle the pressing challenges ahead . I am confident , for example , that when one in 10 of our fellow citizens cannot work , we should be able to come together and help business create more jobs . We ought to be able to agree on providing small businesses with additional tax credits and much needed lines of credit . We ought to agree on investments in crumbling roads and bridges , and we should agree on tax breaks for making homes more energy efficient all of which will put more Americans to work . Many of the job proposals that I have laid out have passed the House and are soon going to be debated in the Senate . We spent a lot of time in this meeting discussing a jobs package and how we could move forward on that . And if there are additional ideas , I will consider them as well . What I will not consider is doing nothing in the face of a lot of hardship across the country . We also talked about restoring fiscal responsibility . There are few matters on which there is as much vigorous bipartisan agreement , at least in public , but unfortunately there is also a lot of partisan wrangling behind closed doors . This is what we know for sure For us to solve this extraordinary problem that is so many years in the making , it is going to take the cooperation of both parties . It is not going to happen in any other way . I am pleased that Congress supported my request to restore the pay as you go rule , which was instrumental in turning deficits into surpluses during the 1990s . I have also called for a bipartisan fiscal commission . Unfortunately this measure , which originally had received the support of a bipartisan majority of the Senate and was cosponsored by Senators Conrad and Gregg , Democrats and Republicans , was blocked there . So I am going to be creating this commission by executive order . And during our meeting I asked the leadership of both parties to join in this serious effort to address our long term deficits , because when the politics is put aside , the reality of our fiscal challenge is not subject to interpretation . Math is not partisan . There ought to be a debate about how to close our deficits . What we cannot accept is business as usual , and we cannot afford grandstanding at the expense of actually getting something done . During our meeting we also touched briefly on how we can move forward on health reform . I have already announced that in two weeks I will be holding a meeting with people from both parties , and as I told the congressional leadership , I am looking forward to a constructive debate with plans that need to be measured against this test . Does it bring down costs for all Americans as well as for the federal government , which spends a huge amount on health care Does it provide adequate protection against abuses by the insurance industry Does it make coverage affordable and available to the tens of millions of working Americans who do not have it right now And does it help us get on a path of fiscal sustainability We also talked about why this is so urgent . Just this week , there was a report that Anthem Blue Cross , which is the largest insurer in the largest state , California , is planning on raising premiums for many individual policyholders by as much as 39 percent . If we do not act , this is just a preview of coming attractions . Premiums will continue to rise for folks with insurance millions more will lose their coverage altogether our deficits will continue to grow larger . And we have an obligation both parties to tackle this issue in a serious way . Now , bipartisanship depends on a willingness among both Democrats and Republicans to put aside matters of party for the good of the country . I will not hesitate to embrace a good idea from my friends in the minority party , but I also will not hesitate to condemn what I consider to be obstinacy that is rooted not in substantive disagreements but in political expedience . We talked about this as well , particularly when it comes to the confirmation process . I respect the Senate s role to advise and consent , but for months , qualified , non controversial nominees for critical positions in government , often positions related to our national security , have been held up despite having overwhelming support . My nominee for one important job , the head of General Services Administration , which helps run the government , was denied a vote for nine months . When she finally got a vote on her nomination , she was confirmed 96 to nothing . That is not advise and consent that is delay and obstruct . One senator , as you all are aware , had put a hold on every single nominee that we had put forward due to a dispute over a couple of earmarks in his state . In our meeting , I asked the congressional leadership to put a stop to these holds in which nominees for critical jobs are denied a vote for months . Surely we can set aside partisanship and do what is traditionally been done to confirm these nominations . If the Senate does not act and I made this very clear if the Senate does not act to confirm these nominees , I will consider making several recess appointments during the upcoming recess , because we cannot afford to allow politics to stand in the way of a well functioning government . My hope is that this will be the first of a series of meetings that I have with leadership of both parties in Congress . We have got to get past the tired debates that have plagued our politics and left behind nothing but soaring debt and mounting challenges , greater hardships among the American people , and extraordinary frustrations among the American people . Those frustrations are what led me to run for President , and as long as I am here in Washington , I intend to try to make this government work on their behalf . So , you know , I am going to take a couple of questions , guys . Major . Well , here s how I responded to John in the meeting , and I have said this publicly before . There are some core goals that have to be met . We have got to control costs , both for families and businesses , but also for our government . Everybody out there who talks about deficits has to acknowledge that the single biggest driver of our deficits is health care spending . We cannot deal with our deficits and debt long term unless we get a handle on that . So that has to be part of a package . Number two , we have got to deal with insurance abuses that affect millions of Americans who have got health insurance . And number three , we have got to make health insurance more available to folks in the individual market , as I just mentioned , in California , who are suddenly seeing their premiums go up 39 percent . That applies to the majority of small businesses , as well as sole proprietors . They are struggling . So I have got these goals . Now , we have a package , as we work through the differences between the House and the Senate , and we will put it up on a Web site for all to see over a long period of time , that meets those criteria , meets those goals . But when I was in Baltimore talking to the House Republicans , they indicated , we can accomplish some of these goals at no cost . And I said , great , let me see it . And I have no interest in doing something that is more expensive and harder to accomplish if somebody else has an easier way to do it . So I am going to be starting from scratch in the sense that I will be open to any ideas that help promote these goals . What I will not do , what I do not think makes sense and I do not think the American people want to see , would be another year of partisan wrangling around these issues another six months or eight months or nine months worth of hearings in every single committee in the House and the Senate in which there is a lot of posturing . Let us get the relevant parties together let us put the best ideas on the table . My hope is that we can find enough overlap that we can say this is the right way to move forward , even if I do not get every single thing that I want . But here s the point that I made to John Boehner and Mitch McConnell Bipartisanship cannot be that I agree to all the things that they believe in or want , and they agree to none of the things I believe in and want , and that is the price of bipartisanship , right But that is sometimes the way it gets presented . Mitch McConnell said something very nice in the meeting about how he supports our goals on nuclear energy and clean coal technology and more drilling to increase oil production . Well , of course he likes that that is part of the Republican agenda for energy , which I accept . And I am willing to move off some of the preferences of my party in order to meet them halfway . But there is got to be some give from their side as well . That is true on health care that is true on energy that is true on financial reform . That is what I am hoping gets accomplished at the summit . What I agree with is that the public has soured on the process that they saw over the last year . I think that actually contaminates how they view the substance of the bills . I think it is important for all of these issues to be aired so that people have confidence if we are moving forward on such a significant part of the economy as health care , that there is complete transparency and all of these issues have been adequately vetted and adequately debated . And this gives an opportunity not just for Democrats to say here s what we think we should do , but it also gives Republicans a showcase before the entire country to say here s our plan here s why we think this will work . And one of the things that John Boehner and Mitch McConnell both said is they did not think that the status quo was acceptable , and that is , right there , promising . That indicates that if all sides agree that we cannot just continue with business as usual then maybe we can actually get something done . Well , I think that the biggest uncertainty has been we just went through the worst recession since the Great Depression and people were not sure whether the financial system was going to melt down and whether we were going to tip into a endless recession . So let us be clear about the sources of uncertainty in terms of business investment over the last several years A huge contraction , trillions of dollars of losses in people s 401s people have a lot of debt coming out of the previous decade that they still have not worked out the housing market losing a whole bunch of value . So the good news is that where we were contracting by 6 percent the economy is now growing by 6 percent . The CEOs I talked to are saying they are now making investments , and I anticipate that they are going to start hiring at a more rapid clip . What I have also heard is them saying that we would like to feel like Washington is working and able to get some things done . There are two ways of interpreting the issue of uncertainty . One way would be to say , well , you know what , we will just go back to what we were doing before on , let us say , the financial markets . We will not have the regulations that we need we will not make any changes in terms of too big to fail . That will provide certainty until the next financial crisis . That is not the kind of certainty I think that the financial markets need . The kind of certainty they need is for us to go ahead and agree on a bipartisan effort to put some rules of the road in place so that consumers are protected in the financial markets so that we do not have banks that are too big to fail that we have ways of winding them down and protecting the overall system without taxpayer bailouts . That requires legislation . The sooner we can get that done , the better . The same would be true when it comes to health care . A lot of CEOs I hear from will say , boy , we had like you to get health care settled one way or another , but they will acknowledge that when they open up their latest invoice for their premiums and they find out that those premiums have gone up 20 percent or 25 percent , that is the kind of uncertainty that also tamps down business investment . So I guess my answer would be this The sooner the business community has a sense that we have got our act together here in Washington and can move forward on big , serious issues in a substantive way without a lot of posturing and partisan wrangling , I think the better off the entire country is going to be . I absolutely agree on that . What I think is important is not to buy into this notion that is perpetrated by some of the business interests that got a stake in this who are fighting financial reform , for example , to say , boy , we had be doing fine if we just did not try to regulate the banks . That I think would be a mistake . The small businesses I talk to and I have been talking to a lot of them as I have been traveling around the country over the last several months their biggest problem is right now they cannot get credit out of their banks so they are uncertain about that . And they are still uncertain about orders do they just have enough customers to justify them doing more . It is looking better at this point . But that is not the rationale for people saying , I am not hiring . Let me put it this way . Most small businesses right now , if they have got enough customers to make a profit and they can get the bank loans required to boost their payroll , boost their inventory , and sell to those customers , they will do so . Okay Let us see , let us get a print guy here . David . You know , I think that on energy there should be a bipartisan agreement that we have to take a both and approach rather than an either or approach . What do I mean by that I am very firm in my conviction that the country that leads the way in clean energy solar , wind , biodiesel , geothermal that country is going to win the race in the 21st century global economy . So we have to move in that direction . What is also true is that given our energy needs in order to continue economic growth , produce jobs , make sure our businesses are competitive around the world , that we are going to need some of the old , traditional energy sources as we are developing these new ones and ramping them up . So we cannot overnight convert to an all solar or an all wind economy . That just cannot happen . We are going to have needs in these traditional sources . And so the question then is , are we going to be able to put together a package that includes safe , secure nuclear power that includes new technologies so that we can use coal which we have in abundance and is very cheap , but often is adding to our greenhouse gases can we find sequestration technologies that clean that up can we identify opportunities to increase our oil and natural gas production in a way that is environmentally sustainable And that should be part of a package with our development of clean energy . And my hope is that my Republican friends , but also Democrats , say to themselves , let us be practical and let us do both . Let us not just do one or the other let us do both . Over time I think the transition is going to be more and more clean energy and over time fossil fuels become less prominent in our overall energy mix . But we have got to do both . I am just a eternal optimist and so it is the right thing to do . And all I can do is just to keep on making the argument about what is right for the country and assume that over time people , regardless of party , regardless of their particular political positions , are going to gravitate towards the truth . Okay I am going to take two more . Let us see Well , I just want to make sure that I was getting a balance here , so go ahead , Chuck . Why is everybody moaning about Todd Well , it is moving along fairly quickly . I think that we have bent over backwards to say to the Islamic Republic of Iran that we are willing to have a constructive conversation about how they can align themselves with international norms and rules and reenter as full members of the international community . The most obvious attempt was when we gave them an offer that said we are going to provide the conversion of some of the low enriched uranium that they already have into the isotopes that they need for their medical research and for hospitals that would serve up to a million Iranian citizens . They rejected it although one of the difficulties in dealing with Iran over the last several months is it is not always clear who is speaking on behalf of the government , and we get a lot of different , mixed signals . But what is clear is , is that they have not said yes to an agreement that Russia , China , Germany , France , Great Britain and the United States all said was a good deal , and that the director of the IAEA said was the right thing to do and that Iran should accept . That indicates to us that , despite their posturing that their nuclear power is only for civilian use , that they in fact continue to pursue a course that would lead to weaponization . And that is not acceptable to the international community , not just to the United States . So what we have said from the start was we are moving on dual tracks . If you want to accept the kinds of agreements with the international community that lead you down a path of being a member of good standing , then we welcome you . If not Well , I am getting to that . And if not , then the next step is sanctions . They have made their choice so far , although the door is still open . And what we are going to be working on over the next several weeks is developing a significant regime of sanctions that will indicate to them how isolated they are from the international community as a whole . Well , meaning that there is going to be a We are going to be looking at a variety of ways in which countries indicate to Iran that their approach is unacceptable . And the will be one aspect of that broader effort . Well , the we are confident right now that the international community is unified around Iran s misbehavior in this area . How China operates at the Security Council as we pursue sanctions is something that we are going to have to see . One thing I am pleased about is to see how forward leaning the Russians have been on this issue . I think they clearly have seen that Iran has not been serious about solving what is a solvable dispute between Iran and the international community . All right I am going to make this the last question . And I will take somebody from the back yes . Yes . On health care , the Republicans are asking whether the February 25th session will include economists and public interest groups and people supporting your side , or will it just be the members of Congress And on Anthem Blue Cross , do you have the authority to go in and tell a private company they cannot charge that how will you stop them Well , I do not have the authority as I understand it I cannot simply issue an executive order lowering everybody s rates . If I could I would have done that already and saved myself a lot of grief on Capitol Hill . That is why reform is so important . That is why the status quo is unacceptable . But there is no shortcut in dealing with this issue . I know the American people get frustrated in debating something like health care because you get a whole bunch of different claims being made by different groups and different interests . It is a big , complicated , tough issue . But what is also true is that without some action on the part of Congress , it is very unlikely that we see any improvement over the current trajectory . And the current trajectory is premiums keep on going up 10 , 15 , 20 , 30 percent . The current trajectory is more and more people are losing health care . I do not know if people noted , because during the health care debate everybody was saying the President is trying to take over a government takeover of health care . I do not know if anybody noticed that for the first time this year you saw more people getting health care from government than you did from the private sector not because of anything we did , but because more and more people are losing their health care from their employers . It is becoming unaffordable . That is what we are trying to prevent . We want people to be able to get health care from their employers . But we also understand that you have got to fix the system so that people are able to get it at affordable rates and small businesses can afford to give their employees insurance at an affordable rate . And that is not happening right now . To your question about the 25th , my hope is that this does not end up being political theater , as I think some of you have phrased it . I want a substantive discussion . We have not refined exactly how the agenda is going to go that day . We want to talk with both the Democratic and Republican leaders to find out what they think would be most useful . I do want to make sure that there is some people like the Congressional Budget Office , for example , that are considered non partisan , who can answer questions . In this whole health care debate I am reminded of the story that was told about Senator Moynihan , who was I guess in an argument with one of his colleagues , and his colleague was losing the argument so he got a little flustered and said to Senator Moynihan , Well , I am entitled to my own opinion . And Senator Moynihan said , Well , you are entitled to your own opinion , but you are not entitled to your own facts . I think that is the key to a successful dialogue on the 25th or on health care . Let us establish some common facts . Let us establish what the issues are , what the problems are , and let us test out in front of the American people what ideas work and what ideas do not . And if we can establish that factual accuracy about how different approaches would work , then I think we can make some progress . And it may be that some of the facts that come up are ones that make my party a little bit uncomfortable . So if it is established that by working seriously on medical malpractice and tort reform that we can reduce some of those costs , I have said from the beginning of this debate I had be willing to work on that . On the other hand , if I am told that that is only a fraction of the problem and that is not the biggest driver of health care costs , then I am also going to insist , okay , let us look at that as one aspect of it , but what else are we willing to do And this is where it gets back to the point I was making earlier . Bipartisanship cannot mean simply that Democrats give up everything that they believe in , find the handful of things that Republicans have been advocating for and we do those things , and then we have bipartisanship . That is not how it works in any other realm of life . That is certainly not how it works in my marriage with Michelle , although I usually do give in most of the time . But the there is got to be some give and take , and that is what I am hoping can be accomplished . And I am confident that is what the American people are looking for . So , all right Okay , since there was not a jobs question I will make this the last one , jobs question . Well , my understanding is first of all , the House has moved forward a jobs package that has some good elements in it . My understanding is , is that there is bipartisan talks taking place as we speak on the Senate side about some elements of a package . I think there are some things that a lot of people agree on . Just to give you an example , the idea of eliminating capital gains for small businesses something we can all agree on . I talked about it at the State of the Union address . My hope would be that we would all agree on a mechanism to get community banks who are lending to small businesses more capital , because that is something that I keep on hearing is one of the biggest problems that small businesses have out there . So I think that it is realistic for us to get a package moving quickly that may not include all the things I think need to be done , and it may be that that first package builds some trust and confidence that Democrats and Republicans on Capitol Hill can work together and then we move on to the next aspect of the package and so forth . It may take a series of incremental steps , but the one thing I am absolutely clear about is , is that we have got an economy that is growing right now , a huge boost in productivity that is the good news . The bad news is , is that companies still have not taken that final step in actually putting people on their payroll full time . We are seeing an increase in temporary workers , but they have not yet taken on that full time worker . And so providing some additional impetus to them , right as the economy is moving in a positive direction , I think can end up yielding some good results . All right Thank you , guys . That was pretty good , thanks .<speech_sep>Thank you so much . Good afternoon . I am honored to be in the timeless city of Cairo and to be hosted by two remarkable institutions . For over a thousand years , Al Azhar has stood as a beacon of Islamic learning , and for over a century , Cairo University has been a source of Egypt s advancement . And together , you represent the harmony between tradition and progress . I am grateful for your hospitality and the hospitality of the people of Egypt . And I am also proud to carry with me the good will of the American people and a greeting of peace from Muslim communities in my country As salaamu alaykum . We meet at a time of great tension between the United States and Muslims around the world , tension rooted in historical forces that go beyond any current policy debate . The relationship between Islam and the West includes centuries of coexistence and cooperation , but also conflict and religious wars . More recently , tension has been fed by colonialism that denied rights and opportunities to many Muslims and a cold war in which Muslim majority countries were too often treated as proxies without regard to their own aspirations . Moreover , the sweeping change brought by modernity and globalization led many Muslims to view the West as hostile to the traditions of Islam . Violent extremists have exploited these tensions in a small , but potent minority of Muslims . The attacks of September 11 , 2001 , and the continued efforts of these extremists to engage in violence against civilians has led some in my country to view Islam as inevitably hostile not only to America and Western countries , but also to human rights . All this has bred more fear and more mistrust . So long as our relationship is defined by our differences , we will empower those who sow hatred rather than peace , those who promote conflict rather than the cooperation that can help all of our people achieve justice and prosperity . And this cycle of suspicion and discord must end . I have come here to Cairo to seek a new beginning between the United States and Muslims around the world , one based on mutual interest and mutual respect and one based upon the truth that America and Islam are not exclusive and need not be in competition . Instead , they overlap and share common principles , principles of justice and progress , tolerance and the dignity of all human beings . I do so recognizing that change cannot happen overnight . I know there is been a lot of publicity about this speech , but no single speech can eradicate years of mistrust . Nor can I answer in the time that I have this afternoon all the complex questions that brought us to this point . But I am convinced that in order to move forward , we must say openly to each other the things we hold in our hearts and that too often are said only behind closed doors . There must be a sustained effort to listen to each other , to learn from each other , to respect one another , and to seek common ground . As the Holy Koran tells us Be conscious of God and speak always the truth . That is what I will try to do today , to speak the truth as best I can , humbled by the task before us and firm in my belief that the interests we share as human beings are far more powerful than the forces that drive us apart . Now part of this conviction is rooted in my own experience . I am a Christian , but my father came from a Kenyan family that includes generations of Muslims . As a boy , I spent several years in Indonesia and heard the call of the azaan at the break of dawn and at the fall of dusk . As a young man , I worked in Chicago communities where many found dignity and peace in their Muslim faith . As a student of history , I also know civilization s debt to Islam . It was Islam , at places like Al Azhar , that carried the light of learning through so many centuries , paving the way for Europe s renaissance and enlightenment . It was innovation in Muslim communities that developed the order of algebra , our magnetic compass and tools of navigation , our mastery of pens and printing , our understanding of how disease spreads and how it can be healed . Islamic culture has given us majestic arches and soaring spires , timeless poetry and cherished music , elegant calligraphy and places of peaceful contemplation . And throughout history , Islam has demonstrated through words and deeds the possibilities of religious tolerance and racial equality . I also know that Islam has always been a part of America s story . The first nation to recognize my country was Morocco . In signing the Treaty of Tripoli in 1796 , our second President , John Adams , wrote The United States has in itself no character of enmity against the laws , religion , or tranquillity of Muslims . And since our founding , American Muslims have enriched the United States . They have fought in our wars they have served in our government they have stood for civil rights they have started businesses they have taught at our universities they have excelled in our sports arenas they have won Nobel Prizes , built our tallest building , and lit the Olympic Torch . And when the first Muslim American was recently elected to Congress , he took the oath to defend our Constitution using the same Holy Koran that one of our Founding Fathers , Thomas Jefferson , kept in his personal library . So , I have known Islam on three continents before coming to the region where it was first revealed . That experience guides my conviction that partnership between America and Islam must be based on what Islam is , not what it is not . And I consider it part of my responsibility as President of the United States to fight against negative stereotypes of Islam wherever they appear . But that same principle must apply to Muslim perceptions of America . Just as Muslims do not fit a crude stereotype , America is not the crude stereotype of a self interested empire . The United States has been one of the greatest sources of progress that the world has ever known . We were born out of revolution against an empire . We were founded upon the ideal that all are created equal , and we have shed blood and struggled for centuries to give meaning to those words , within our borders and around the world . We are shaped by every culture , drawn from every end of the Earth , and dedicated to a simple concept E pluribus unum Out of many , one . Now , much has been made of the fact that an African American with the name Barack Hussein Obama could be elected President . But my personal story is not so unique . The dream of opportunity for all people has not come true for everyone in America , but its promise exists for all who come to our shores , and that includes nearly 7 million American Muslims in our country today , who , by the way , enjoy incomes and educational levels that are higher than the American average . Moreover , freedom in America is indivisible from the freedom to practice one s religion . That is why there is a mosque in every State in our Union and over 1 , 200 mosques within our borders . That is why the United States Government has gone to court to protect the right of women and girls to wear the hijab and to punish those who would deny it . So let there be no doubt , Islam is a part of America . And I believe that America holds within her the truth that regardless of race , religion , or station in life , all of us share common aspirations to live in peace and security , to get an education and to work with dignity , to love our families , our communities , and our God . These things we share . This is the hope of all humanity . Of course , recognizing our common humanity is only the beginning of our task . Words alone cannot meet the needs of our people . These needs will be met only if we act boldly in the years ahead and if we understand that the challenges we face are shared and our failure to meet them will hurt us all . For we have learned from recent experience that when a financial system weakens in one country , prosperity is hurt everywhere . When a new flu infects one human being , all are at risk . When one nation pursues a nuclear weapon , the risk of nuclear attack rises for all nations . When violent extremists operate in one stretch of mountains , people are endangered across an ocean . When innocents in Bosnia and Darfur are slaughtered , that is a stain on our collective conscience . That is what it means to share this world in the 21st century . That is the responsibility we have to one another as human beings . And this is a difficult responsibility to embrace , for human history has often been a record of nations and tribes and , yes , religions subjugating one another in pursuit of their own interests . Yet in this new age , such attitudes are self defeating . Given our interdependence , any world order that elevates one nation or group of people over another will inevitably fail . So whatever we think of the past , we must not be prisoners to it . Our problems must be dealt with through partnership our progress must be shared . Now , that does not mean we should ignore sources of tension . Indeed , it suggests the opposite . We must face these tensions squarely . And so in that spirit , let me speak as clearly and as plainly as I can about some specific issues that I believe we must finally confront together . The first issue that we have to confront is violent extremism in all of its forms . In Ankara , I made clear that America is not , and never will be , at war with Islam . We will , however , relentlessly confront violent extremists who pose a grave threat to our security , because we reject the same thing that people of all faiths reject the killing of innocent men , women , and children . And it is my first duty as President to protect the American people . The situation in Afghanistan demonstrates America s goals and our need to work together . Over 7 years ago , the United States pursued Al Qaida and the Taliban with broad international support . We did not go by choice we went because of necessity . I am aware that there is still some who would question or even justify the events of 9 11 . But let us be clear Al Qaida killed nearly 3 , 000 people on that day . The victims were innocent men , women , and children from America and many other nations who had done nothing to harm anybody . And yet , Al Qaida chose to ruthlessly murder these people , claimed credit for the attack , and even now states their determination to kill on a massive scale . They have affiliates in many countries and are trying to expand their reach . These are not opinions to be debated these are facts to be dealt with . Make no mistake , we do not want to keep our troops in Afghanistan . We see no we seek no military bases there . It is agonizing for America to lose our young men and women . It is costly and politically difficult to continue this conflict . We would gladly bring every single one of our troops home , if we could be confident that there were not violent extremists in Afghanistan and now Pakistan determined to kill as many Americans as they possibly can . But that is not yet the case . And that is why we are partnering with a coalition of 46 countries . And despite the costs involved , America s commitment will not weaken . Indeed , none of us should tolerate these extremists . They have killed in many countries . They have killed people of different faiths , but more than any other , they have killed Muslims . Their actions are irreconcilable with the rights of human beings , the progress of nations , and with Islam . The Holy Koran teaches that whoever kills an innocent is as it is as if he has killed all mankind . And the Holy Koran also says , whoever saves a person , it is as if he has saved all mankind . The enduring faith of over a billion people is so much bigger than the narrow hatred of a few . Islam is not part of the problem in combating violent extremism , it is an important part of promoting peace . Now , we also know that military power alone is not going to solve the problems in Afghanistan and Pakistan . That is why we plan to invest 1 . 5 billion each year over the next 5 years to partner with Pakistanis to build schools and hospitals , roads and businesses , and hundreds of millions to help those who have been displaced . That is why we are providing more than 2 . 8 billion to help Afghans develop their economy and deliver services that people depend on . Let me also address the issue of Iraq . Unlike Afghanistan , Iraq was a war of choice that provoked strong differences in my country and around the world . Although I believe that the Iraqi people are ultimately better off without the tyranny of Saddam Hussein , I also believe that events in Iraq have reminded America of the need to use diplomacy and build international consensus to resolve our problems whenever possible . Indeed , we can recall the words of Thomas Jefferson , who said I hope that our wisdom will grow with our power and teach us that the less we use our power , the greater it will be . Today , America has a dual responsibility to help Iraq forge a better future and to leave Iraq to Iraqis . And I have made it clear to the Iraqi people that we pursue no bases and no claim on their territory or resources . Iraq s sovereignty is its own . And that is why I ordered the removal of our combat brigades by next August . That is why we will honor our agreement with Iraq s democratically elected Government to remove combat troops from Iraqi cities by July and to remove all of our troops from Iraq by 2012 . We will help Iraq train its security forces and develop its economy , but we will support a secure and united Iraq as a partner , and never as a patron . And finally , just as America can never tolerate violence by extremists , we must never alter or forget our principles . Nine eleven was an enormous trauma to our country . The fear and anger that it provoked was understandable , but in some cases , it led us to act contrary to our traditions and our ideals . We are taking concrete actions to change course . I have unequivocally prohibited the use of torture by the United States , and I have ordered the prison at Guantanamo Bay closed by early next year . So America will defend itself , respectful of the sovereignty of nations and the rule of law , and we will do so in partnership with Muslim communities , which are also threatened . The sooner the extremists are isolated and unwelcome in Muslim communities , the sooner we will all be safer . The second major source of tension that we need to discuss is the situation between Israelis , Palestinians , and the Arab world . America s strong bonds with Israel are well known . This bond is unbreakable . It is based upon cultural and historical ties and the recognition that the aspiration for a Jewish homeland is rooted in a tragic history that cannot be denied . Around the world , the Jewish people were persecuted for centuries , and anti Semitism in Europe culminated in an unprecedented Holocaust . Tomorrow I will visit Buchenwald , which was part of a network of camps where Jews were enslaved , tortured , shot , and gassed to death by the Third Reich . Six million Jews were killed , more than the entire Jewish population of Israel today . Denying that fact is baseless , it is ignorant , and it is hateful . Threatening Israel with destruction or repeating vile stereotypes about Jews is deeply wrong and only serves to evoke in the minds of Israelis this most painful of memories while preventing the peace that the people of this region deserve . On the other hand , it is also undeniable that the Palestinian people , Muslims and Christians , have suffered in pursuit of a homeland . For more than 60 years , they have endured the pain of dislocation . Many wait in refugee camps in the West Bank , Gaza , and neighboring lands for a life of peace and security that they have never been able to lead . They endure the daily humiliations , large and small , that come with occupation . So let there be no doubt , the situation for the Palestinian people is intolerable , and America will not turn our backs on the legitimate Palestinian aspiration for dignity , opportunity , and a state of their own . For decades then , there has been a stalemate two peoples with legitimate aspirations , each with a painful history that makes compromise elusive . It is easy to point fingers , for Palestinians to point to the displacement brought about by Israel s founding and for Israelis to point to the constant hostility and attacks throughout its history from within its borders , as well as beyond . But if we see this conflict only from one side or the other , then we will be blind to the truth . The only resolution is for the aspirations of both sides to be met through two states , where Israelis and Palestinians each live in peace and security . That is in Israel s interest , Palestine s interest , America s interest , and the world s interest . And that is why I intend to personally pursue this outcome with all the patience and dedication that the task requires . The obligations that the parties have agreed to under the road map are clear . For peace to come , it is time for them , and all of us , to live up to our responsibilities . Palestinians must abandon violence . Resistance through violence and killing is wrong , and it does not succeed . For centuries , black people in America suffered the lash of the whip as slaves and the humiliation of segregation . But it was not violence that won full and equal rights . It was a peaceful and determined insistence upon the ideals at the center of America s founding . This same story can be told by people from South Africa to South Asia , from Eastern Europe to Indonesia . It is a story with a simple truth Violence is a dead end . It is a sign neither of courage nor power to shoot rockets at sleeping children or to blow up old women on a bus . That is not how moral authority is claimed that is how it is surrendered . Now is the time for Palestinians to focus on what they can build . The Palestinian Authority must develop its capacity to govern with institutions that serve the needs of its people . Hamas does have support among some Palestinians , but they also have to recognize they have responsibilities . To play a role in fulfilling Palestinian aspirations , to unify the Palestinian people , Hamas must put an end to violence , recognize past agreements , recognize Israel s right to exist . At the same time , Israelis must acknowledge that just as Israel s right to exist cannot be denied , neither can Palestine s . The United States does not accept the legitimacy of continued Israeli settlements . This construction violates previous agreements and undermines efforts to achieve peace . It is time for these settlements to stop . And Israel must also live up to its obligation to ensure that Palestinians can live and work and develop their society . Just as it devastates Palestinian families , the continuing humanitarian crisis in Gaza does not serve Israel s security , neither does the continuing lack of opportunity in the West Bank . Progress in the daily lives of the Palestinian people must be a critical part of a road to peace , and Israel must take concrete steps to enable such progress . And finally , the Arab States must recognize that the Arab Peace Initiative was an important beginning , but not the end of their responsibilities . The Arab Israeli conflict should no longer be used to distract the people of Arab nations from other problems . Instead , it must be a cause for action to help the Palestinian people develop the institutions that will sustain their state , to recognize Israel s legitimacy , and to choose progress over a self defeating focus on the past . America will align our policies with those who pursue peace , and we will say in public what we say in private to Israelis and Palestinians and Arabs . We cannot impose peace . But privately , many Muslims recognize that Israel will not go away . Likewise , many Israelis recognize the need for a Palestinian state . It is time for us to act on what everyone knows to be true . Too many tears have been shed . Too much blood has been shed . All of us have a responsibility to work for the day when the mothers of Israelis and Palestinians can see their children grow up without fear , when the Holy Land of the three great faiths is the place of peace that God intended it to be , when Jerusalem is a secure and lasting home for Jews and Christians and Muslims and a place for all of the children of Abraham to mingle peacefully together as in the story of Isra , when Moses , Jesus , and Muhammed , peace be upon them , joined in prayer . The third source of tension is our shared interest in the rights and responsibilities of nations on nuclear weapons . This issue has been a source of tension between the United States and the Islamic Republic of Iran . For many years , Iran has defined itself in part by its opposition to my country , and there is in fact a tumultuous history between us . In the middle of the cold war , the United States played a role in the overthrow of a democratically elected Iranian Government . Since the Islamic Revolution , Iran has played a role in acts of hostage taking and violence against troops and civilians . This history is well known . Rather than remain trapped in the past , I have made it clear to Iran s leaders and people that my country is prepared to move forward . The question now is not what Iran is against , but rather what future it wants to build . I recognize it will be hard to overcome decades of mistrust , but we will proceed with courage , rectitude , and resolve . There will be many issues to discuss between our two countries , and we are willing to move forward without preconditions on the basis of mutual respect . But it is clear to all concerned that when it comes to nuclear weapons , we have reached a decisive point . This is not simply about America s interests . It is about preventing a nuclear arms race in the Middle East that could lead this region and the world down a hugely dangerous path . I understand those who protest that some countries have weapons that others do not . No single nation should pick and choose which nation holds nuclear weapons . And that is why I strongly reaffirmed America s commitment to seek a world in which no nations hold nuclear weapons . And any nation , including Iran , should have the right to access peaceful nuclear power , if it complies with its responsibilities under the Nuclear Non Proliferation Treaty . That commitment is at the core of the treaty , and it must be kept for all who fully abide by it . And I am hopeful that all countries in the region can share in this goal . The fourth issue that I will address is democracy . I know there has been controversy about the promotion of democracy in recent years , and much of this controversy is connected to the war in Iraq . So let me be clear No system of government can or should be imposed by one nation by any other . That does not lessen my commitment , however , to governments that reflect the will of the people . Each nation gives life to this principle in its own way , grounded in the traditions of its own people . America does not presume to know what is best for everyone , just as we would not presume to pick the outcome of a peaceful election . But I do have an unyielding belief that all people yearn for certain things the ability to speak your mind and have a say in how you are governed , confidence in the rule of law and the equal administration of justice , government that is transparent and does not steal from the people , the freedom to live as you choose . These are not just American ideas , they are human rights . And that is why we will support them everywhere . Now , there is no straight line to realize this promise , but this much is clear Governments that protect these rights are ultimately more stable , successful , and secure . Suppressing ideas never succeeds in making them go away . America respects the right of all peaceful and law abiding voices to be heard around the world , even if we disagree with them . And we will welcome all elected , peaceful governments , provided they govern with respect for all their people . This last point is important , because there are some who advocate for democracy only when they are out of power . Once in power , they are ruthless in suppressing the rights of others . So no matter where it takes hold , government of the people and by the people sets a single standard for all who would hold power . You must maintain your power through consent , not coercion you must respect the rights of minorities and participate with a spirit of tolerance and compromise you must place the interests of your people and the legitimate workings of the political process above your party . Without these ingredients , elections alone do not make true democracy . Audience member . We love you The President . Thank you . The fifth issue that we must address together is religious freedom . Islam has a proud tradition of tolerance . We see it in the history of Andalusia and Cordoba during the Inquisition . I saw it firsthand as a child in Indonesia , where devout Christians worshiped freely in an overwhelmingly Muslim country . That is the spirit we need today . People in every country should be free to choose and live their faith based upon the persuasion of the mind and the heart and the soul . This tolerance is essential for religion to thrive , but it is being challenged in many different ways . Among some Muslims , there is a disturbing tendency to measure one s own faith by the rejection of somebody else s faith . The richness of religious diversity must be upheld , whether it is for Maronites in Lebanon or the Copts in Egypt . And if we are being honest , fault lines must be closed among Muslims as well , as the divisions between Sunni and Shi a have led to tragic violence , particularly in Iraq . Freedom of religion is central to the ability of peoples to live together . We must always examine the ways in which we protect it . For instance , in the United States , rules on charitable giving have made it harder for Muslims to fulfill their religious obligation . That is why I am committed to working with American Muslims to ensure that they can fulfill zakat . Likewise , it is important for Western countries to avoid impeding Muslim citizens from practicing religion as they see fit , for instance , by dictating what clothes a Muslim woman should wear . We cannot disguise hostility towards any religion behind the pretence of liberalism . In fact , faith should bring us together . And that is why we are forging service projects in America to bring together Christians , Muslims , and Jews . That is why we welcome efforts like Saudi Arabian King Abdallah s interfaith dialog and Turkey s leadership in the Alliance of Civilizations . Around the world , we can turn dialog into interfaith service , so bridges between peoples lead to action , whether it is combating malaria in Africa or providing relief after a natural disaster . The sixth issue that I want to address is women s rights . I know I know , and you can tell from this audience , that there is a healthy debate about this issue . I reject the view of some in the West that a woman who chooses to cover her hair is somehow less equal , but I do believe that a woman who is denied an education is denied equality . And it is no coincidence that countries where women are well educated are far more likely to be prosperous . Now , let me be clear Issues of women s equality are by no means simply an issue for Islam . In Turkey , Pakistan , Bangladesh , Indonesia , we have seen Muslim majority countries elect a woman to lead . Meanwhile , the struggle for women s equality continues in many aspects of American life and in countries around the world . I am convinced that our daughters can contribute just as much to society as our sons . Our common prosperity will be advanced by allowing all humanity , men and women , to reach their full potential . I do not believe that women must make the same choices as men in order to be equal , and I respect those women who choose to live their lives in traditional roles . But it should be their choice . And that is why the United States will partner with any Muslim majority country to support expanded literacy for girls and to help young women pursue employment through microfinancing that helps people live their dreams . Finally , I want to discuss economic development and opportunity . I know that for many , the face of globalization is contradictory . The Internet and television can bring knowledge and information , but also offensive sexuality and mindless violence into the home . Trade can bring new wealth and opportunities , but also huge disruptions and change in communities . In all nations , including America , this change can bring fear . Fear that because of modernity , we lose control over our economic choices , our politics , and , most importantly , our identities , those things we most cherish about our communities , our families , our traditions , and our faith . But I also know that human progress cannot be denied . There need not be contradictions between development and tradition . Countries like Japan and South Korea grew their economies enormously while maintaining distinct cultures . The same is true for the astonishing progress within Muslim majority countries from Kuala Lumpur to Dubai . In ancient times and in our times , Muslim communities have been at the forefront of innovation and education . And this is important , because no development strategy can be based only upon what comes out of the ground , nor can it be sustained while young people are out of work . Many Gulf States have enjoyed great wealth as a consequence of oil , and some are beginning to focus it on broader development . But all of us must recognize that education and innovation will be the currency of the 21st century , and in too many Muslim communities there remains underinvestment in these areas . I am emphasizing such investment within my own country . And while America in the past has focused on oil and gas when it comes to this part of the world , we now seek a broader engagement . On education , we will expand exchange programs and increase scholarships like the one that brought my father to America . At the same time , we will encourage more Americans to study in Muslim communities . And we will match promising Muslim students with internships in America , invest in online learning for teachers and children around the world , and create a new online network so a young person in Kansas can communicate instantly with a young person in Cairo . On economic development , we will create a new corps of business volunteers to partner with counterparts in Muslim majority countries . And I will host a summit on entrepreneurship this year to identify how we can deepen ties between business leaders , foundations , and social entrepreneurs in the United States and Muslim communities around the world . On science and technology , we will launch a new fund to support technological development in Muslim majority countries and to help transfer ideas to mark to the marketplace so they can create more jobs . We will open centers of scientific excellence in Africa , the Middle East , and Southeast Asia and appoint new science envoys to collaborate on programs that develop new sources of energy , create green jobs , digitize records , clean water , grow new crops . Today I am announcing a new global effort with the Organization of the Islamic Conference to eradicate polio . And we will also expand partnerships with Muslim communities to promote child and maternal health . All these things must be done in partnership . Americans are ready to join with citizens and governments , community organizations , religious leaders , and businesses in Muslim communities around the world to help our people pursue a better life . And the issues that I have described will not be easy to address , but we have a responsibility to join together on behalf of the world that we seek , a world where extremists no longer threaten our people and American troops have come home , a world where Israelis and Palestinians are each secure in a state of their own and nuclear energy is used for peaceful purposes , a world where governments serve their citizens and the rights of all God s children are respected . Those are mutual interests . That is the world we seek , but we can only achieve it together . I know there are many , Muslim and non Muslim , who question whether we can forge this new beginning . Some are eager to stoke the flames of division and to stand in the way of progress . Some suggest that it is not worth the effort , that we are fated to disagree and civilizations are doomed to clash . Many more are simply skeptical that real change can occur . There is so much fear , so much mistrust that has built up over the years . But if we choose to be bound by the past , we will never move forward . And I want to particularly say this to young people of every faith in every country You , more than anyone , have the ability to reimagine the world , to remake this world . All of us share this world for but a brief moment in time . The question is whether we spend that time focused on what pushes us apart , or whether we commit ourselves to an effort , a sustained effort to find common ground , to focus on the future we seek for our children , and to respect the dignity of all human beings . It is easier to start wars than to end them . It is easier to blame others than to look inward . It is easier to see what is different about someone than to find the things we share . But we should choose the right path , not just the easy path . There is one rule that lies at the heart of every religion , that we do unto others as we would have them do unto us . This truth transcends nations and peoples , a belief that is not new , that is not black or white or brown , that is not Christian or Muslim or Jew . It is a belief that pulsed in the cradle of civilization and that still beats in the hearts of billions around the world . It is a faith in other people , and it is what brought me here today . We have the power to make the world we seek , but only if we have the courage to make a new beginning , keeping in mind what has been written . The Holy Koran tells us O mankind We have created you male and a female , and we have made you into nations and tribes so that you may know one another . The Talmud tells us The whole of the Torah is for the purpose of promoting peace . The Holy Bible tells us Blessed are the peacemakers , for they shall be called sons of God . The people of the world can live together in peace . We know that is God s vision , now that must be our work here on Earth . Thank you , and may God s peace be upon you . Thank you very much . Thank you .<speech_sep>Thank you . Thank you very much . Please , please be seated . To the families of those we have lost to all who called them friends to the students of this university , the public servants who are gathered here , the people of Tucson and the people of Arizona I have come here tonight as an American who , like all Americans , kneels to pray with you today and will stand by you tomorrow . There is nothing I can say that will fill the sudden hole torn in your hearts . But know this The hopes of a nation are here tonight . We mourn with you for the fallen . We join you in your grief . And we add our faith to yours that Representative Gabrielle Giffords and the other living victims of this tragedy will pull through . Scripture tells us There is a river whose streams make glad the city of God , the holy place where the Most High dwells . God is within her , she will not fall God will help her at break of day . On Saturday morning , Gabby , her staff and many of her constituents gathered outside a supermarket to exercise their right to peaceful assembly and free speech . They were fulfilling a central tenet of the democracy envisioned by our founders representatives of the people answering questions to their constituents , so as to carry their concerns back to our nation s capital . Gabby called it Congress on Your Corner just an updated version of government of and by and for the people . And that quintessentially American scene , that was the scene that was shattered by a gunman s bullets . And the six people who lost their lives on Saturday they , too , represented what is best in us , what is best in America . Judge John Roll served our legal system for nearly 40 years . A graduate of this university and a graduate of this law school Judge Roll was recommended for the federal bench by John McCain 20 years ago appointed by President George Bush and rose to become Arizona s chief federal judge . His colleagues described him as the hardest working judge within the Ninth Circuit . He was on his way back from attending Mass , as he did every day , when he decided to stop by and say hi to his representative . John is survived by his loving wife , Maureen , his three sons and his five beautiful grandchildren . George and Dorothy Morris Dot to her friends were high school sweethearts who got married and had two daughters . They did everything together traveling the open road in their Renjoying what their friends called a 50 year honeymoon . Saturday morning , they went by the Safeway to hear what their congresswoman had to say . When gunfire rang out , George , a former Marine , instinctively tried to shield his wife . Both were shot . Dot passed away . A New Jersey native , Phyllis Schneck retired to Tucson to beat the snow . But in the summer , she would return East , where her world revolved around her three children , her seven grandchildren and 2 year old great granddaughter . A gifted quilter , she had often work under a favorite tree , or sometimes she had sew aprons with the logos of the Jets and the Giants to give out at the church where she volunteered . A Republican , she took a liking to Gabby , and wanted to get to know her better . Dorwan and Mavy Stoddard grew up in Tucson together about 70 years ago . They moved apart and started their own respective families . But after both were widowed they found their way back here , to , as one of Mavy s daughters put it , be boyfriend and girlfriend again . When they were not out on the road in their motor home , you could find them just up the road , helping folks in need at the Mountain Avenue Church of Christ . A retired construction worker , Dorwan spent his spare time fixing up the church along with his dog , Tux . His final act of selflessness was to dive on top of his wife , sacrificing his life for hers . Everything everything Gabe Zimmerman did , he did with passion . But his true passion was helping people . As Gabby s outreach director , he made the cares of thousands of her constituents his own , seeing to it that seniors got the Medicare benefits that they had earned , that veterans got the medals and the care that they deserved , that government was working for ordinary folks . He died doing what he loved talking with people and seeing how he could help . And Gabe is survived by his parents , Ross and Emily , his brother , Ben , and his fianc eacute e , Kelly , who he planned to marry next year . And then there is nine year old Christina Taylor Green . Christina was an A student she was a dancer she was a gymnast she was a swimmer . She decided that she wanted to be the first woman to play in the Major Leagues , and as the only girl on her Little League team , no one put it past her . She showed an appreciation for life uncommon for a girl her age . She had remind her mother , We are so blessed . We have the best life . And she had pay those blessings back by participating in a charity that helped children who were less fortunate . Our hearts are broken by their sudden passing . Our hearts are broken and yet , our hearts also have reason for fullness . Our hearts are full of hope and thanks for the 13 Americans who survived the shooting , including the congresswoman many of them went to see on Saturday . I have just come from the University Medical Center , just a mile from here , where our friend Gabby courageously fights to recover even as we speak . And I want to tell you her husband Mark is here and he allows me to share this with you right after we went to visit , a few minutes after we left her room and some of her colleagues in Congress were in the room , Gabby opened her eyes for the first time . Gabby opened her eyes for the first time . Gabby opened her eyes . Gabby opened her eyes , so I can tell you she knows we are here . She knows we love her . And she knows that we are rooting for her through what is undoubtedly going to be a difficult journey . We are there for her . Our hearts are full of thanks for that good news , and our hearts are full of gratitude for those who saved others . We are grateful to Daniel Hernandez a volunteer in Gabby s office . And , Daniel , I am sorry , you may deny it , but we have decided you are a hero because you ran through the chaos to minister to your boss , and tended to her wounds and helped keep her alive . We are grateful to the men who tackled the gunman as he stopped to reload . Right over there . We are grateful for petite Patricia Maisch , who wrestled away the killer s ammunition , and undoubtedly saved some lives . And we are grateful for the doctors and nurses and first responders who worked wonders to heal those who d been hurt . We are grateful to them . These men and women remind us that heroism is found not only on the fields of battle . They remind us that heroism does not require special training or physical strength . Heroism is here , in the hearts of so many of our fellow citizens , all around us , just waiting to be summoned as it was on Saturday morning . Their actions , their selflessness poses a challenge to each of us . It raises a question of what , beyond prayers and expressions of concern , is required of us going forward . How can we honor the fallen How can we be true to their memory You see , when a tragedy like this strikes , it is part of our nature to demand explanations to try and pose some order on the chaos and make sense out of that which seems senseless . Already we have seen a national conversation commence , not only about the motivations behind these killings , but about everything from the merits of gun safety laws to the adequacy of our mental health system . And much of this process , of debating what might be done to prevent such tragedies in the future , is an essential ingredient in our exercise of self government . But at a time when our discourse has become so sharply polarized at a time when we are far too eager to lay the blame for all that ails the world at the feet of those who happen to think differently than we do it is important for us to pause for a moment and make sure that we are talking with each other in a way that heals , not in a way that wounds . Scripture tells us that there is evil in the world , and that terrible things happen for reasons that defy human understanding . In the words of Job , When I looked for light , then came darkness . Bad things happen , and we have to guard against simple explanations in the aftermath . For the truth is none of us can know exactly what triggered this vicious attack . None of us can know with any certainty what might have stopped these shots from being fired , or what thoughts lurked in the inner recesses of a violent man s mind . Yes , we have to examine all the facts behind this tragedy . We cannot and will not be passive in the face of such violence . We should be willing to challenge old assumptions in order to lessen the prospects of such violence in the future . But what we cannot do is use this tragedy as one more occasion to turn on each other . That we cannot do . That we cannot do . As we discuss these issues , let each of us do so with a good dose of humility . Rather than pointing fingers or assigning blame , let us use this occasion to expand our moral imaginations , to listen to each other more carefully , to sharpen our instincts for empathy and remind ourselves of all the ways that our hopes and dreams are bound together . After all , that is what most of us do when we lose somebody in our family especially if the loss is unexpected . We are shaken out of our routines . We are forced to look inward . We reflect on the past Did we spend enough time with an aging parent , we wonder . Did we express our gratitude for all the sacrifices that they made for us Did we tell a spouse just how desperately we loved them , not just once in a while but every single day So sudden loss causes us to look backward but it also forces us to look forward to reflect on the present and the future , on the manner in which we live our lives and nurture our relationships with those who are still with us . We may ask ourselves if we have shown enough kindness and generosity and compassion to the people in our lives . Perhaps we question whether we are doing right by our children , or our community , whether our priorities are in order . We recognize our own mortality , and we are reminded that in the fleeting time we have on this Earth , what matters is not wealth , or status , or power , or fame but rather , how well we have loved and what small part we have played in making the lives of other people better . And that process that process of reflection , of making sure we align our values with our actions that , I believe , is what a tragedy like this requires . For those who were harmed , those who were killed they are part of our family , an American family 300 million strong . We may not have known them personally , but surely we see ourselves in them . In George and Dot , in Dorwan and Mavy , we sense the abiding love we have for our own husbands , our own wives , our own life partners . Phyllis she is our mom or our grandma Gabe our brother or son . In Judge Roll , we recognize not only a man who prized his family and doing his job well , but also a man who embodied America s fidelity to the law . And in Gabby in Gabby , we see a reflection of our public spiritedness that desire to participate in that sometimes frustrating , sometimes contentious , but always necessary and never ending process to form a more perfect union . And in Christina in Christina we see all of our children . So curious , so trusting , so energetic , so full of magic . So deserving of our love . And so deserving of our good example . If this tragedy prompts reflection and debate as it should let us make sure it is worthy of those we have lost . Let us make sure it is not on the usual plane of politics and point scoring and pettiness that drifts away in the next news cycle . The loss of these wonderful people should make every one of us strive to be better . To be better in our private lives , to be better friends and neighbors and coworkers and parents . And if , as has been discussed in recent days , their death helps usher in more civility in our public discourse , let us remember it is not because a simple lack of civility caused this tragedy it did not but rather because only a more civil and honest public discourse can help us face up to the challenges of our nation in a way that would make them proud . We should be civil because we want to live up to the example of public servants like John Roll and Gabby Giffords , who knew first and foremost that we are all Americans , and that we can question each other s ideas without questioning each other s love of country and that our task , working together , is to constantly widen the circle of our concern so that we bequeath the American Dream to future generations . They believed they believed , and I believe that we can be better . Those who died here , those who saved life here they help me believe . We may not be able to stop all evil in the world , but I know that how we treat one another , that is entirely up to us . And I believe that for all our imperfections , we are full of decency and goodness , and that the forces that divide us are not as strong as those that unite us . That is what I believe , in part because that is what a child like Christina Taylor Green believed . Imagine imagine for a moment , here was a young girl who was just becoming aware of our democracy just beginning to understand the obligations of citizenship just starting to glimpse the fact that some day she , too , might play a part in shaping her nation s future . She had been elected to her student council . She saw public service as something exciting and hopeful . She was off to meet her congresswoman , someone she was sure was good and important and might be a role model . She saw all this through the eyes of a child , undimmed by the cynicism or vitriol that we adults all too often just take for granted . I want to live up to her expectations . I want our democracy to be as good as Christina imagined it . I want America to be as good as she imagined it . All of us we should do everything we can to make sure this country lives up to our children s expectations . As has already been mentioned , Christina was given to us on September 11th , 2001 , one of 50 babies born that day to be pictured in a book called Faces of Hope . On either side of her photo in that book were simple wishes for a child s life . I hope you help those in need , read one . I hope you know all the words to the National Anthem and sing it with your hand over your heart . I hope you jump in rain puddles . If there are rain puddles in Heaven , Christina is jumping in them today . And here on this Earth here on this Earth , we place our hands over our hearts , and we commit ourselves as Americans to forging a country that is forever worthy of her gentle , happy spirit . May God bless and keep those we have lost in restful and eternal peace . May He love and watch over the survivors . And may He bless the United States of America .<speech_sep>Well , you know I love you back . It is a rare honor in this life to follow one of your heroes . And John Lewis is one of my heroes . Now , I have to imagine that when a younger John Lewis woke up that morning 50 years ago and made his way to Brown Chapel , heroics were not on his mind . A day like this was not on his mind . Young folks with bedrolls and backpacks were milling about . Veterans of the movement trained newcomers in the tactics of non violence the right way to protect yourself when attacked . A doctor described what tear gas does to the body , while marchers scribbled down instructions for contacting their loved ones . The air was thick with doubt , anticipation and fear . And they comforted themselves with the final verse of the final hymn they sung No matter what may be the test , God will take care of you Lean , weary one , upon His breast , God will take care of you . And then , his knapsack stocked with an apple , a toothbrush , and a book on government all you need for a night behind bars John Lewis led them out of the church on a mission to change America . President and Bush , Governor Bentley , Mayor Evans , Sewell , Reverend Strong , members of Congress , elected officials , foot soldiers , friends , fellow Americans As John noted , there are places and moments in America where this nation s destiny has been decided . Many are sites of war Concord and Lexington , Appomattox , Gettysburg . Others are sites that symbolize the daring of America s character Independence Hall and Seneca Falls , Kitty Hawk and Cape Canaveral . Selma is such a place . In one afternoon 50 years ago , so much of our turbulent history the stain of slavery and anguish of civil war the yoke of segregation and tyranny of Jim Crow the death of four little girls in Birmingham and the dream of a Baptist preacher all that history met on this bridge . It was not a clash of armies , but a clash of wills a contest to determine the true meaning of America . And because of men and women like John Lewis , Joseph Lowery , Hosea Williams , Amelia Boynton , Diane Nash , Ralph Abernathy , Vivian , Andrew Young , Fred Shuttlesworth , Martin Luther King , , and so many others , the idea of a just America and a fair America , an inclusive America , and a generous America that idea ultimately triumphed . As is true across the landscape of American history , we cannot examine this moment in isolation . The march on Selma was part of a broader campaign that spanned generations the leaders that day part of a long line of heroes . We gather here to celebrate them . We gather here to honor the courage of ordinary Americans willing to endure billy clubs and the chastening rod tear gas and the trampling hoof men and women who despite the gush of blood and splintered bone would stay true to their North Star and keep marching towards justice . They did as Scripture instructed Rejoice in hope , be patient in tribulation , be constant in prayer . And in the days to come , they went back again and again . When the trumpet call sounded for more to join , the people came black and white , young and old , Christian and Jew , waving the American flag and singing the same anthems full of faith and hope . A white newsman , Bill Plante , who covered the marches then and who is with us here today , quipped that the growing number of white people lowered the quality of the singing . To those who marched , though , those old gospel songs must have never sounded so sweet . In time , their chorus would well up and reach President Johnson . And he would send them protection , and speak to the nation , echoing their call for America and the world to hear We shall overcome . What enormous faith these men and women had . Faith in God , but also faith in America . The Americans who crossed this bridge , they were not physically imposing . But they gave courage to millions . They held no elected office . But they led a nation . They marched as Americans who had endured hundreds of years of brutal violence , countless daily indignities but they did not seek special treatment , just the equal treatment promised to them almost a century before . What they did here will reverberate through the ages . Not because the change they won was preordained not because their victory was complete but because they proved that nonviolent change is possible , that love and hope can conquer hate . As we commemorate their achievement , we are well served to remember that at the time of the marches , many in power condemned rather than praised them . Back then , they were called Communists , or half breeds , or outside agitators , sexual and moral degenerates , and worse they were called everything but the name their parents gave them . Their faith was questioned . Their lives were threatened . Their patriotism challenged . And yet , what could be more American than what happened in this place What could more profoundly vindicate the idea of America than plain and humble people unsung , the downtrodden , the dreamers not of high station , not born to wealth or privilege , not of one religious tradition but many , coming together to shape their country s course What greater expression of faith in the American experiment than this , what greater form of patriotism is there than the belief that America is not yet finished , that we are strong enough to be self critical , that each successive generation can look upon our imperfections and decide that it is in our power to remake this nation to more closely align with our highest ideals That is why Selma is not some outlier in the American experience . That is why it is not a museum or a static monument to behold from a distance . It is instead the manifestation of a creed written into our founding documents We the People hellip in order to form a more perfect union . We hold these truths to be self evident , that all men are created equal . These are not just words . They are a living thing , a call to action , a roadmap for citizenship and an insistence in the capacity of free men and women to shape our own destiny . For founders like Franklin and Jefferson , for leaders like Lincoln and FDthe success of our experiment in self government rested on engaging all of our citizens in this work . And that is what we celebrate here in Selma . That is what this movement was all about , one leg in our long journey toward freedom . The American instinct that led these young men and women to pick up the torch and cross this bridge , that is the same instinct that moved patriots to choose revolution over tyranny . It is the same instinct that drew immigrants from across oceans and the Rio Grande the same instinct that led women to reach for the ballot , workers to organize against an unjust status quo the same instinct that led us to plant a flag at Iwo Jima and on the surface of the Moon . It is the idea held by generations of citizens who believed that America is a constant work in progress who believed that loving this country requires more than singing its praises or avoiding uncomfortable truths . It requires the occasional disruption , the willingness to speak out for what is right , to shake up the status quo . That is America . That is what makes us unique . That is what cements our reputation as a beacon of opportunity . Young people behind the Iron Curtain would see Selma and eventually tear down that wall . Young people in Soweto would hear Bobby Kennedy talk about ripples of hope and eventually banish the scourge of apartheid . Young people in Burma went to prison rather than submit to military rule . They saw what John Lewis had done . From the streets of Tunis to the Maidan in Ukraine , this generation of young people can draw strength from this place , where the powerless could change the world s greatest power and push their leaders to expand the boundaries of freedom . They saw that idea made real right here in Selma , Alabama . They saw that idea manifest itself here in America . Because of campaigns like this , a Voting Rights Act was passed . Political and economic and social barriers came down . And the change these men and women wrought is visible here today in the presence of African Americans who run boardrooms , who sit on the bench , who serve in elected office from small towns to big cities from the Congressional Black Caucus all the way to the Oval Office . Because of what they did , the doors of opportunity swung open not just for black folks , but for every American . Women marched through those doors . Latinos marched through those doors . Asian Americans , gay Americans , Americans with disabilities they all came through those doors . Their endeavors gave the entire South the chance to rise again , not by reasserting the past , but by transcending the past . What a glorious thing , King might say . And what a solemn debt we owe . Which leads us to ask , just how might we repay that debt First and foremost , we have to recognize that one day s commemoration , no matter how special , is not enough . If Selma taught us anything , it is that our work is never done . The American experiment in self government gives work and purpose to each generation . Selma teaches us , as well , that action requires that we shed our cynicism . For when it comes to the pursuit of justice , we can afford neither complacency nor despair . Just this week , I was asked whether I thought the Department of Justice s Ferguson report shows that , with respect to race , little has changed in this country . And I understood the question the report s narrative was sadly familiar . It evoked the kind of abuse and disregard for citizens that spawned the Civil Rights Movement . But I rejected the notion that nothing s changed . What happened in Ferguson may not be unique , but it is no longer endemic . It is no longer sanctioned by law or by custom . And before the Civil Rights Movement , it most surely was . We do a disservice to the cause of justice by intimating that bias and discrimination are immutable , that racial division is inherent to America . If you think nothing s changed in the past 50 years , ask somebody who lived through the Selma or Chicago or Los Angeles of the 1950s . Ask the female CEO who once might have been assigned to the secretarial pool if nothing s changed . Ask your gay friend if it is easier to be out and proud in America now than it was thirty years ago . To deny this progress , this hard won progress our progress would be to rob us of our own agency , our own capacity , our responsibility to do what we can to make America better . Of course , a more common mistake is to suggest that Ferguson is an isolated incident that racism is banished that the work that drew men and women to Selma is now complete , and that whatever racial tensions remain are a consequence of those seeking to play the race card for their own purposes . We do not need the Ferguson report to know that is not true . We just need to open our eyes , and our ears , and our hearts to know that this nation s racial history still casts its long shadow upon us . We know the march is not yet over . We know the race is not yet won . We know that reaching that blessed destination where we are judged , all of us , by the content of our character requires admitting as much , facing up to the truth . We are capable of bearing a great burden , James Baldwin once wrote , once we discover that the burden is reality and arrive where reality is . There is nothing America cannot handle if we actually look squarely at the problem . And this is work for all Americans , not just some . Not just whites . Not just blacks . If we want to honor the courage of those who marched that day , then all of us are called to possess their moral imagination . All of us will need to feel as they did the fierce urgency of now . All of us need to recognize as they did that change depends on our actions , on our attitudes , the things we teach our children . And if we make such an effort , no matter how hard it may sometimes seem , laws can be passed , and consciences can be stirred , and consensus can be built . With such an effort , we can make sure our criminal justice system serves all and not just some . Together , we can raise the level of mutual trust that policing is built on the idea that police officers are members of the community they risk their lives to protect , and citizens in Ferguson and New York and Cleveland , they just want the same thing young people here marched for 50 years ago the protection of the law . Together , we can address unfair sentencing and overcrowded prisons , and the stunted circumstances that rob too many boys of the chance to become men , and rob the nation of too many men who could be good dads , and good workers , and good neighbors . With effort , we can roll back poverty and the roadblocks to opportunity . Americans do not accept a free ride for anybody , nor do we believe in equality of outcomes . But we do expect equal opportunity . And if we really mean it , if we are not just giving lip service to it , but if we really mean it and are willing to sacrifice for it , then , yes , we can make sure every child gets an education suitable to this new century , one that expands imaginations and lifts sights and gives those children the skills they need . We can make sure every person willing to work has the dignity of a job , and a fair wage , and a real voice , and sturdier rungs on that ladder into the middle class . And with effort , we can protect the foundation stone of our democracy for which so many marched across this bridge and that is the right to vote . Right now , in 2015 , 50 years after Selma , there are laws across this country designed to make it harder for people to vote . As we speak , more of such laws are being proposed . Meanwhile , the Voting Rights Act , the culmination of so much blood , so much sweat and tears , the product of so much sacrifice in the face of wanton violence , the Voting Rights Act stands weakened , its future subject to political rancor . How can that be The Voting Rights Act was one of the crowning achievements of our democracy , the result of Republican and Democratic efforts . President Reagan signed its renewal when he was in office . President George Bush signed its renewal when he was in office . One hundred members of Congress have come here today to honor people who were willing to die for the right to protect it . If we want to honor this day , let that hundred go back to Washington and gather four hundred more , and together , pledge to make it their mission to restore that law this year . That is how we honor those on this bridge . Of course , our democracy is not the task of Congress alone , or the courts alone , or even the President alone . If every new voter suppression law was struck down today , we would still have , here in America , one of the lowest voting rates among free peoples . Fifty years ago , registering to vote here in Selma and much of the South meant guessing the number of jellybeans in a jar , the number of bubbles on a bar of soap . It meant risking your dignity , and sometimes , your life . What is our excuse today for not voting How do we so casually discard the right for which so many fought How do we so fully give away our power , our voice , in shaping America s future Why are we pointing to somebody else when we could take the time just to go to the polling places We give away our power . Fellow marchers , so much has changed in 50 years . We have endured war and we have fashioned peace . We have seen technological wonders that touch every aspect of our lives . We take for granted conveniences that our parents could have scarcely imagined . But what has not changed is the imperative of citizenship that willingness of a 26 year old deacon , or a Unitarian minister , or a young mother of five to decide they loved this country so much that they had risk everything to realize its promise . That is what it means to love America . That is what it means to believe in America . That is what it means when we say America is exceptional . For we were born of change . We broke the old aristocracies , declaring ourselves entitled not by bloodline , but endowed by our Creator with certain inalienable rights . We secure our rights and responsibilities through a system of self government , of and by and for the people . That is why we argue and fight with so much passion and conviction because we know our efforts matter . We know America is what we make of it . Look at our history . We are Lewis and Clark and Sacajawea , pioneers who braved the unfamiliar , followed by a stampede of farmers and miners , and entrepreneurs and hucksters . That is our spirit . That is who we are . We are Sojourner Truth and Fannie Lou Hamer , women who could do as much as any man and then some . And we are Susan Anthony , who shook the system until the law reflected that truth . That is our character . We are the immigrants who stowed away on ships to reach these shores , the huddled masses yearning to breathe free Holocaust survivors , Soviet defectors , the Lost Boys of Sudan . We are the hopeful strivers who cross the Rio Grande because we want our kids to know a better life . That is how we came to be . We are the slaves who built the White House and the economy of the South . We are the ranch hands and cowboys who opened up the West , and countless laborers who laid rail , and raised skyscrapers , and organized for workers rights . We are the fresh faced GIs who fought to liberate a continent . And we are the Tuskeegee Airmen , and the Navajo code talkers , and the Japanese Americans who fought for this country even as their own liberty had been denied . We are the firefighters who rushed into those buildings on 9 11 , the volunteers who signed up to fight in Afghanistan and Iraq . We are the gay Americans whose blood ran in the streets of San Francisco and New York , just as blood ran down this bridge . We are storytellers , writers , poets , artists who abhor unfairness , and despise hypocrisy , and give voice to the voiceless , and tell truths that need to be told . We are the inventors of gospel and jazz and blues , bluegrass and country , and hip hop and rock and roll , and our very own sound with all the sweet sorrow and reckless joy of freedom . We are Jackie Robinson , enduring scorn and spiked cleats and pitches coming straight to his head , and stealing home in the World Series anyway . We are the people Langston Hughes wrote of who build our temples for tomorrow , strong as we know how . We are the people Emerson wrote of , who for truth and honor s sake stand fast and suffer long who are never tired , so long as we can see far enough . That is what America is . Not stock photos or airbrushed history , or feeble attempts to define some of us as more American than others . We respect the past , but we do not pine for the past . We do not fear the future we grab for it . America is not some fragile thing . We are large , in the words of Whitman , containing multitudes . We are boisterous and diverse and full of energy , perpetually young in spirit . That is why someone like John Lewis at the ripe old age of 25 could lead a mighty march . And that is what the young people here today and listening all across the country must take away from this day . You are America . Unconstrained by habit and convention . Unencumbered by what is , because you are ready to seize what ought to be . For everywhere in this country , there are first steps to be taken , there is new ground to cover , there are more bridges to be crossed . And it is you , the young and fearless at heart , the most diverse and educated generation in our history , who the nation is waiting to follow . Because Selma shows us that America is not the project of any one person . Because the single most powerful word in our democracy is the word We . We The People . We Shall Overcome . Yes We Can . That word is owned by no one . It belongs to everyone . Oh , what a glorious task we are given , to continually try to improve this great nation of ours . Fifty years from Bloody Sunday , our march is not yet finished , but we are getting closer . Two hundred and thirty nine years after this nation s founding our union is not yet perfect , but we are getting closer . Our job s easier because somebody already got us through that first mile . Somebody already got us over that bridge . When it feels the road is too hard , when the torch we have been passed feels too heavy , we will remember these early travelers , and draw strength from their example , and hold firmly the words of the prophet Isaiah Those who hope in the Lord will renew their strength . They will soar on wings like eagles . They will run and not grow weary . They will walk and not be faint . We honor those who walked so we could run . We must run so our children soar . And we will not grow weary . For we believe in the power of an awesome God , and we believe in this country s sacred promise . May He bless those warriors of justice no longer with us , and bless the United States of America . Thank you , everybody .<speech_sep>Thank you , everybody . Please have a seat . You guys can sit down , too . Let me begin by saying thank you to a few people first of all , your outstanding Governor , Bill Ritter . Please give Bill a big round of applause . Lieutenant Governor Barbara O Brien . Secretary of State Bernie Buescher . Your outstanding Mayor , John Hickenlooper . Your new Senator , Michael Bennett . Your old senator , now my Secretary of the Interior , Ken Salazar . Mark Udall is not here , but give him a round of applause anyway . One of the outstanding leaders who helped shepherd this process through in record time please give Max Baucus of Montana a big round of applause . Thank you , Max . To Secretary Federico Pena , one of my national co chairs I would not be here if it were not for Federico . Thank you . To Representative Diana DeGette , who is a we are in her district . So , thank you so much . Representative Betsy Markey . Representative Jared Polis . Representative Ed Perlmutter . To all the other elected officials and outstanding leaders who are here . And to the whole Namaste family and Jones for outstanding work , congratulations . Give them a big round of applause . And to the best Vice President that we have had in a long time Joe Biden . It is great to be back in Denver . I was here last summer we had a good time to accept the nomination of my party and to make a promise to people of all parties that I would do all that I could to give every American the chance to make of their lives what they will to see their children climb higher than they did . And I am back today to say that we have begun the difficult work of keeping that promise . We have begun the essential work of keeping the American Dream alive in our time . And that is why we are here today . Now , I do not want to pretend that today marks the end of our economic problems . Nor does it constitute all of what we are going to have to do to turn our economy around . But today does mark the beginning of the end the beginning of what we need to do to create jobs for Americans scrambling in the wake of layoffs the beginning of what we need to do to provide relief for families worried they will not be able to pay next month s bills the beginning of the first steps to set our economy on a firmer foundation , paving the way to long term growth and prosperity . The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act that I will sign today a plan that meets the principles I laid out in January is the most sweeping economic recovery package in our history . It is the product of broad consultation and the recipient of broad support from business leaders , unions , public interest groups , from the Chamber of Commerce and the National Association of Manufacturers , as well as the AFL CI From Democrats and Republicans , mayors as well as governors . It is a rare thing in Washington for people with such diverse and different viewpoints to come together and support the same bill . And on behalf of our nation , I want to thank all of them for it , including your two outstanding Senators , Michael Bennett and Mark Udall , as well as all the members of your congressional delegation . They did an outstanding job and they deserve a big round of applause . I also want to thank Joe Biden for working behind the scenes from the very start to make this recovery act possible . I want to thank Speaker Pelosi and Harry Reid for acting so quickly and for proving that Congress could step up to this challenge . I have special thanks to Max Baucus , who is the Chairman of the Finance Committee . Without Max , none of this would have happened . He had to work overtime , and push his committee to work overtime . And I want to thank all the committee chairs and members of Congress for coming up with a plan that is both bold and balanced enough to meet the demands of this moment . The American people were looking to them for leadership , and that is what they provided . Now , what makes this recovery plan so important is not just that it will create or save 3 . 5 million jobs over the next two years , including 60 , 000 plus here in Colorado . It is that we are putting Americans to work doing the work that America needs done in critical areas that have been neglected for too long work that will bring real and lasting change for generations to come . Because we know we cannot build our economic future on the transportation and information networks of the past , we are remaking the American landscape with the largest new investment in our nation s infrastructure since Eisenhower built an Interstate Highway System in the 1950s . Because of this investment , nearly 400 , 000 men and women will go to work rebuilding our crumbling roads and bridges , repairing our faulty dams and levees , bringing critical broadband connections to businesses and homes in nearly every community in America , upgrading mass transit , building high speed rail lines that will improve travel and commerce throughout our nation . Because we know America cannot out compete the world tomorrow if our children are being out educated today , we are making the largest investment in education in our nation s history . It is an investment that will create jobs building 21st century classrooms and libraries and labs for millions of children across America . It will provide funds to train a new generation of math and science teachers , while giving aid to states and school districts to stop teachers from being laid off and education programs from being cut . In a place like New York City , 14 , 000 teachers who were set to be let go may now be able to continue pursuing their critical mission . It is an investment that will create a new 2 , 500 annual tax credit to put the dream of a college degree within reach for middle class families and make college affordable for 7 million students helping more of our sons and daughters aim higher , reach further , fulfill their God given potential . Because we know that spiraling health care costs are crushing families and businesses alike , we are taking the most meaningful steps in years towards modernizing our health care system . It is an investment that will take the long overdue step of computerizing America s medical records to reduce the duplication and waste that costs billions of health care dollars , and medical errors that cost thousands of lives each year . Further , thanks to the actions we have taken , 7 million Americans who lost their health care along the way will continue to get the coverage they need , and roughly 20 million more Americans can breathe a little easier knowing that their health care will not be cut due to a state budget shortfall . And a historic commitment to wellness initiatives will keep millions of Americans from setting foot in the doctor s office in the first place because these are preventable diseases and we are going to invest in prevention . So taken together with the enactment earlier this month of a long delayed law to extend health care to millions more children of working families we have done more in 30 days to advance the cause of health care reform than this country has done in an entire decade . And that is something we should be proud of . Because we know we cannot power America s future on energy that is controlled by foreign dictators , we are taking big steps down the road to energy independence , laying the groundwork for new green energy economies that can create countless well paying jobs . It is an investment that will double the amount of renewable energy produced over the next three years . Think about that double the amount of renewable energy in three years . Provide tax credits and loan guarantees to companies like Namaste , a company that will be expanding , instead of laying people off , as a result of the plan that I am about to sign . And in the process , we will transform the way we use energy . Today , the electricity we use is carried along a grid of lines and wires that date back to Thomas Edison a grid that cannot support the demands of this economy . This means we are using 19th and 20th century technologies to battle 21st century problems like climate change and energy security . It also means that places like North Dakota can that can produce a lot of wind energy cannot deliver it to communities that want it , leading to a gap between how much clean energy we are using and how much we could be using . The investment we are making today will create a newer , smarter electric grid that will allow for broader use of alternative energy . We will build on the work that is being done in places like Boulder a community that is on its that is on pace to be the world s first Smart Grid city . This investment will place Smart Meters in homes to make our energy bills lower , make outages less likely , and make it easier to use clean energy . It is an investment that will save taxpayers over 1 billion by slashing energy costs in our federal buildings by 25 percent save working families hundreds of dollars a year on their energy bills by weatherizing over 1 million homes . And it is an investment that takes the important first step towards a national transmission superhighway that will connect our cities to the windy plains of the Dakotas and the sunny deserts of the Southwest . Even beyond energy , from the National Institutes of Health to the National Science Foundation , this recovery act represents the biggest increase in basic research funding in the long history of America s noble endeavor to better understand our world . And just as President Kennedy sparked an explosion of innovation when he set America s sights on the moon , I hope this investment will ignite our imagination once more , spurring new discoveries and breakthroughs in science , in medicine , in energy , to make our economy stronger and our nation more secure and our planet safer for our children . Now , while this package is composed mostly of critical investments , it also includes aid to state and local governments to prevent layoffs of firefighters or police recruits in recruits like the ones in Columbus , Ohio , who were told that instead of being sworn in as officers , they were about to be let go . It includes help for those hardest hit by our economic crisis like the nearly 18 million Americans who will get larger unemployment checks in the mail . About a third of this package comes in the forms of tax cuts by the way , the most progressive in our history not only spurring job creation , but putting money in the pockets of 95 percent of hardworking families in America . So unlike the tax cuts that we have seen in recent years , the vast majority of these tax benefits will go not to the wealthiest Americans , but to the middle class with those workers who make the least benefiting the most . And it is a plan that rewards responsibility , lifting two million Americans from poverty by ensuring that anyone who works hard does not have to raise a child below the poverty line . So as a whole , this plan will help poor and working Americans pull themselves into the middle class in a way we have not seen in nearly 50 years . What I am signing , then , is a balanced plan with a mix of tax cuts and investments . It is a plan that is been put together without earmarks or the usual pork barrel spending . It is a plan that will be implemented with an unprecedented level of transparency and accountability . With a recovery package of this size comes a responsibility to assure every taxpayer that we are being careful with the money they work so hard to earn . And that is why I am assigning a team of managers to ensure that the precious dollars we have invested are being spent wisely and well . We will Governor Ritter , Mayor Hickenlooper , we are going to hold governors and local officials who receive the money to the same high standard . And we expect you , the American people , to hold us accountable for the results . And that is why we have created Recovery . gov a web site so that every American can go online and see how this money is being spent and what kind of job is being created , where those jobs are being created . We want transparency and accountability throughout this process . Now , as important as the step we take today is , this legislation represents only the first part of the broad strategy we need to address our economic crisis . In the coming days and weeks , I will be launching other aspects of the plan . We will need to stabilize , repair , and reform our banking system , and get credit flowing again to families and businesses . We will need to end the culture where we ignore problems until they become full blown crises instead of recognizing that the only way to build a thriving economy is to set and enforce firm rules of the road . We must stem the spread of foreclosures and falling home values for all Americans , and do everything we can to help responsible homeowners stay in their homes something I will talk more about tomorrow . And we will need to do everything in the short term to get our economy moving again , while at the same time recognizing that we have inherited a trillion dollar deficit , and we need to begin restoring fiscal discipline and taming our exploding deficits over the long term . None of this will be easy . The road to recovery will not be straight . We will make progress and there may be some slippage along the way . It will demand courage and discipline . It will demand a new sense of responsibility that is been missing from Wall Street all the way to Washington . There will be hazards and reverses . But I have every confidence that if we are willing to continue doing the critical work that must be done by each of us , by all of us then we will leave this struggling economy behind us , and come out on the other side , more prosperous as a people . For our American story is not and has never been about things coming easy . It is about rising to the moment when the moment is hard , and converting crisis into opportunity , and seeing to it that we emerge from whatever trials we face stronger than we were before . It is about rejecting the notion that our fate is somehow written for us , and instead laying claim to a destiny of our own making . That is what earlier generations of Americans have done , that is what we owe our children , that is what we are doing today . Thank you , Colorado . Let us get to work . Thank you .<speech_sep>I stand here today humbled by the task before us , grateful for the trust you have bestowed , mindful of the sacrifices borne by our ancestors . I thank President Bush for his service to our nation , as well as the generosity and cooperation he has shown throughout this transition . Forty four Americans have now taken the presidential oath . The words have been spoken during rising tides of prosperity and the still waters of peace . Yet , every so often the oath is taken amidst gathering clouds and raging storms . At these moments , America has carried on not simply because of the skill or vision of those in high office , but because We the People have remained faithful to the ideals of our forbearers , and true to our founding documents . So it has been . So it must be with this generation of Americans . That we are in the midst of crisis is now well understood . Our nation is at war , against a far reaching network of violence and hatred . Our economy is badly weakened , a consequence of greed and irresponsibility on the part of some , but also our collective failure to make hard choices and prepare the nation for a new age . Homes have been lost jobs shed businesses shuttered . Our health care is too costly our schools fail too many and each day brings further evidence that the ways we use energy strengthen our adversaries and threaten our planet . These are the indicators of crisis , subject to data and statistics . Less measurable but no less profound is a sapping of confidence across our land a nagging fear that America s decline is inevitable , and that the next generation must lower its sights . Today I say to you that the challenges we face are real . They are serious and they are many . They will not be met easily or in a short span of time . But know this , America they will be met . On this day , we gather because we have chosen hope over fear , unity of purpose over conflict and discord . On this day , we come to proclaim an end to the petty grievances and false promises , the recriminations and worn out dogmas , that for far too long have strangled our politics . We remain a young nation , but in the words of Scripture , the time has come to set aside childish things . The time has come to reaffirm our enduring spirit to choose our better history to carry forward that precious gift , that noble idea , passed on from generation to generation the God given promise that all are equal , all are free , and all deserve a chance to pursue their full measure of happiness . In reaffirming the greatness of our nation , we understand that greatness is never a given . It must be earned . Our journey has never been one of short cuts or settling for less . It has not been the path for the faint hearted for those who prefer leisure over work , or seek only the pleasures of riches and fame . Rather , it has been the risk takers , the doers , the makers of things some celebrated but more often men and women obscure in their labor , who have carried us up the long , rugged path towards prosperity and freedom . For us , they packed up their few worldly possessions and traveled across oceans in search of a new life . For us , they toiled in sweatshops and settled the West endured the lash of the whip and plowed the hard earth . For us , they fought and died , in places like Concord and Gettysburg Normandy and Khe Sahn . Time and again these men and women struggled and sacrificed and worked till their hands were raw so that we might live a better life . They saw America as bigger than the sum of our individual ambitions greater than all the differences of birth or wealth or faction . This is the journey we continue today . We remain the most prosperous , powerful nation on Earth . Our workers are no less productive than when this crisis began . Our minds are no less inventive , our goods and services no less needed than they were last week or last month or last year . Our capacity remains undiminished . But our time of standing pat , of protecting narrow interests and putting off unpleasant decisions that time has surely passed . Starting today , we must pick ourselves up , dust ourselves off , and begin again the work of remaking America . For everywhere we look , there is work to be done . The state of the economy calls for action , bold and swift , and we will act not only to create new jobs , but to lay a new foundation for growth . We will build the roads and bridges , the electric grids and digital lines that feed our commerce and bind us together . We will restore science to its rightful place , and wield technology s wonders to raise health care s quality and lower its cost . We will harness the sun and the winds and the soil to fuel our cars and run our factories . And we will transform our schools and colleges and universities to meet the demands of a new age . All this we can do . And all this we will do . Now , there are some who question the scale of our ambitions who suggest that our system cannot tolerate too many big plans . Their memories are short . For they have forgotten what this country has already done what free men and women can achieve when imagination is joined to common purpose , and necessity to courage . What the cynics fail to understand is that the ground has shifted beneath them that the stale political arguments that have consumed us for so long no longer apply . The question we ask today is not whether our government is too big or too small , but whether it works whether it helps families find jobs at a decent wage , care they can afford , a retirement that is dignified . Where the answer is yes , we intend to move forward . Where the answer is no , programs will end . And those of us who manage the public s dollars will be held to account to spend wisely , reform bad habits , and do our business in the light of day because only then can we restore the vital trust between a people and their government . Nor is the question before us whether the market is a force for good or ill . Its power to generate wealth and expand freedom is unmatched , but this crisis has reminded us that without a watchful eye , the market can spin out of control and that a nation cannot prosper long when it favors only the prosperous . The success of our economy has always depended not just on the size of our Gross Domestic Product , but on the reach of our prosperity on our ability to extend opportunity to every willing heart not out of charity , but because it is the surest route to our common good . As for our common defense , we reject as false the choice between our safety and our ideals . Our Founding Fathers , faced with perils we can scarcely imagine , drafted a charter to assure the rule of law and the rights of man , a charter expanded by the blood of generations . Those ideals still light the world , and we will not give them up for expedience s sake . And so to all other peoples and governments who are watching today , from the grandest capitals to the small village where my father was born know that America is a friend of each nation and every man , woman , and child who seeks a future of peace and dignity , and that we are ready to lead once more . Recall that earlier generations faced down fascism and communism not just with missiles and tanks , but with sturdy alliances and enduring convictions . They understood that our power alone cannot protect us , nor does it entitle us to do as we please . Instead , they knew that our power grows through its prudent use our security emanates from the justness of our cause , the force of our example , the tempering qualities of humility and restraint . We are the keepers of this legacy . Guided by these principles once more , we can meet those new threats that demand even greater effort even greater cooperation and understanding between nations . We will begin to responsibly leave Iraq to its people , and forge a hard earned peace in Afghanistan . With old friends and former foes , we will work tirelessly to lessen the nuclear threat , and roll back the specter of a warming planet . We will not apologize for our way of life , nor will we waver in its defense , and for those who seek to advance their aims by inducing terror and slaughtering innocents , we say to you now that our spirit is stronger and cannot be broken you cannot outlast us , and we will defeat you . For we know that our patchwork heritage is a strength , not a weakness . We are a nation of Christians and Muslims , Jews and Hindus and non believers . We are shaped by every language and culture , drawn from every end of this Earth and because we have tasted the bitter swill of civil war and segregation , and emerged from that dark chapter stronger and more united , we cannot help but believe that the old hatreds shall someday pass that the lines of tribe shall soon dissolve that as the world grows smaller , our common humanity shall reveal itself and that America must play its role in ushering in a new era of peace . To the Muslim world , we seek a new way forward , based on mutual interest and mutual respect . To those leaders around the globe who seek to sow conflict , or blame their society s ills on the West , know that your people will judge you on what you can build , not what you destroy . To those who cling to power through corruption and deceit and the silencing of dissent , know that you are on the wrong side of history but that we will extend a hand if you are willing to unclench your fist . To the people of poor nations , we pledge to work alongside you to make your farms flourish and let clean waters flow to nourish starved bodies and feed hungry minds . And to those nations like ours that enjoy relative plenty , we say we can no longer afford indifference to suffering outside our borders nor can we consume the world s resources without regard to effect . For the world has changed , and we must change with it . As we consider the road that unfolds before us , we remember with humble gratitude those brave Americans who , at this very hour , patrol far off deserts and distant mountains . They have something to tell us today , just as the fallen heroes who lie in Arlington whisper through the ages . We honor them not only because they are guardians of our liberty , but because they embody the spirit of service a willingness to find meaning in something greater than themselves . And yet , at this moment a moment that will define a generation it is precisely this spirit that must inhabit us all . For as much as government can do and must do , it is ultimately the faith and determination of the American people upon which this nation relies . It is the kindness to take in a stranger when the levees break , the selflessness of workers who would rather cut their hours than see a friend lose their job which sees us through our darkest hours . It is the firefighter s courage to storm a stairway filled with smoke , but also a parent s willingness to nurture a child , that finally decides our fate . Our challenges may be new . The instruments with which we meet them may be new . But those values upon which our success depends hard work and honesty , courage and fair play , tolerance and curiosity , loyalty and patriotism these things are old . These things are true . They have been the quiet force of progress throughout our history . What is demanded then is a return to these truths . What is required of us now is a new era of responsibility a recognition , on the part of every American , that we have duties to ourselves , our nation , and the world , duties that we do not grudgingly accept but rather seize gladly , firm in the knowledge that there is nothing so satisfying to the spirit , so defining of our character , than giving our all to a difficult task . This is the price and the promise of citizenship . This is the source of our confidence the knowledge that God calls on us to shape an uncertain destiny . This is the meaning of our liberty and our creed why men and women and children of every race and every faith can join in celebration across this magnificent mall , and why a man whose father less than sixty years ago might not have been served at a local restaurant can now stand before you to take a most sacred oath . So let us mark this day with remembrance , of who we are and how far we have traveled . In the year of America s birth , in the coldest of months , a small band of patriots huddled by dying campfires on the shores of an icy river . The capital was abandoned . The enemy was advancing . The snow was stained with blood . At a moment when the outcome of our revolution was most in doubt , the father of our nation ordered these words be read to the people Let it be told to the future world . . . that in the depth of winter , when nothing but hope and virtue could survive . . . that the city and the country , alarmed at one common danger , came forth to meet . America . In the face of our common dangers , in this winter of our hardship , let us remember these timeless words . With hope and virtue , let us brave once more the icy currents , and endure what storms may come . Let it be said by our children s children that when we were tested we refused to let this journey end , that we did not turn back nor did we falter and with eyes fixed on the horizon and God s grace upon us , we carried forth that great gift of freedom and delivered it safely to future generations . Thank you . God bless you . And may God bless the United States of America .<speech_sep>Good afternoon , everybody . Last night I had a chance to speak to the leaders of the House and the Senate and reached out to those who had both won and lost in both parties . I told John Boehner and Mitch McConnell that I look forward to working with them . And I thanked Nancy Pelosi and Harry Reid for their extraordinary leadership over the last two years . After what I am sure was a long night for a lot of you and needless to say it was for me I can tell you that some election nights are more fun than others . Some are exhilarating some are humbling . But every election , regardless of who wins and who loses , is a reminder that in our democracy , power rests not with those of us in elected office , but with the people we have the privilege to serve . Over the last few months I have had the opportunity to travel around the country and meet people where they live and where they work , from backyards to factory floors . I did some talking , but mostly I did a lot of listening . And yesterday s vote confirmed what I have heard from folks all across America People are frustrated they are deeply frustrated with the pace of our economic recovery and the opportunities that they hope for their children and their grandchildren . They want jobs to come back faster , they want paychecks to go further , and they want the ability to give their children the same chances and opportunities as they have had in life . The men and women who sent us here do not expect Washington to solve all their problems . But they do expect Washington to work for them , not against them . They want to know that their tax dollars are being spent wisely , not wasted , and that we are not going to leave our children a legacy of debt . They want to know that their voices are not being drowned out by a sea of lobbyists and special interests and partisan bickering . They want business to be done here openly and honestly . Now , I ran for this office to tackle these challenges and give voice to the concerns of everyday people . Over the last two years , we have made progress . But , clearly , too many Americans have not felt that progress yet , and they told us that yesterday . And as President , I take responsibility for that . What yesterday also told us is that no one party will be able to dictate where we go from here , that we must find common ground in order to set in order to make progress on some uncommonly difficult challenges . And I told John Boehner and Mitch McConnell last night I am very eager to sit down with members of both parties and figure out how we can move forward together . I am not suggesting this will be easy . I will not pretend that we will be able to bridge every difference or solve every disagreement . There is a reason we have two parties in this country , and both Democrats and Republicans have certain beliefs and certain principles that each feels cannot be compromised . But what I think the American people are expecting , and what we owe them , is to focus on those issues that affect their jobs , their security , and their future reducing our deficit , promoting a clean energy economy , making sure that our children are the best educated in the world , making sure that we are making the investments in technology that will allow us to keep our competitive edge in the global economy . Because the most important contest we face is not the contest between Democrats and Republicans . In this century , the most important competition we face is between America and our economic competitors around the world . To win that competition , and to continue our economic leadership , we are going to need to be strong and we are going to need to be united . None of the challenges we face lend themselves to simple solutions or bumper sticker slogans . Nor are the answers found in any one particular philosophy or ideology . As I have said before , no person , no party , has a monopoly on wisdom . And that is why I am eager to hear good ideas wherever they come from , whoever proposes them . And that is why I believe it is important to have an honest and civil debate about the choices that we face . That is why I want to engage both Democrats and Republicans in serious conversations about where we are going as a nation . And with so much at stake , what the American people do not want from us , especially here in Washington , is to spend the next two years refighting the political battles of the last two . We just had a tough election . We will have another in 2012 . I am not so na iuml ve as to think that everybody will put politics aside until then , but I do hope to make progress on the very serious problems facing us right now . And that is going to require all of us , including me , to work harder at building consensus . You know , a little over a month ago , we held a town hall meeting in Richmond , Virginia . And one of the most telling questions came from a small business owner who runs a tree care firm . He told me how hard he works and how busy he was how he does not have time to pay attention to all the back and forth in Washington . And he asked , is there hope for us returning to civility in our discourse , to a healthy legislative process , so as I strap on the boots again tomorrow , I know that you guys got it under control It is hard to have a faith in that right now , he said . I do believe there is hope for civility . I do believe there is hope for progress . And that is because I believe in the resiliency of a nation that is bounced back from much worse than what we are going through right now a nation that is overcome war and depression , that has been made more perfect in our struggle for individual rights and individual freedoms . Each time progress has come slowly and even painfully , but progress has always come because we have worked at it and because we have believed in it , and most of all , because we remembered that our first allegiance as citizens is not to party or region or faction , but to country because while we may be proud Democrats or proud Republicans , we are prouder to be Americans . And that is something that we all need to remember right now and in the coming months . And if we do , I have no doubt that we will continue this nation s long journey towards a better future . So with that , let me take some questions . I am going to start off with Ben Feller at AP . I think that there is no doubt that people s number one concern is the economy . And what they were expressing great frustration about is the fact that we have not made enough progress on the economy . We have stabilized the economy . We have got job growth in the private sectors . But people all across America are not feeling that progress . They do not see it . And they understand that I am the President of the United States , and that my core responsibility is making sure that we have got an economy that is growing , a middle class that feels secure , that jobs are being created . And so I think I have got to take direct responsibility for the fact that we have not made as much progress as we need to make . Now , moving forward , I think the question is going to be can Democrats and Republicans sit down together and come up with a set of ideas that address those core concerns . I am confident that we can . I think that there are some areas where it is going to be very difficult for us to agree on , but I think there are going to be a whole bunch of areas where we can agree on . I do not think there is anybody in America who thinks that we have got an energy policy that works the way it needs to that thinks that we should not be working on energy independence . And that gives opportunities for Democrats and Republicans to come together and think about , whether it is natural gas or energy efficiency or how we can build electric cars in this country , how do we move forward on that agenda . I think everybody in this country thinks that we have got to make sure our kids are equipped in terms of their education , their science background , their math backgrounds , to compete in this new global economy . And that is going to be an area where I think there is potential common ground . So on a whole range of issues , there are going to be areas where we disagree . I think the overwhelming message that I hear from the voters is that we want everybody to act responsibly in Washington . We want you to work harder to arrive at consensus . We want you to focus completely on jobs and the economy and growing it , so that we are ensuring a better future for our children and our grandchildren . And I think that there is no doubt that as I reflect on the results of the election , it underscores for me that I have got to do a better job , just like everybody else in Washington does . Well , I think John Boehner and I and Mitch McConnell and Harry Reid and Nancy Pelosi are going to have to sit down and work together because I suspect that if you talk to any individual voter yesterday , they had say , there are some things I agree with Democrats on , there are some things I agree with Republicans on . I do not think people carry around with them a fixed ideology . I think the majority of people , they are going about their business , going about their lives . They just want to make sure that we are making progress . And that is going to be my top priority over the next couple of years . Savannah Guthrie . Well , Savannah , that was just the first question , so we are going to have a few more here . I am doing a whole lot of reflecting and I think that there are going to be areas in policy where we are going to have to do a better job . I think that over the last two years , we have made a series of very tough decisions , but decisions that were right in terms of moving the country forward in an emergency situation where we had the risk of slipping into a second Great Depression . But what is absolutely true is that with all that stuff coming at folks fast and furious a recovery package , what we had to do with respect to the banks , what we had to do with respect to the auto companies I think people started looking at all this and it felt as if government was getting much more intrusive into people s lives than they were accustomed to . Now , the reason was it was an emergency situation . But I think it is understandable that folks said to themselves , you know , maybe this is the agenda , as opposed to a response to an emergency . And that is something that I think everybody in the White House understood was a danger . We thought it was necessary , but I am sympathetic to folks who looked at it and said this is looking like potential overreach . In addition , there were a bunch of price tags that went with that . And so , even though these were emergency situations , people rightly said , gosh , we already have all this debt , we already have these big deficits this is potentially going to compound it , and at what point are we going to get back to a situation where we are doing what families all around the country do , which is make sure that if you spend something you know how to pay for it as opposed to racking up the credit card for the next generation . And I think that the other thing that happened is that when I won election in 2008 , one of the reasons I think that people were excited about the campaign was the prospect that we would change how business is done in Washington . And we were in such a hurry to get things done that we did not change how things got done . And I think that frustrated people . I am a strong believer that the earmarking process in Congress is not what the American people really want to see when it comes to making tough decisions about how taxpayer dollars are spent . And in the rush to get things done , had to sign a bunch of bills that had earmarks in them , which was contrary to what I had talked about . And I think folks look at that and they said , gosh , this feels like the same partisan squabbling , this seems like the same ways of doing business as happened before . And so one of the things that I have got to take responsibility for is not having moved enough on those fronts . And I think there is an opportunity to move forward on some of those issues . My understanding is Eric Cantor today said that he wanted to see a moratorium on earmarks continuing . That is something I think we can we can work on together . Well , Savannah , I think that what I think is absolutely true is voters are not satisfied with the outcomes . If right now we had 5 percent unemployment instead of 9 . 6 percent unemployment , then people would have more confidence in those policy choices . The fact is , is that for most folks , proof of whether they work or not is has the economy gotten back to where it needs to be . And it has not . And so my job is to make sure that I am looking at all ideas that are on the table . When it comes to job creation , if Republicans have good ideas for job growth that can drive down the unemployment rate , and we have not thought of them , we have not looked at them but we think they have a chance of working , we want to try some . So on the policy front , I think the most important thing is to say that we are not going to rule out ideas because they are Democrat or Republican we want to just see what works . And ultimately , I will be judged as President as to the bottom line , results . Mike Emanuel . Well , I know that there is some Republican candidates who won last night who feel very strongly about it . I am sure that this will be an issue that comes up in discussions with the Republican leadership . As I said before , though , I think we had be misreading the election if we thought that the American people want to see us for the next two years relitigate arguments that we had over the last two years . With respect to the health care law , generally and this may go to some of the questions that Savannah was raising you know , when I talk to a woman from New Hampshire who does not have to mortgage her house because she got cancer and is seeking treatment but now is able to get health insurance , when I talk to parents who are relieved that their child with a preexisting condition can now stay on their policy until they are 26 years old and give them time to transition to find a job that will give them health insurance , or the small businesses that are now taking advantage of the tax credits that are provided then I say to myself , this was the right thing to do . Now , if the Republicans have ideas for how to improve our health care system , if they want to suggest modifications that would deliver faster and more effective reform to a health care system that has been wildly expensive for too many families and businesses and certainly for our federal government , I am happy to consider some of those ideas . You know , for example , I know one of the things that is come up is that the 1099 provision in the health care bill appears to be too burdensome for small businesses . It just involves too much paperwork , too much filing . It is probably counterproductive . It was designed to make sure that revenue was raised to help pay for some of the other provisions , but if it ends up just being so much trouble that small businesses find it difficult to manage , that is something that we should take a look at . So there are going to be examples where I think we can tweak and make improvements on the progress that we have made . That is true for any significant piece of legislation . But I do not think that if you ask the American people , should we stop trying to close the doughnut hole that will help senior citizens get prescription drugs , should we go back to a situation where people with preexisting conditions cannot get health insurance , should we allow insurance companies to drop your coverage when you get sick even though you have been paying premiums I do not think that you had have a strong vote for people saying those are provisions I want to eliminate . Well , it also means one out of two voters think it was the right thing to do . And obviously this is an issue that has been contentious . But as I said , I think what is going to be useful is for us to go through the issues that Republicans have issues on not sort of talking generally , but let us talk specifics . Does this particular provision when it comes to preexisting conditions , is this something you are for or you are against Helping seniors get their prescription drugs does that make sense or not And if we take that approach which is different from campaigning I mean , this is now governing then I think that we can continue to make some progress and find some common ground . Chip Reid . Well , I think this is going to be an important question for Democrats and Republicans . I think the American people are absolutely concerned about spending and debt and deficits . And I am going to have a deficit commission that is putting forward its ideas . It is a bipartisan group that includes Republican and Democratic members of Congress . Hopefully they were able to arrive at some consensus on some areas where we can eliminate programs that do not work , cut back on government spending that is inefficient , can streamline government , but is not cutting into the core investments that are going to make sure that we are a competitive economy that is growing and providing opportunity for years to come . So the question I think that my Republican friends and me and Democratic leaders are going to have answer is , what are our priorities What do we care about And that is going to be a tough debate , because there are some tough choices here . We already had a big deficit that I inherited , and that has been made worse because of the recession . As we bring it down , I want to make sure that we are not cutting into education that is going to help define whether or not we can compete around the world . I do not think we should be cutting back on research and development , because if we can develop new technologies in areas like clean energy , that could make all the difference in terms of job creation here at home . I think the proposal that I put forward with respect to infrastructure is one that historically we have had bipartisan agreement about . And we should be able to agree now that it makes no sense for China to have better rail systems than us , and Singapore having better airports than us . And we just learned that China now has the fastest supercomputer on Earth that used to be us . They are making investments because they know those investments will pay off over the long term . And so in these budget discussions , the key is to be able to distinguish between stuff that is not adding to our growth , is not an investment in our future , and those things that are absolutely necessary for us to be able to increase job growth in the future as well . Now , the single most important thing I think we need to do economically and this is something that has to be done during the lame duck session is making sure that taxes do not go up on middle class families next year . And so we have got some work to do on that front to make sure that families not only are not seeing a higher tax burden which will automatically happen if Congress does not act but also making sure that business provisions that historically we have extended each year that , for example , provide tax breaks for companies that are investing here in the United States in research and development , that those are extended . I think it makes sense for us to extend unemployment insurance because there are still a lot of folks out there hurting . So there are some things that we can do right now that will help sustain the recovery and advance it , even as we are also sitting down and figuring out , okay , over the next several years what kinds of budget cuts can we make that are intelligent , that are smart , that will not be undermining our recovery but , in fact , will be encouraging job growth . Well , what is absolutely true is , is that without any Republican support on anything , then it is going to be hard to get things done . But I am not going to anticipate that they are not going to support anything . I think that part of the message sent to Republicans was we want to see stronger job growth in this country . And if there are good ideas about putting people to work that traditionally have garnered Republican support and that do not add to the deficit , then my hope is and expectation is , is that that is something they are willing to have a serious conversation about . When it comes to , for example , the proposal we put forward to accelerate depreciation for business , so that if they are building a plant or investing in new equipment next year , that they can take a complete write off next year , get a huge tax break next year , and that would then encourage a lot of businesses to get off the sidelines that is not historically considered a liberal idea . That is actually an idea that business groups and Republicans I think have supported for a very long time . So again , the question is going to be do we all come to the table with an open mind and say to ourselves , what do we think is actually going to make a difference for the American people That is how we are going to be judged over the next couple of years . Peter Baker . Well , I think I have been willing to compromise in the past and I am going to be willing to compromise going forward on a whole range of issues . Let me give you an example the issue of energy that I just mentioned . I think there are a lot of Republicans that ran against the energy bill that passed in the House last year . And so it is doubtful that you could get the votes to pass that through the House this year or next year or the year after . But that does not mean there is not agreement that we should have a better energy policy . And so let us find those areas where we can agree . We have got , I think , broad agreement that we have got terrific natural gas resources in this country . Are we doing everything we can to develop those There is a lot of agreement around the need to make sure that electric cars are developed here in the United States , that we do not fall behind other countries . Are there things that we can do to encourage that And there is already been bipartisan interest on those issues . There is been discussion about how we can restart our nuclear industry as a means of reducing our dependence on foreign oil and reducing greenhouse gases . Is that an area where we can move forward We were able , over the last two years , to increase for the first time in 30 years fuel efficiency standards on cars and trucks . We did not even need legislation . We just needed the cooperation of automakers and autoworkers and investors and other shareholders . And that is going to move us forward in a serious way . So I think when it comes to something like energy , what we are probably going to have to do is say here are some areas where there is just too much disagreement between Democrats and Republicans , we cannot get this done right now , but let us not wait . Let us go ahead and start making some progress on the things that we do agree on , and we can continue to have a strong and healthy debate about those areas where we do not . You know , I am sure there are going to be areas , particularly around , for example , reforming how Washington works , that I will be interested in . I think the American people want to see more transparency , more openness . As I said , in the midst of economic crisis , I think one of the things I take responsibility for is not having pushed harder on some of those issues . And I think if you take Republicans and Democrats at their word this is an area that they want to deliver on for the American people , I want to be supportive of that effort . Jake Tapper . And the second one is , President Bush when he went through a similar thing came out and he said this was a thumpin . You talked about how it was humbling , or you alluded to it perhaps being humbling . And I am wondering , when you call your friends , like Congressman Perriello or Governor Strickland , and you see 19 state legislatures go to the other side , governorships in swing states , the Democratic Party set back , what does it feel like It feels bad . You know , the toughest thing over the last couple of days is seeing really terrific public servants not have the opportunity to serve anymore , at least in the short term . And you mentioned there are just some terrific members of Congress who took really tough votes because they thought it was the right thing , even though they knew this could cause them political problems , and even though a lot of them came from really tough swing districts or majority Republican districts . And the amount of courage that they showed and conviction that they showed is something that I admire so much . I cannot overstate it . And so there is a not only sadness about seeing them go , but there is also a lot of questioning on my part in terms of could I have done something differently or done something more so that those folks would still be here . It is hard . And I take responsibility for it in a lot of ways . I will tell you , they have been incredibly gracious when I have conversations with them . And what they have told me is , you know , we do not have regrets because I feel like we were doing the right thing . And they may be just saying that to make me feel better , which , again , is a sign of their character and their class . And I hope a lot of them continue to pursue public service because I think they are terrific public servants . With respect to the tax cut issue , my goal is to make sure that we do not have a huge spike in taxes for middle class families . Not only would that be a terrible burden on families who are already going through tough times , it would be bad for our economy . It is very important that we are not taking a whole bunch of money out of the system from people who are most likely to spend that money on goods , services , groceries , buying a new winter coat for the kids . That is also why I think unemployment insurance is important . Not only is it the right thing to do for folks who are still looking for work and struggling in this really tough economy , but it is the right thing to do for the economy as a whole . So my goal is to sit down with Speaker elect Boehner and Mitch McConnell and Harry and Nancy sometime in the next few weeks and see where we can move forward in a way that , first of all , does no harm that extends those tax cuts that are very important for middle class families also extends those provisions that are important to encourage businesses to invest , and provide businesses some certainty over the next year or two . And how that negotiation works itself out I think is too early to say . But this is going to be one of my top priorities , and my hope is , is that given we all have an interest in growing the economy and encouraging job growth , that we are not going to play brinksmanship but instead we are going to act responsibly . Absolutely . Laura Meckler . And secondly , just to follow up on what you said about changing the way Washington works , do you think that you said you did not do enough to change the way things were handled in this city . Some of in order to get your health care bill passed you needed to make some of those deals . Do you wish , in retrospect , you had not made those deals even if it meant the collapse of the program I think that making sure that families had security and were on a trajectory to lower health care costs was absolutely critical for this country . But you are absolutely right that when you are navigating through a House and a Senate in this kind of pretty partisan environment that it is a ugly mess when it comes to process . And I think that is something that really affected how people viewed the outcome . That is something that I regret that we could not have made the process more healthier than it ended up being . But I think the outcome was a good one . With respect to the EPI think the smartest thing for us to do is to see if we can get Democrats and Republicans in a room who are serious about energy independence and are serious about keeping our air clean and our water clean and dealing with the issue of greenhouse gases and seeing are there ways that we can make progress in the short term and invest in technologies in the long term that start giving us the tools to reduce greenhouse gases and solve this problem . The EPA is under a court order that says greenhouse gases are a pollutant that fall under their jurisdiction . And I think one of the things that is very important for me is not to have us ignore the science , but rather to find ways that we can solve these problems that do not hurt the economy , that encourage the development of clean energy in this country , that , in fact , may give us opportunities to create entire new industries and create jobs that and that put us in a competitive posture around the world . So I think it is too early to say whether or not we can make some progress on that front . I think we can . Cap and trade was just one way of skinning the cat it was not the only way . It was a means , not an end . And I am going to be looking for other means to address this problem . And I think EPA wants help from the legislature on this . I do not think that the desire is to somehow be protective of their powers here . I think what they want to do is make sure that the issue is being dealt with . Ed Henry . And just on a policy front , do not ask , do not tell is something that you promised to end . And when you had 60 votes and 59 votes in the Senate it is a tough issue you have not been able to do it . Do you now have to tell your liberal base that with maybe 52 or 53 votes in the Senate , you are just not going to be able to get it done in the next two years Well , let me take the second issue first . I have been a strong believer in the notion that if somebody is willing to serve in our military , in uniform , putting their lives on the line for our security , that they should not be prevented from doing so because of their sexual orientation . And since there is been a lot of discussion about polls over the last 48 hours , I think it is worth noting that the overwhelming majority of Americans feel the same way . It is the right thing to do . Now , as Commander in Chief , I have said that making this change needs to be done in an orderly fashion . I have worked with the Pentagon , worked with Secretary Gates , worked with Admiral Mullen to make sure that we are looking at this in a systemic way that maintains good order and discipline , but that we need to change this policy . There is going to be a review that comes out at the beginning of the month that will have surveyed attitudes and opinions within the armed forces . I will expect that Secretary of Defense Gates and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Admiral Mullen will have something to say about that review . I will look at it very carefully . But that will give us time to act in potentially during the lame duck session to change this policy . Keep in mind we have got a bunch of court cases that are out there as well . And something that would be very disruptive to good order and discipline and unit cohesion is if we have got this issue bouncing around in the courts , as it already has over the last several weeks , where the Pentagon and the chain of command does not know at any given time what rules they are working under . We need to provide certainty and it is time for us to move this policy forward . And this should not be a partisan issue . This is an issue , as I said , where you have got a sizable portion of the American people squarely behind the notion that folks who are willing to serve on our behalf should be treated fairly and equally . Now , in terms of how we move forward , I think that the American people understand that we are still digging our way out of a pretty big mess . So I do not think anybody denies they think we are in a ditch . I just do not think they feel like we have gotten all the way out of the ditch yet . And to move the analogy forward that I used in the campaign , I think what they want right now is the Democrats and the Republicans both pushing some more to get the car on level ground . And we have not done that . If you think I was engaging in too much campaign rhetoric , saying the Republicans were just sitting on the side of the road , watching us get that car out of the ditch , at the very least we were pushing in opposite directions . And so Yes . And I think , look , here s the bottom line . When I came into office , this economy was in a freefall , and the economy has stabilized . The economy is growing . We have seen nine months of private sector job growth . So I think it would be hard to argue that we are going backwards . I think what you can argue is we are stuck in neutral . We are not moving the way we need to , to make sure that folks have the jobs , have the opportunity , are seeing economic growth in their communities the way they need to . And that is going to require Democrats and Republicans to come together and look for the best ideas to move things forward . It will not be easy , not just because Democrats and Republicans may have different priorities , as we were just discussing when it came to how we structure tax cuts , but because these issues are hard . The Republicans throughout the campaign said they are very concerned about debt and deficits . Well , one of the most important things we can do for debt and deficits is economic growth . So what other proposals do they have to grow the economy If , in fact , they are rejecting some of the proposals I have made , I want to hear from them what affirmative policies can make a difference in terms of encouraging job growth and promoting the economy because I do not think that tax cuts alone are going to be a recipe for the kind of expansion that we need . From 2001 to 2009 , we cut taxes pretty significantly , and we just did not see the kind of expansion that is going to be necessary in terms of driving the unemployment rate down significantly . So I think what we are going to need to do and what the American people want is for us to mix and match ideas , figure out those areas where we can agree on , move forward on those , disagree without being disagreeable on those areas that we cannot agree on . If we accomplish that , then there will be time for politics later , but over the next year I think we can solidify this recovery and give people a little more confidence out there . Hans Nichols . I might serve they are delicious drinks . The Slurpee Summit that is good , Chuck . I like that . Yes , I think this is an important question that we have been asking ourselves for several months now . You are right , as I reflect on what is happened over the last two years , one of the things that I think has not been managed by me as well as it needed to be was finding the right balance in making sure that businesses have rules of the road and are treating customers fairly and whether it is their credit cards or insurance or their mortgages but also making absolutely clear that the only way America succeeds is if businesses are succeeding . The reason we have got a unparalleled standard of living in the history of the world is because we have got a free market that is dynamic and entrepreneurial , and that free market has to be nurtured and cultivated . And there is no doubt that when you had the financial crisis on Wall Street , the bonus controversies , the battle around health care , the battle around financial reform , and then you had BP you just had a successive set of issues in which I think business took the message that , well , gosh , it seems like we may be always painted at the bad guy . And so I have got to take responsibility in terms of making sure that I make clear to the business community as well as to the country that the most important thing we can do is to boost and encourage our business sector and make sure that they are hiring . And so we do have specific plans in terms of how we can structure that outreach . Now , keep in mind over the last two years , we have been talking to CEOs constantly . And as I plan for my trip later this week to Asia , the whole focus is on how are we going to open up markets so that American businesses can prosper , and we can sell more goods and create more jobs here in the United States . And a whole bunch of corporate executives are going to be joining us so that I can help them open up those markets and allow them to sell their products . So there is been a lot of strong interaction behind the scenes . But I think setting the right tone publicly is going to be important and could end up making a difference at the margins in terms of how businesses make investment decisions . Well , I already discussed a couple with Chip that have not been acted on yet . You are right that I made these proposals two months ago , but or three months ago but it was in the midst of a campaign season where it was doubtful that they were going to get a full hearing , just because there was so much political noise going on . I think as we move forward , sitting down and talking to businesses , figuring out what exactly would help you make more investments that could create more jobs here in the United States , and listening hard to them in a context where maybe Democrats and Republicans are together so we are receiving the same message at the same time and then acting on that agenda could make a big difference . Matt Spetalnick of Reuters . There is a inherent danger in being in the White House and being in the bubble . I mean , folks did not have any complaints about my leadership style when I was running around Iowa for a year . And they got a pretty good look at me up close and personal , and they were able to lift the hood and kick the tires , and I think they understood that my story was theirs . I might have a funny name , I might have lived in some different places , but the values of hard work and responsibility and honesty and looking out for one another that had been instilled in them by their parents , those were the same values that I took from my mom and my grandparents . And so the track record has been that when I am out of this place , that is not an issue . When you are in this place , it is hard not to seem removed . And one of the challenges that we have got to think about is how do I meet my responsibilities here in the White House , which require a lot of hours and a lot of work , but still have that opportunity to engage with the American people on a day to day basis , and know give them confidence that I am listening to them . Those letters that I read every night , some of them just break my heart . Some of them provide me encouragement and inspiration . But nobody is filming me reading those letters . And so it is hard , I think , for people to get a sense of , well , how is he taking in all this information So I think there are more things that we can do to make sure that I am getting out of here . But , I mean , I think it is important to point out as well that a couple of great communicators , Ronald Reagan and Bill Clinton , were standing at this podium two years into their presidency getting very similar questions because the economy was not working the way it needed to be and there were a whole range of factors that made people concerned that maybe the party in power was not listening to them . This is something that I think every President needs to go through because the responsibilities of this office are so enormous and so many people are depending on what we do , and in the rush of activity , sometimes we lose track of the ways that we connected with folks that got us here in the first place . And that is something that now , I am not recommending for every future President that they take a shellacking like they like I did last night . I am sure there are easier ways to learn these lessons . But I do think that this is a growth process and an evolution . And the relationship that I have had with the American people is one that built slowly , peaked at this incredible high , and then during the course of the last two years , as we have , together , gone through some very difficult times , has gotten rockier and tougher . And it is going to , I am sure , have some more ups and downs during the course of me being in this office . But the one thing that I just want to end on is getting out of here is good for me , too , because when I travel around the country , even in the toughest of these debates in the midst of health care last year during the summer when there were protesters about , and when I am meeting families who have lost loved ones in Afghanistan or Iraq I always come away from those interactions just feeling so much more optimistic about this country . We have such good and decent people who , on a day to day basis , are finding all kinds of ways to live together and educate kids and grow their communities and improve their communities and create businesses and work together to create great new products and services . The American people always make me optimistic . And that is why , during the course of the last two years , as tough as it is been , as many sometimes scary moments as we have gone through , I have never doubted that we are going to emerge stronger than we were before . And I think that remains true , and I am just going to be looking forward to playing my part in helping that journey along . All right Thank you very much , everybody .<speech_sep>Madam Speaker , Vice President Biden , Members of Congress , distinguished guests , and fellow Americans Our Constitution declares that from time to time , the President shall give to Congress information about the state of our Union . For 220 years , our leaders have fulfilled this duty . They have done so during periods of prosperity and tranquility , and they have done so in the midst of war and depression , at moments of great strife and great struggle . It is tempting to look back on these moments and assume that our progress was inevitable , that America was always destined to succeed . But when the Union was turned back at Bull Run and the Allies first landed at Omaha Beach , victory was very much in doubt . When the market crashed on Black Tuesday and civil rights marchers were beaten on Bloody Sunday , the future was anything but certain . These were the times that tested the courage of our convictions and the strength of our Union . And despite all our divisions and disagreements , our hesitations and our fears , America prevailed because we chose to move forward as one Nation , as one people . Again , we are tested . And again , we must answer history s call . One year ago , I took office amid two wars , an economy rocked by a severe recession , a financial system on the verge of collapse , and a Government deeply in debt . Experts from across the political spectrum warned that if we did not act , we might face a second depression . So we acted , immediately and aggressively . And 1 year later , the worst of the storm has passed . But the devastation remains . One in 10 Americans still cannot find work . Many businesses have shuttered . Home values have declined . Small towns and rural communities have been hit especially hard . And for those who d already known poverty , life s become that much harder . This recession has also compounded the burdens that America s families have been dealing with for decades the burden of working harder and longer for less , of being unable to save enough to retire or help kids with college . So I know the anxieties that are out there right now . They are not new . These struggles are the reason I ran for President . These struggles are what I have witnessed for years , in places like Elkhart , Indiana Galesburg , Illinois . I hear about them in the letters that I read each night . The toughest to read are those written by children asking why they have to move from their home , asking when their mom or dad will be able to go back to work . For these Americans and so many others , change has not come fast enough . Some are frustrated , some are angry . They do not understand why it seems like bad behavior on Wall Street is rewarded , but hard work on Main Street is not , or why Washington has been unable or unwilling to solve any of our problems . They are tired of the partisanship and the shouting and the pettiness . They know we cannot afford it . Not now . So we face big and difficult challenges . And what the American people hope , what they deserve , is for all of us , Democrats and Republicans , to work through our differences , to overcome the numbing weight of our politics . For while the people who sent us here have different backgrounds , different stories , different beliefs , the anxieties they face are the same . The aspirations they hold are shared a job that pays the bills a chance to get ahead most of all , the ability to give their children a better life . And you know what else they share They share a stubborn resilience in the face of adversity . After one of the most difficult years in our history , they remain busy building cars and teaching kids , starting businesses and going back to school . They are coaching Little League and helping their neighbors . One woman wrote to me and said , We are strained but hopeful , struggling but encouraged . It is because of this spirit , this great decency and great strength , that I have never been more hopeful about America s future than I am tonight . Despite our hardships , our Union is strong . We do not give up . We do not quit . We do not allow fear or division to break our spirit . In this new decade , it is time the American people get a Government that matches their decency , that embodies their strength . And tonight I had like to talk about how together we can deliver on that promise . It begins with our economy . Our most urgent task upon taking office was to shore up the same banks that helped cause this crisis . It was not easy to do . And if there is one thing that has unified Democrats and Republicans and everybody in between , it is that we all hated the bank bailout . I hated it . I hated it you hated it . It was about as popular as a root canal . But when I ran for President , I promised I would not just do what was popular I would do what was necessary . And if we had allowed the meltdown of the financial system , unemployment might be double what it is today . More businesses would certainly have closed . More homes would have surely been lost . So I supported the last administration s efforts to create the financial rescue program . And when we took that program over , we made it more transparent and more accountable . And as a result , the markets are now stabilized , and we have recovered most of the money we spent on the banks most but not all . To recover the rest , I have proposed a fee on the biggest banks . Now , I know Wall Street is not keen on this idea . But if these firms can afford to hand out big bonuses again , they can afford a modest fee to pay back the taxpayers who rescued them in their time of need . Now , as we stabilized the financial system , we also took steps to get our economy growing again , save as many jobs as possible , and help Americans who had become unemployed . That is why we extended or increased unemployment benefits for more than 18 million Americans , made health insurance 65 percent cheaper for families who get their coverage through COBRand passed 25 different tax cuts . Now , let me repeat We cut taxes . We cut taxes for 95 percent of working families . We cut taxes for small businesses . We cut taxes for first time home buyers . We cut taxes for parents trying to care for their children . We cut taxes for 8 million Americans paying for college . I thought I had get some applause on that one . As a result , millions of Americans had more to spend on gas and food and other necessities , all of which helped businesses keep more workers . And we have not raised income taxes by a single dime on a single person not a single dime . Now , because of the steps we took , there are about 2 million Americans working right now who would otherwise be unemployed . Two hundred thousand work in construction and clean energy . Three hundred thousand are teachers and other education workers . Tens of thousands are cops , firefighters , correctional officers , first responders . And we are on track to add another 1 frac12 million jobs to this total by the end of the year . The plan that has made all of this possible , from the tax cuts to the jobs , is the Recovery Act . That is right , the Recovery Act , also known as the stimulus bill . Economists on the left and the right say this bill has helped save jobs and avert disaster . But you do not have to take their word for it . Talk to the small business in Phoenix that will triple its workforce because of the Recovery Act . Talk to the window manufacturer in Philadelphia who said he used to be skeptical about the Recovery Act , until he had to add two more work shifts just because of the business it created . Talk to the single teacher raising two kids who was told by her principal in the last week of school that because of the Recovery Act , she would not be laid off after all . There are stories like this all across America . And after 2 years of recession , the economy is growing again . Retirement funds have started to gain back some of their value . Businesses are beginning to invest again , and slowly some are starting to hire again . But I realize that for every success story , there are other stories , of men and women who wake up with the anguish of not knowing where their next paycheck will come from , who send out resumes week after week and hear nothing in response . That is why jobs must be our number one focus in 2010 , and that is why I am calling for a new jobs bill tonight . Now , the true engine of job creation in this country will always be America s businesses . I agree , absolutely . But Government can create the conditions necessary for businesses to expand and hire more workers . We should start where most new jobs do , in small businesses , companies that begin when an entrepreneur takes a chance on a dream or a worker decides it is time she became her own boss . Through sheer grit and determination , these companies have weathered the recession , and they are ready to grow . But when you talk to small business owners in places like Allentown , Pennsylvania , or Elyria , Ohio , you find out that even though banks on Wall Street are lending again , they are mostly lending to bigger companies . Financing remains difficult for small business owners across the country , even those that are making a profit . So tonight I am proposing that we take 30 billion of the money Wall Street banks have repaid and use it to help community banks give small businesses the credit they need to stay afloat . I am also proposing a new small business tax credit , one that will go to over 1 million small businesses who hire new workers or raise wages . While we are at it , let us also eliminate all capital gains taxes on small business investment and provide a tax incentive for all large businesses and all small businesses to invest in new plants and equipment . Next , we can put Americans to work today building the infrastructure of tomorrow . From the first railroads to the Interstate Highway System , our Nation has always been built to compete . There is no reason Europe or China should have the fastest trains or the new factories that manufacture clean energy products . Tomorrow I will visit Tampa , Florida , where workers will soon break ground on a new high speed railroad funded by the Recovery Act . There are projects like that all across this country that will create jobs and help move our Nation s goods , services , and information . We should put more Americans to work building clean energy facilities and give rebates to Americans who make their homes more energy efficient , which supports clean energy jobs . And to encourage these and other businesses to stay within our borders , it is time to finally slash the tax breaks for companies that ship our jobs overseas and give those tax breaks to companies that create jobs right here in the United States of America . Now , the House has passed a jobs bill that includes some of these steps . As the first order of business this year , I urge the Senate to do the same , and I know they will . They will . People are out of work . They are hurting . They need our help . And I want a jobs bill on my desk without delay . But the truth is , these steps will not make up for the 7 million jobs that we have lost over the last 2 years . The only way to move to full employment is to lay a new foundation for long term economic growth and finally address the problems that America s families have confronted for years . We cannot afford another so called economic expansion like the one from the last decade , what some call the lost decade , where jobs grew more slowly than during any prior expansion , where the income of the average American household declined while the cost of health care and tuition reached record highs , where prosperity was built on a housing bubble and financial speculation . From the day I took office , I have been told that addressing our larger challenges is too ambitious such an effort would be too contentious . I have been told that our political system is too gridlocked and that we should just put things on hold for a while . For those who make these claims , I have one simple question How long should we wait How long should America put its future on hold You see , Washington has been telling us to wait for decades , even as the problems have grown worse . Meanwhile , China s not waiting to revamp its economy . Germany s not waiting . India s not waiting . These nations are they are not standing still . These nations are not playing for second place . They are putting more emphasis on math and science . They are rebuilding their infrastructure . They are making serious investments in clean energy because they want those jobs . Well , I do not accept second place for the United States of America . As hard as it may be , as uncomfortable and contentious as the debates may become , it is time to get serious about fixing the problems that are hampering our growth . Now , one place to start is serious financial reform . Look , I am not interested in punishing banks . I am interested in protecting our economy . A strong , healthy financial market makes it possible for businesses to access credit and create new jobs . It channels the savings of families into investments that raise incomes . But that can only happen if we guard against the same recklessness that nearly brought down our entire economy . We need to make sure consumers and middle class families have the information they need to make financial decisions . We cannot allow financial institutions , including those that take your deposits , to take risks that threaten the whole economy . Now , the House has already passed financial reform with many of these changes , and the lobbyists are trying to kill it . But we cannot let them win this fight . And if the bill that ends up on my desk does not meet the test of real reform , I will send it back until we get it right . We have got to get it right . Next , we need to encourage American innovation . Last year , we made the largest investment in basic research funding in history , an investment that could lead to the world s cheapest solar cells or treatment that kills cancer cells but leaves healthy ones untouched . And no area is more ripe for such innovation than energy . You can see the results of last year s investments in clean energy in the North Carolina company that will create 1 , 200 jobs nationwide helping to make advanced batteries or in the California business that will put a thousand people to work making solar panels . But to create more of these clean energy jobs , we need more production , more efficiency , more incentives . And that means building a new generation of safe , clean nuclear powerplants in this country . It means making tough decisions about opening new offshore areas for oil and gas development . It means continued investment in advanced biofuels and clean coal technologies . And , yes , it means passing a comprehensive energy and climate bill with incentives that will finally make clean energy the profitable kind of energy in America . Now , I am grateful to the House for passing such a bill last year . And this year , I am eager to help advance the bipartisan effort in the Senate . I know there have been questions about whether we can afford such changes in a tough economy . I know that there are those who disagree with the overwhelming scientific evidence on climate change . But here s the thing Even if you doubt the evidence , providing incentives for energy efficiency and clean energy are the right thing to do for our future , because the nation that leads the clean energy economy will be the nation that leads the global economy . And America must be that nation . Third , we need to export more of our goods , because the more products we make and sell to other countries , the more jobs we support right here in America . So tonight we set a new goal We will double our exports over the next 5 years , an increase that will support 2 million jobs in America . To help meet this goal , we are launching a National Export Initiative that will help farmers and small businesses increase their exports and reform export controls consistent with national security . We have to seek new markets aggressively , just as our competitors are . If America sits on the sidelines while other nations sign trade deals , we will lose the chance to create jobs on our shores . But realizing those benefits also means enforcing those agreements so our trading partners play by the rules . And that is why we will continue to shape a Doha trade agreement that opens global markets and why we will strengthen our trade relations in Asia and with key partners like South Korea and Panama and Colombia . Fourth , we need to invest in the skills and education of our people . Now , this year , we have broken through the stalemate between left and right by launching a national competition to improve our schools . And the idea here is simple Instead of rewarding failure , we only reward success . Instead of funding the status quo , we only invest in reform , reform that raises student achievement , inspires students to excel in math and science , and turns around failing schools that steal the future of too many young Americans , from rural communities to the inner city . In the 21st century , the best antipoverty program around is a world class education . And in this country , the success of our children cannot depend more on where they live than on their potential . When we renew the Elementary and Secondary Education Act , we will work with Congress to expand these reforms to all 50 States . Still , in this economy , a high school diploma no longer guarantees a good job . That is why I urge the Senate to follow the House and pass a bill that will revitalize our community colleges , which are a career pathway to the children of so many working families . To make college more affordable , this bill will finally end the unwarranted taxpayer subsidies that go to banks for student loans . Instead , let us take that money and give families a 10 , 000 tax credit for 4 years of college and increase Pell grants . And let us tell another 1 million students that when they graduate , they will be required to pay only 10 percent of their income on student loans and all of their debt will be forgiven after 20 years and forgiven after 10 years if they choose a career in public service , because in the United States of America , no one should go broke because they chose to go to college . And by the way , it is time for colleges and universities to get serious about cutting their own costs , because they too have a responsibility to help solve this problem . Now , the price of college tuition is just one of the burdens facing the middle class . That is why last year , I asked Vice President Biden to chair a task force on middle class families . That is why we are nearly doubling the child care tax credit and making it easier to save for retirement by giving access to every worker a retirement account and expanding the tax credit for those who start a nest egg . That is why we are working to lift the value of a family s single largest investment , their home . The steps we took last year to shore up the housing market have allowed millions of Americans to take out new loans and save an average of 1 , 500 on mortgage payments . This year , we will step up refinancing so that homeowners can move into more affordable mortgages . And it is precisely to relieve the burden on middle class families that we still need health insurance reform . Yes , we do . Now , let us clear a few things up . I did not choose to tackle this issue to get some legislative victory under my belt . And by now it should be fairly obvious that I did not take on health care because it was good politics . I took on health care because of the stories I have heard from Americans with preexisting conditions whose lives depend on getting coverage , patients who have been denied coverage , families , even those with insurance , who are just one illness away from financial ruin . After nearly a century of trying Democratic administrations , Republican administrations we are closer than ever to bringing more security to the lives of so many Americans . The approach we have taken would protect every American from the worst practices of the insurance industry . It would give small businesses and uninsured Americans a chance to choose an affordable health care plan in a competitive market . It would require every insurance plan to cover preventive care . And by the way , I want to acknowledge our First Lady , Michelle Obama , who this year is creating a national movement to tackle the epidemic of childhood obesity and make kids healthier . Thank you , honey . She gets embarrassed . Our approach would preserve the right of Americans who have insurance to keep their doctor and their plan . It would reduce costs and premiums for millions of families and businesses . And according to the Congressional Budget Office , the independent organization that both parties have cited as the official scorekeeper for Congress , our approach would bring down the deficit by as much as 1 trillion over the next two decades . Still , this is a complex issue , and the longer it was debated , the more skeptical people became . I take my share of the blame for not explaining it more clearly to the American people . And I know that with all the lobbying and horse trading , the process left most Americans wondering , What is in it for me But I also know this problem is not going away . By the time I am finished speaking tonight , more Americans will have lost their health insurance . Millions will lose it this year . Our deficit will grow . Premiums will go up . Patients will be denied the care they need . Small business owners will continue to drop coverage altogether . I will not walk away from these Americans , and neither should the people in this Chamber . So , as temperatures cool , I want everyone to take another look at the plan we have proposed . There is a reason why many doctors , nurses , and health care experts who know our system best consider this approach a vast improvement over the status quo . But if anyone from either party has a better approach that will bring down premiums , bring down the deficit , cover the uninsured , strengthen Medicare for seniors , and stop insurance company abuses , let me know . Let me know . Let me know . I am eager to see it . Here s what I ask Congress , though Do not walk away from reform . Not now . Not when we are so close . Let us find a way to come together and finish the job for the American people . Let us get it done . Let us get it done . Now , even as health care reform would reduce our deficit , it is not enough to dig us out of a massive fiscal hole in which we find ourselves . It is a challenge that makes all others that much harder to solve and one that is been subject to a lot of political posturing . So let me start the discussion of Government spending by setting the record straight . At the beginning of the last decade , the year 2000 , America had a budget surplus of over 200 billion . By the time I took office , we had a 1 year deficit of over 1 trillion and projected deficits of 8 trillion over the next decade . Most of this was the result of not paying for two wars , two tax cuts , and an expensive prescription drug program . On top of that , the effects of the recession put a 3 trillion hole in our budget . All this was before I walked in the door . Now just stating the facts . Now , if we had taken office in ordinary times , I would have liked nothing more than to start bringing down the deficit . But we took office amid a crisis . And our efforts to prevent a second depression have added another 1 trillion to our national debt . That too is a fact . I am absolutely convinced that was the right thing to do . But families across the country are tightening their belts and making tough decisions . The Federal Government should do the same . So tonight I am proposing specific steps to pay for the trillion dollars that it took to rescue the economy last year . Starting in 2011 , we are prepared to freeze Government spending for 3 years . Spending related to our national security , Medicare , Medicaid , and Social Security will not be affected . But all other discretionary Government programs will . Like any cash strapped family , we will work within a budget to invest in what we need and sacrifice what we do not . And if I have to enforce this discipline by veto , I will . We will continue to go through the budget , line by line , page by page , to eliminate programs that we cannot afford and do not work . We have already identified 20 billion in savings for next year . To help working families , we will extend our middle class tax cuts . But at a time of record deficits , we will not continue tax cuts for oil companies , for investment fund managers , and for those making over 250 , 000 a year . We just cannot afford it . Now , even after paying for what we spent on my watch , we will still face the massive deficit we had when I took office . More importantly , the cost of Medicare , Medicaid , and Social Security will continue to skyrocket . That is why I have called for a bipartisan fiscal commission , modeled on a proposal by Republican Judd Gregg and Democrat Kent Conrad . This cannot be one of those Washington gimmicks that lets us pretend we solve a problem . The commission will have to provide a specific set of solutions by a certain deadline . Now , yesterday the Senate blocked a bill that would have created this commission , so I will issue an Executive order that will allow us to go forward , because I refuse to pass this problem on to another generation of Americans . And when the vote comes tomorrow , the Senate should restore the pay as you go law that was a big reason for why we had record surpluses in the 1990s . Now , I know that some in my own party will argue that we cannot address the deficit or freeze Government spending when so many are still hurting . And I agree , which is why this freeze will not take effect until next year , when the economy is stronger . That is how budgeting works . But understand , if we do not take meaningful steps to rein in our debt , it could damage our markets , increase the cost of borrowing , and jeopardize our recovery , all of which would have an even worse effect on our job growth and family incomes . From some on the right , I expect we will hear a different argument , that if we just make fewer investments in our people , extend tax cuts , including those for the wealthier Americans , eliminate more regulations , maintain the status quo on health care , our deficits will go away . The problem is , that is what we did for 8 years . That is what helped us into this crisis . It is what helped lead to these deficits . We cannot do it again . Rather than fight the same tired battles that have dominated Washington for decades , it is time to try something new . Let us invest in our people without leaving them a mountain of debt . Let us meet our responsibility to the citizens who sent us here . Let us try common sense a novel concept . Now , to do that , we have to recognize that we face more than a deficit of dollars right now . We face a deficit of trust , deep and corrosive doubts about how Washington works that have been growing for years . To close that credibility gap , we have to take action on both ends of Pennsylvania Avenue to end the outsized influence of lobbyists , to do our work openly , to give our people the Government they deserve . Now , that is what I came to Washington to do . That is why , for the first time in history , my administration posts on our White House visitors online . That is why we have excluded lobbyists from policymaking jobs or seats on Federal boards and commissions . But we cannot stop there . It is time to require lobbyists to disclose each contact they make on behalf of a client , with my administration or with Congress . It is time to put strict limits on the contributions that lobbyists give to candidates for Federal office . With all due deference to separation of powers , last week , the Supreme Court reversed a century of law that I believe will open the floodgates for special interests , including foreign corporations , to spend without limit in our elections . I do not think American elections should be bankrolled by America s most powerful interests , or worse , by foreign entities . They should be decided by the American people . And I had urge Democrats and Republicans to pass a bill that helps correct some of these problems . I am also calling on Congress to continue down the path of earmark reform , Democrats and Republicans Democrats and Republicans . Look , you have trimmed some of this spending , you have embraced some meaningful change , but restoring the public trust demands more . For example , some Members of Congress post some earmark requests online . Tonight I am calling on Congress to publish all earmark requests on a single web site before there is a vote so that the American people can see how their money is being spent . Of course , none of these reforms will even happen if we do not also reform how we work with one another . Now , I am not naive . I never thought that the mere fact of my election would usher in peace and harmony and some postpartisan era . I knew that both parties have fed divisions that are deeply entrenched . And on some issues , there are simply philosophical differences that will always cause us to part ways . These disagreements , about the role of government in our lives , about our national priorities and our national security , they have been taking place for over 200 years . They are the very essence of our democracy . But what frustrates the American people is a Washington where every day is Election Day . We cannot wage a perpetual campaign where the only goal is to see who can get the most embarrassing headlines about the other side , a belief that if you lose , I win . Neither party should delay or obstruct every single bill just because they can . The confirmation of I am speaking to both parties now . The confirmation of well qualified public servants should not be held hostage to the pet projects or grudges of a few individual Senators . Washington may think that saying anything about the other side , no matter how false , no matter how malicious , is just part of the game . But it is precisely such politics that has stopped either party from helping the American people . Worse yet , it is sowing further division among our citizens , further distrust in our Government . So , no , I will not give up on trying to change the tone of our politics . I know it is an election year . And after last week , it is clear that campaign fever has come even earlier than usual . But we still need to govern . To Democrats , I would remind you that we still have the largest majority in decades and the people expect us to solve problems , not run for the hills . And if the Republican leadership is going to insist that 60 votes in the Senate are required to do any business at all in this town a supermajority then the responsibility to govern is now yours as well . Just saying no to everything may be good short term politics , but it is not leadership . We were sent here to serve our citizens , not our ambitions . So let us show the American people that we can do it together . This week , I will be addressing a meeting of the House Republicans . I had like to begin monthly meetings with both Democratic and Republican leadership . I know you cannot wait . Now , throughout our history , no issue has united this country more than our security . Sadly , some of the unity we felt after 9 11 has dissipated . And we can argue all we want about who is to blame for this , but I am not interested in relitigating the past . I know that all of us love this country . All of us are committed to its defense . So let us put aside the schoolyard taunts about who is tough . Let us reject the false choice between protecting our people and upholding our values . Let us leave behind the fear and division and do what it takes to defend our Nation and forge a more hopeful future for America and for the world . That is the work we began last year . Since the day I took office , we have renewed our focus on the terrorists who threaten our Nation . We have made substantial investments in our homeland security and disrupted plots that threatened to take American lives . We are filling unacceptable gaps revealed by the failed Christmas attack , with better airline security and swifter action on our intelligence . We have prohibited torture and strengthened partnerships from the Pacific to South Asia to the Arabian Peninsula . And in the last year , hundreds of Al Qaida s fighters and affiliates , including many senior leaders , have been captured or killed , far more than in 2008 . And in Afghanistan , we are increasing our troops and training Afghan security forces so they can begin to take the lead in July of 2011 and our troops can begin to come home . We will reward good governance , work to reduce corruption , and support the rights of all Afghans , men and women alike . We are joined by allies and partners who have increased their own commitments and who will come together tomorrow in London to reaffirm our common purpose . There will be difficult days ahead , but I am absolutely confident we will succeed . As we take the fight to Al Qaida , we are responsibly leaving Iraq to its people . As a candidate , I promised that I would end this war , and that is what I am doing as President . We will have all of our combat troops out of Iraq by the end of this August . We will support the Iraqi Government as they hold elections , and we will continue to partner with the Iraqi people to promote regional peace and prosperity . But make no mistake This war is ending , and all of our troops are coming home . Tonight all of our men and women in uniform , in Iraq , in Afghanistan , and around the world , they have to know that we that they have our respect , our gratitude , our full support . And just as they must have the resources they need in war , we all have a responsibility to support them when they come home . That is why we made the largest increase in investments for veterans in decades last year . That is why we are building a 21st century VAnd that is why Michelle has joined with Jill Biden to forge a national commitment to support military families . Now , even as we prosecute two wars , we are also confronting perhaps the greatest danger to the American people , the threat of nuclear weapons . I have embraced the vision of John Kennedy and Ronald Reagan through a strategy that reverses the spread of these weapons and seeks a world without them . To reduce our stockpiles and launchers , while ensuring our deterrent , the United States and Russia are completing negotiations on the farthest reaching arms control treaty in nearly two decades . And at April s Nuclear Security Summit , we will bring 44 nations together here in Washington , Dbehind a clear goal securing all vulnerable nuclear materials around the world in 4 years so that they never fall into the hands of terrorists . Now , these diplomatic efforts have also strengthened our hand in dealing with those nations that insist on violating international agreements in pursuit of nuclear weapons . That is why North Korea now faces increased isolation and stronger sanctions , sanctions that are being vigorously enforced . That is why the international community is more united and the Islamic Republic of Iran is more isolated . And as Iran s leaders continue to ignore their obligations , there should be no doubt They too will face growing consequences . That is a promise . That is the leadership we are providing engagement that advances the common security and prosperity of all people . We are working through the G 20 to sustain a lasting global recovery . We are working with Muslim communities around the world to promote science and education and innovation . We have gone from a bystander to a leader in the fight against climate change . We are helping developing countries to feed themselves and continuing the fight against HIV AIDAnd we are launching a new initiative that will give us the capacity to respond faster and more effectively to bioterrorism or an infectious disease , a plan that will counter threats at home and strengthen public health abroad . As we have for over 60 years , America takes these actions because our destiny is connected to those beyond our shores . But we also do it because it is right . That is why , as we meet here tonight , over 10 , 000 Americans are working with many nations to help the people of Haiti recover and rebuild . That is why we stand with the girl who yearns to go to school in Afghanistan , why we support the human rights of the women marching through the streets of Iran , why we advocate for the young man denied a job by corruption in Guinea . For America must always stand on the side of freedom and human dignity always . Abroad , America s greatest source of strength has always been our ideals . The same is true at home . We find unity in our incredible diversity , drawing on the promise enshrined in our Constitution The notion that we are all created equal that no matter who you are or what you look like , if you abide by the law , you should be protected by it if you adhere to our common values , you should be treated no different than anyone else . We must continually renew this promise . My administration has a Civil Rights Division that is once again prosecuting civil rights violations and employment discrimination . We finally strengthened our laws to protect against crimes driven by hate . This year , I will work with Congress and our military to finally repeal the law that denies gay Americans the right to serve the country they love because of who they are . It is the right thing to do . We are going to crackdown on violations of equal pay laws so that women get equal pay for an equal day s work . And we should continue the work of fixing our broken immigration system , to secure our borders and enforce our laws and ensure that everyone who plays by the rules can contribute to our economy and enrich our Nation . In the end , it is our ideals , our values that built America , values that allowed us to forge a nation made up of immigrants from every corner of the globe , values that drive our citizens still . Every day , Americans meet their responsibilities to their families and their employers . Time and again , they lend a hand to their neighbors and give back to their country . They take pride in their labor and are generous in spirit . These are not Republican values or Democratic values that they are living by , business values or labor values , they are American values . Unfortunately , too many of our citizens have lost faith that our biggest institutions our corporations , our media , and , yes , our Government still reflect these same values . Each of these institutions are full of honorable men and women doing important work that helps our country prosper . But each time a CEO rewards himself for failure or a banker puts the rest of us at risk for his own selfish gain , people s doubts grow . Each time lobbyists game the system or politicians tear each other down instead of lifting this country up , we lose faith . The more that TV pundits reduce serious debates to silly arguments , big issues into sound bites , our citizens turn away . No wonder there is so much cynicism out there . No wonder there is so much disappointment . I campaigned on the promise of change . Change we can believe in , the slogan went . And right now I know there are many Americans who are not sure if they still believe we can change or that I can deliver it . But remember this I never suggested that change would be easy or that I could do it alone . Democracy in a nation of 300 million people can be noisy and messy and complicated . And when you try to do big things and make big changes , it stirs passions and controversy . That is just how it is . Those of us in public office can respond to this reality by playing it safe and avoid telling hard truths and pointing fingers . We can do what is necessary to keep our poll numbers high and get through the next election , instead of doing what is best for the next generation . But I also know this If people had made that decision 50 years ago or 100 years ago or 200 years ago , we would not be here tonight . The only reason we are here is because generations of Americans were unafraid to do what was hard , to do what was needed even when success was uncertain , to do what it took to keep the dream of this Nation alive for their children and their grandchildren . Now , our administration has had some political setbacks this year , and some of them were deserved . But I wake up every day knowing that they are nothing compared to the setbacks that families all across this country have faced this year . And what keeps me going , what keeps me fighting , is that despite all these setbacks , that spirit of determination and optimism , that fundamental decency that has always been at the core of the American people , that lives on . It lives on in the struggling small business owner who wrote to me of his company , None of us , he said , . . . are willing to consider , even slightly , that we might fail . It lives on in the woman who said that even though she and her neighbors have felt the pain of recession , We are strong . We are resilient . We are American . It lives on in the 8 year old boy in Louisiana who just sent me his allowance and asked if I would give it to the people of Haiti . And it lives on in all the Americans who have dropped everything to go someplace they have never been and pull people they have never known from the rubble , prompting chants of S . A . S . A . S . A when another life was saved . The spirit that has sustained this Nation for more than two centuries lives on in you , its people . We have finished a difficult year . We have come through a difficult decade . But a new year has come . A new decade stretches before us . We do not quit . I do not quit . Let us seize this moment to start anew , to carry the dream forward , and to strengthen our Union once more . Thank you . God bless you . And God bless the United States of America .<speech_sep>Thank you . Thank you so much . Well , it is a great honor to be with you here in Jerusalem , and I am so grateful for the welcome that I have received from the people of Israel . Thank you . I bring with me the support of the American people and the friendship that binds us together . Over the last two days , I have reaffirmed the bonds between our countries with Prime Minister Netanyahu and President Peres . I have borne witness to the ancient history of the Jewish people at the Shrine of the Book , and I have seen Israel s shining future in your scientists and your entrepreneurs . This is a nation of museums and patents , timeless holy sites and ground breaking innovation . Only in Israel could you see the Dead Sea Scrolls and the place where the technology on board the Mars Rover originated at the same time . But what I have most looked forward to is the ability to speak directly to you , the Israeli people especially so many young people who are here today to talk about the history that brought us here today , and the future that you will make in the years to come . Now , I know that in Israel s vibrant democracy , every word , every gesture is carefully scrutinized . But I want to clear something up just so you know any drama between me and my friend , Bibi , over the years was just a plot to create material for Eretz Nehederet . That is the only thing that was going on . We just wanted to make sure the writers had good material . I also know that I come to Israel on the eve of a sacred holiday the celebration of Passover . And that is where I would like to begin today . Just a few days from now , Jews here in Israel and around the world will sit with family and friends at the Seder table , and celebrate with songs , wine and symbolic foods . After enjoying Seders with family and friends in Chicago and on the campaign trail , I am proud that I have now brought this tradition into the White House . I did so because I wanted my daughters to experience the Haggadah , and the story at the center of Passover that makes this time of year so powerful . It is a story of centuries of slavery , and years of wandering in the desert a story of perseverance amidst persecution , and faith in God and the Torah . It is a story about finding freedom in your own land . And for the Jewish people , this story is central to who you have become . But it is also a story that holds within it the universal human experience , with all of its suffering , but also all of its salvation . It is a part of the three great religions Judaism , Christianity , and Islam that trace their origins to Abraham , and see Jerusalem as sacred . And it is a story that is inspired communities across the globe , including me and my fellow Americans . In the United States a nation made up of people who crossed oceans to start anew we are naturally drawn to the idea of finding freedom in our land . To African Americans , the story of the Exodus was perhaps the central story , the most powerful image about emerging from the grip of bondage to reach for liberty and human dignity a tale that was carried from slavery through the Civil Rights Movement into today . For generations , this promise helped people weather poverty and persecution , while holding on to the hope that a better day was on the horizon . For me , personally , growing up in far flung parts of the world and without firm roots , the story spoke to a yearning within every human being for a home . Of course , even as we draw strength from the story of God s will and His gift of freedom expressed on Passover , we also know that here on Earth we must bear our responsibilities in an imperfect world . That means accepting our measure of sacrifice and struggle , just like previous generations . It means us working through generation after generation on behalf of that ideal of freedom . As Martin Luther King said on the day before he was killed , I may not get there with you . But I want you to know that we , as a people , will get to the promised land . So just as Joshua carried on after Moses , the work goes on for all of you , the Joshua Generation , for justice and dignity for opportunity and freedom . For the Jewish people , the journey to the promise of the State of Israel wound through countless generations . It involved centuries of suffering and exile , prejudice and pogroms and even genocide . Through it all , the Jewish people sustained their unique identity and traditions , as well as a longing to return home . And while Jews achieved extraordinary success in many parts of the world , the dream of true freedom finally found its full expression in the Zionist idea to be a free people in your homeland . That is why I believe that Israel is rooted not just in history and tradition , but also in a simple and profound idea the idea that people deserve to be free in a land of their own . Over the last 65 years , when Israel has been at its best , Israelis have demonstrated that responsibility does not end when you reach the promised land , it only begins . And so Israel has been a refuge for the diaspora welcoming Jews from Europe , from the former Soviet Union , from Ethiopia , from North Africa . Israel has built a prosperous nation through kibbutzeem that made the desert bloom , business that broadened the middle class , innovators who reached new frontiers , from the smallest microchip to the orbits of space . Israel has established a thriving democracy , with a spirited civil society and proud political parties , and a tireless free press , and a lively public debate lively may even be an understatement . And Israel has achieved all this even as it is overcome relentless threats to its security through the courage of the Israel Defense Forces , and the citizenry that is so resilient in the face of terror . This is the story of Israel . This is the work that has brought the dreams of so many generations to life . And every step of the way , Israel has built unbreakable bonds of friendship with my country , the United States of America . Those ties began only 11 minutes after Israeli independence , when the United States was the first nation to recognize the State of Israel . As President Truman said in explaining his decision to recognize Israel , he said , I believe it has a glorious future before it not just as another sovereign nation , but as an embodiment of the great ideals of our civilization . And since then , we have built a friendship that advances our shared interests . Together , we share a commitment to security for our citizens and the stability of the Middle East and North Africa . Together , we share a focus on advancing economic growth around the globe , and strengthening the middle class within our own countries . Together , we share a stake in the success of democracy . But the source of our friendship extends beyond mere interests , just as it has transcended political parties and individual leaders . America is a nation of immigrants . America is strengthened by diversity . America is enriched by faith . We are governed not simply by men and women , but by laws . We are fueled by entrepreneurship and innovation , and we are defined by a democratic discourse that allows each generation to reimagine and renew our union once more . So in Israel , we see values that we share , even as we recognize what makes us different . That is an essential part of our bond . Now , I stand here today mindful that for both our nations , these are some complicated times . We have difficult issues to work through within our own countries , and we face dangers and upheaval around the world . And when I look at young people within the United States , I think about the choices that they must make in their lives to define who we will be as a nation in this 21st century , particularly as we emerge from two wars and the worst recession since the Great Depression . But part of the reason I like talking to young people is because no matter how great the challenges are , their idealism , their energy , their ambition always gives me hope . And I see the same spirit in the young people here today . I believe that you will shape our future . And given the ties between our countries , I believe your future is bound to ours . No , no this is part of the lively debate that we talked about . This is good . You know , I have to say we actually arranged for that , because it made me feel at home . I would not feel comfortable if I did not have at least one heckler . I had like to focus on how we and when I say we , in particular young people can work together to make progress in three areas that will define our times security , peace and prosperity . Let me begin with security . I am proud that the security relationship between the United States and Israel has never been stronger . Never . More exercises between our militaries more exchanges among our political and military and intelligence officials than ever before the largest program to date to help you retain your qualitative military edge . These are the facts . These are not my opinions , these are facts . But , to me , this is not simply measured on a balance sheet . I know that here , in Israel , security is something personal . Here s what I think about when I consider these issues . When I consider Israel s security , I think about children like Osher Twito , who I met in Sderot children the same age as my own daughters who went to bed at night fearful that a rocket would land in their bedroom simply because of who they are and where they live . That reality is why we have invested in the Iron Dome system to save countless lives because those children deserve to sleep better at night . That is why we have made it clear , time and again , that Israel cannot accept rocket attacks from Gaza , and we have stood up for Israel s right to defend itself . And that is why Israel has a right to expect Hamas to renounce violence and recognize Israel s right to exist . When I think about Israel s security , I think about five Israelis who boarded a bus in Bulgaria , who were blown up because of where they came from robbed of the ability to live , and love , and raise families . That is why every country that values justice should call Hizbollah what it truly is a terrorist organization . Because the world cannot tolerate an organization that murders innocent civilians , stockpiles rockets to shoot at cities , and supports the massacre of men and women and children in Syria right now . The fact that Hizbollah s ally the Assad regime has stockpiles of chemical weapons only heightens the urgency . We will continue to cooperate closely to guard against that danger . I have made it clear to Bashar al Assad and all who follow his orders We will not tolerate the use of chemical weapons against the Syrian people , or the transfer of those weapons to terrorists . The world is watching we will hold you accountable . The Syrian people have the right to be freed from the grip of a dictator who would rather kill his own people than relinquish power . Assad must go so that Syria s future can begin . Because true stability in Syria depends upon establishing a government that is responsible to its people one that protects all communities within its borders , while making peace with countries beyond them . These are the things I think about when I think about Israel s security . When I consider Israel s security , I also think about a people who have a living memory of the Holocaust , faced with the prospect of a nuclear armed Iranian government that has called for Israel s destruction . It is no wonder Israelis view this as an existential threat . But this is not simply a challenge for Israel it is a danger for the entire world , including the United States . A nuclear armed Iran would raise the risk of nuclear terrorism . It would undermine the non proliferation regime . It would spark an arms race in a volatile region . And it would embolden a government that has shown no respect for the rights of its own people or the responsibilities of nations . That is why America has built a coalition to increase the cost to Iran of failing to meet their obligations . The Iranian government is now under more pressure than ever before , and that pressure is increasing . It is isolated . Its economy is in dire straits . Its leadership is divided . And its position in the region , and the world has only grown weaker . I do believe that all of us have an interest in resolving this issue peacefully . Strong and principled diplomacy is the best way to ensure that the Iranian government forsakes nuclear weapons . Peace is far more preferable to war . And the inevitable costs , the unintended consequences that would come with war means that we have to do everything we can to try to resolve this diplomatically . Because of the cooperation between our governments , we know that there remains time to pursue a diplomatic resolution . That is what America will do , with clear eyes working with a world that is united , and with the sense of urgency that is required . But Iran must know this time is not unlimited . And I have made the position of the United States of America clear Iran must not get a nuclear weapon . This is not a danger that can be contained , and as President , I have said all options are on the table for achieving our objectives . America will do what we must to prevent a nuclear armed Iran . For young Israelis , I know that these issues of security are rooted in an experience that is even more fundamental than the pressing threat of the day . You live in a neighborhood where many of your neighbors have rejected the right of your nation to exist . Your grandparents had to risk their lives and all that they had to make a place for themselves in this world . Your parents lived through war after war to ensure the survival of the Jewish state . Your children grow up knowing that people they have never met may hate them because of who they are , in a region that is full of turmoil and changing underneath your feet . So that is what I think about when Israel is faced with these challenges that sense of an Israel that is surrounded by many in this region who still reject it , and many in the world who refuse to accept it . And that is why the security of the Jewish people in Israel is so important . It cannot be taken for granted . But make no mistake those who adhere to the ideology of rejecting Israel s right to exist , they might as well reject the earth beneath them or the sky above , because Israel is not going anywhere . And today , I want to tell you particularly the young people so that there is no mistake here , so long as there is a United States of America Atem lo levad . You are not alone . The question is what kind of future Israel will look forward to . Israel is not going anywhere but especially for the young people in this audience , the question is what does its future hold And that brings me to the subject of peace . I know Israel has taken risks for peace . Brave leaders Menachem Begin , Yitzhak Rabin reached treaties with two of your neighbors . You made credible proposals to the Palestinians at Annapolis . You withdrew from Gaza and Lebanon , and then faced terror and rockets . Across the region , you have extended a hand of friendship and all too often you have been confronted with rejection and , in some cases , the ugly reality of anti Semitism . So I believe that the Israeli people do want peace , and I also understand why too many Israelis maybe an increasing number , maybe a lot of young people here today are skeptical that it can be achieved . But today , Israel is at a crossroads . It can be tempting to put aside the frustrations and sacrifices that come with the pursuit of peace , particularly when Iron Dome repels rockets , barriers keep out suicide bombers . There is so many other pressing issues that demand your attention . And I know that only Israelis can make the fundamental decisions about your country s future . I recognize that . I also know , by the way , that not everyone in this hall will agree with what I have to say about peace . I recognize that there are those who are not simply skeptical about peace , but question its underlying premise , have a different vision for Israel s future . And that is part of a democracy . That is part of the discourse between our two countries . I recognize that . But I also believe it is important to be open and honest , especially with your friends . I also believe that . Politically , given the strong bipartisan support for Israel in America , the easiest thing for me to do would be to put this issue aside just express unconditional support for whatever Israel decides to do that would be the easiest political path . But I want you to know that I speak to you as a friend who is deeply concerned and committed to your future , and I ask you to consider three points . First , peace is necessary . I believe that . I believe that peace is the only path to true security . You have the opportunity to be the generation that permanently secures the Zionist dream , or you can face a growing challenge to its future . Given the demographics west of the Jordan River , the only way for Israel to endure and thrive as a Jewish and democratic state is through the realization of an independent and viable Palestine . That is true . There are other factors involved . Given the frustration in the international community about this conflict , Israel needs to reverse an undertow of isolation . And given the march of technology , the only way to truly protect the Israeli people over the long term is through the absence of war . Because no wall is high enough and no Iron Dome is strong enough or perfect enough to stop every enemy that is intent on doing so from inflicting harm . And this truth is more pronounced given the changes sweeping the Arab world . I understand that with the uncertainty in the region people in the streets , changes in leadership , the rise of non secular parties in politics it is tempting to turn inward , because the situation outside of Israel seems so chaotic . But this is precisely the time to respond to the wave of revolution with a resolve and commitment for peace . Because as more governments respond to popular will , the days when Israel could seek peace simply with a handful of autocratic leaders , those days are over . Peace will have to be made among peoples , not just governments . No one no single step can change overnight what lies in the hearts and minds of millions . No single step is going to erase years of history and propaganda . But progress with the Palestinians is a powerful way to begin , while sidelining extremists who thrive on conflict and thrive on division . It would make a difference . So peace is necessary . But peace is also just . Peace is also just . There is no question that Israel has faced Palestinian factions who turned to terror , leaders who missed historic opportunities . That is all true . And that is why security must be at the center of any agreement . And there is no question that the only path to peace is through negotiations which is why , despite the criticism we have received , the United States will oppose unilateral efforts to bypass negotiations through the United Nations . It has to be done by the parties . But the Palestinian people s right to self determination , their right to justice , must also be recognized . Put yourself in their shoes . Look at the world through their eyes . It is not fair that a Palestinian child cannot grow up in a state of their own . Living their entire lives with the presence of a foreign army that controls the movements not just of those young people but their parents , their grandparents , every single day . It is not just when settler violence against Palestinians goes unpunished . It is not right to prevent Palestinians from farming their lands or restricting a student s ability to move around the West Bank or displace Palestinian families from their homes . Neither occupation nor expulsion is the answer . Just as Israelis built a state in their homeland , Palestinians have a right to be a free people in their own land . I am going off script here for a second , but before I came here , I met with a group of young Palestinians from the age of 15 to 22 . And talking to them , they were not that different from my daughters . They were not that different from your daughters or sons . I honestly believe that if any Israeli parent sat down with those kids , they had say , I want these kids to succeed I want them to prosper . I want them to have opportunities just like my kids do . I believe that is what Israeli parents would want for these kids if they had a chance to listen to them and talk to them . I believe that . Now , only you can determine what kind of democracy you will have . But remember that as you make these decisions , you will define not simply the future of your relationship with the Palestinians you will define the future of Israel as well . As Ariel Sharon said I am quoting him It is impossible to have a Jewish democratic state , at the same time to control all of Eretz Israel . If we insist on fulfilling the dream in its entirety , we are liable to lose it all . Or , from a different perspective , I think of what the novelist David Grossman said shortly after losing his son , as he described the necessity of peace A peace of no choice he said , must be approached with the same determination and creativity as one approaches a war of no choice . Now , Israel cannot be expected to negotiate with anyone who is dedicated to its destruction . But while I know you have had differences with the Palestinian Authority , I genuinely believe that you do have a true partner in President Abbas and Prime Minister Fayyad . I believe that . And they have a track record to prove it . Over the last few years , they have built institutions and maintained security on the West Bank in ways that few could have imagined just a few years ago . So many Palestinians including young people have rejected violence as a means of achieving their aspirations . There is an opportunity there , there is a window which brings me to my third point Peace is possible . It is possible . I am not saying it is guaranteed . I cannot even say that it is more likely than not . But it is possible . I know it does not seem that way . There are always going to be reasons to avoid risk . There are costs for failure . There will always be extremists who provide an excuse not to act . I know there must be something exhausting about endless talks about talks , and daily controversies , and just the grinding status quo . And I am sure there is a temptation just to say , Ah , enough . Let me focus on my small corner of the world and my family and my job and what I can control . But it is possible . Negotiations will be necessary , but there is little secret about where they must lead two states for two peoples . Two states for two peoples . There will be differences about how to get there . There are going to be hard choices along the way . Arab states must adapt to a world that has changed . The days when they could condemn Israel to distract their people from a lack of opportunity , or government corruption or mismanagement those days need to be over . Now is the time for the Arab world to take steps toward normalizing relations with Israel . Meanwhile , Palestinians must recognize that Israel will be a Jewish state and that Israelis have the right to insist upon their security . Israelis must recognize that continued settlement activity is counterproductive to the cause of peace , and that an independent Palestine must be viable with real borders that have to be drawn . I have suggested principles on territory and security that I believe can be the basis for these talks . But for the moment , put aside the plans and the process . I ask you , instead , to think about what can be done to build trust between people . Four years ago , I stood in Cairo in front of an audience of young people politically , religiously , they must seem a world away . But the things they want , they are not so different from what the young people here want . They want the ability to make their own decisions and to get an education , get a good job to worship God in their own way to get married to raise a family . The same is true of those young Palestinians that I met with this morning . The same is true for young Palestinians who yearn for a better life in Gaza . That is where peace begins not just in the plans of leaders , but in the hearts of people . Not just in some carefully designed process , but in the daily connections that sense of empathy that takes place among those who live together in this land and in this sacred city of Jerusalem . And let me say this as a politician I can promise you this , political leaders will never take risks if the people do not push them to take some risks . You must create the change that you want to see . Ordinary people can accomplish extraordinary things . I know this is possible . Look to the bridges being built in business and civil society by some of you here today . Look at the young people who have not yet learned a reason to mistrust , or those young people who have learned to overcome a legacy of mistrust that they inherited from their parents , because they simply recognize that we hold more hopes in common than fears that drive us apart . Your voices must be louder than those who would drown out hope . Your hopes must light the way forward . Look to a future in which Jews and Muslims and Christians can all live in peace and greater prosperity in this Holy Land . Believe in that . And most of all , look to the future that you want for your own children a future in which a Jewish , democratic , vibrant state is protected and accepted for this time and for all time . There will be many who say this change is not possible , but remember this Israel is the most powerful country in this region . Israel has the unshakeable support of the most powerful country in the world . Israel is not going anywhere . Israel has the wisdom to see the world as it is , but this is in your nature Israel also has the courage to see the world as it should be . Ben Gurion once said , In Israel , in order to be a realist you must believe in miracles . Sometimes , the greatest miracle is recognizing that the world can change . That is a lesson that the world has learned from the Jewish people . And that brings me to the final area that I will focus on prosperity , and Israel s broader role in the world . I know that all the talk about security and peace can sometimes seem to dominate the headlines , but that is not where people live . And every day , even amidst the threats that you face , Israelis are defining themselves by the opportunities that you are creating . Through talent and hard work , Israelis have put this small country at the forefront of the global economy . Israelis understand the value of education and have produced 10 Nobel laureates . Israelis understand the power of invention , and your universities educate engineers and inventors . And that spirit has led to economic growth and human progress solar power and electric cars , bandages and prosthetic limbs that save lives , stem cell research and new drugs that treat disease , cell phones and computer technology that changed the way people around the world live . So if people want to see the future of the world economy , they should look at Tel Aviv , home to hundreds of start ups and research centers . Israelis are so active on social media that every day seemed to bring a different Facebook campaign about where I should give this speech . That innovation is just as important to the relationship between the United States and Israel as our security cooperation . Our first free trade agreement in the world was reached with Israel , nearly three decades ago . Today the trade between our two countries is at 40 billion every year . More importantly , that partnership is creating new products and medical treatments it is pushing new frontiers of science and exploration . That is the kind of relationship that Israel should have and could have with every country in the world . Already , we see how that innovation could reshape this region . There is a program here in Jerusalem that brings together young Israelis and Palestinians to learn vital skills in technology and business . An Israeli and Palestinian have started a venture capital fund to finance Palestinian start ups . Over 100 high tech companies have found a home on the West Bank which speaks to the talent and entrepreneurial spirit of the Palestinian people . One of the great ironies of what is happening in the broader region is that so much of what people are yearning for education , entrepreneurship , the ability to start a business without paying a bribe , the ability to connect to the global economy those are things that can be found here in Israel . This should be a hub for thriving regional trade , and an engine for opportunity . Israel is already a center for innovation that helps power the global economy . And I believe that all of that potential for prosperity can be enhanced with greater security , enhanced with lasting peace . Here , in this small strip of land that has been the center of so much of the world s history , so much triumph and so much tragedy , Israelis have built something that few could have imagined 65 years ago . Tomorrow , I will pay tribute to that history at the grave of Herzl , a man who had the foresight to see the future of the Jewish people had to be reconnected to their past at the grave of Rabin , who understood that Israel s victories in war had to be followed by the battles for peace at Yad Vashem , where the world is reminded of the cloud of evil that can descend on the Jewish people and all of humanity if we ever fail to be vigilant . We bear all that history on our shoulders . We carry all that history in our hearts . Today , as we face the twilight of Israel s founding generation , you the young people of Israel must now claim its future . It falls to you to write the next chapter in the great story of this great nation . And as the President of a country that you can count on as your greatest friend I am confident that you can help us find the promise in the days that lie ahead . And as a man who is been inspired in my own life by that timeless calling within the Jewish experience tikkun olam I am hopeful that we can draw upon what is best in ourselves to meet the challenges that will come to win the battles for peace in the wake of so much war and to do the work of repairing this world . That is your job . That is my job . That is the task of all of us . May God bless you . May God bless Israel . May God bless the United States of America . Toda raba . Thank you .<speech_sep>Speaker , Vice President , Members of Congress , my fellow Americans We are 15 years into this new century . Fifteen years that dawned with terror touching our shores that unfolded with a new generation fighting two long and costly wars that saw a vicious recession spread across our nation and the world . It has been , and still is , a hard time for many . But tonight , we turn the page . Tonight , after a breakthrough year for America , our economy is growing and creating jobs at the fastest pace since 1999 . Our unemployment rate is now lower than it was before the financial crisis . More of our kids are graduating than ever before . More of our people are insured than ever before . And we are as free from the grip of foreign oil as we have been in almost 30 years . Tonight , for the first time since 9 11 , our combat mission in Afghanistan is over . Six years ago , nearly 180 , 000 American troops served in Iraq and Afghanistan . Today , fewer than 15 , 000 remain . And we salute the courage and sacrifice of every man and woman in this 9 11 Generation who has served to keep us safe . We are humbled and grateful for your service . America , for all that we have endured for all the grit and hard work required to come back for all the tasks that lie ahead , know this The shadow of crisis has passed , and the State of the Union is strong . At this moment with a growing economy , shrinking deficits , bustling industry , booming energy production we have risen from recession freer to write our own future than any other nation on Earth . It is now up to us to choose who we want to be over the next 15 years and for decades to come . Will we accept an economy where only a few of us do spectacularly well Or will we commit ourselves to an economy that generates rising incomes and chances for everyone who makes the effort Will we approach the world fearful and reactive , dragged into costly conflicts that strain our military and set back our standing Or will we lead wisely , using all elements of our power to defeat new threats and protect our planet Will we allow ourselves to be sorted into factions and turned against one another Or will we recapture the sense of common purpose that has always propelled America forward In two weeks , I will send this Congress a budget filled with ideas that are practical , not partisan . And in the months ahead , I will crisscross the country making a case for those ideas . So tonight , I want to focus less on a checklist of proposals , and focus more on the values at stake in the choices before us . It begins with our economy . Seven years ago , Rebekah and Ben Erler of Minneapolis were newlyweds . She waited tables . He worked construction . Their first child , Jack , was on the way . They were young and in love in America . And it does not get much better than that . If only we had known , Rebekah wrote to me last spring , what was about to happen to the housing and construction market . As the crisis worsened , Ben s business dried up , so he took what jobs he could find , even if they kept him on the road for long stretches of time . Rebekah took out student loans and enrolled in community college , and retrained for a new career . They sacrificed for each other . And slowly , it paid off . They bought their first home . They had a second son , Henry . Rebekah got a better job and then a raise . Ben is back in construction and home for dinner every night . It is amazing , Rebekah wrote , what you can bounce back from when you have to . . . we are a strong , tight knit family who has made it through some very , very hard times . We are a strong , tight knit family who has made it through some very , very hard times . America , Rebekah and Ben s story is our story . They represent the millions who have worked hard and scrimped , and sacrificed and retooled . You are the reason that I ran for this office . You are the people I was thinking of six years ago today , in the darkest months of the crisis , when I stood on the steps of this Capitol and promised we would rebuild our economy on a new foundation . And it has been your resilience , your effort that has made it possible for our country to emerge stronger . We believed we could reverse the tide of outsourcing and draw new jobs to our shores . And over the past five years , our businesses have created more than 11 million new jobs . We believed we could reduce our dependence on foreign oil and protect our planet . And today , America is number one in oil and gas . America is number one in wind power . Every three weeks , we bring online as much solar power as we did in all of 2008 . And thanks to lower gas prices and higher fuel standards , the typical family this year should save about 750 at the pump . We believed we could prepare our kids for a more competitive world . And today , our younger students have earned the highest math and reading scores on record . Our high school graduation rate has hit an all time high . More Americans finish college than ever before . We believed that sensible regulations could prevent another crisis , shield families from ruin , and encourage fair competition . Today , we have new tools to stop taxpayer funded bailouts , and a new consumer watchdog to protect us from predatory lending and abusive credit card practices . And in the past year alone , about 10 million uninsured Americans finally gained the security of health coverage . At every step , we were told our goals were misguided or too ambitious that we would crush jobs and explode deficits . Instead , we have seen the fastest economic growth in over a decade , our deficits cut by two thirds , a stock market that has doubled , and health care inflation at its lowest rate in 50 years . This is good news , people . So the verdict is clear . Middle class economics works . Expanding opportunity works . And these policies will continue to work as long as politics do not get in the way . We cannot slow down businesses or put our economy at risk with government shutdowns or fiscal showdowns . We cannot put the security of families at risk by taking away their health insurance , or unraveling the new rules on Wall Street , or refighting past battles on immigration when we have got to fix a broken system . And if a bill comes to my desk that tries to do any of these things , I will veto it . It will have earned my veto . Today , thanks to a growing economy , the recovery is touching more and more lives . Wages are finally starting to rise again . We know that more small business owners plan to raise their employees pay than at any time since 2007 . But here s the thing Those of us here tonight , we need to set our sights higher than just making sure government does not screw things up that government does not halt the progress we are making . We need to do more than just do no harm . Tonight , together , let us do more to restore the link between hard work and growing opportunity for every American . Because families like Rebekah s still need our help . She and Ben are working as hard as ever , but they have had to forego vacations and a new car so that they can pay off student loans and save for retirement . Friday night pizza , that is a big splurge . Basic childcare for Jack and Henry costs more than their mortgage , and almost as much as a year at the University of Minnesota . Like millions of hardworking Americans , Rebekah is not asking for a handout , but she is asking that we look for more ways to help families get ahead . And in fact , at every moment of economic change throughout our history , this country has taken bold action to adapt to new circumstances and to make sure everyone gets a fair shot . We set up worker protections , Social Security , Medicare , Medicaid to protect ourselves from the harshest adversity . We gave our citizens schools and colleges , infrastructure and the Internet tools they needed to go as far as their effort and their dreams will take them . That is what middle class economics is the idea that this country does best when everyone gets their fair shot , everyone does their fair share , everyone plays by the same set of rules . We do not just want everyone to share in America s success , we want everyone to contribute to our success . So what does middle class economics require in our time First , middle class economics means helping working families feel more secure in a world of constant change . That means helping folks afford childcare , college , health care , a home , retirement . And my budget will address each of these issues , lowering the taxes of working families and putting thousands of dollars back into their pockets each year . Here s one example . During World War Iwhen men like my grandfather went off to war , having women like my grandmother in the workforce was a national security priority so this country provided universal childcare . In today s economy , when having both parents in the workforce is an economic necessity for many families , we need affordable , high quality childcare more than ever . It is not a nice to have it is a must have . So it is time we stop treating childcare as a side issue , or as a women s issue , and treat it like the national economic priority that it is for all of us . And that is why my plan will make quality childcare more available and more affordable for every middle class and low income family with young children in America by creating more slots and a new tax cut of up to 3 , 000 per child , per year . Here s another example . Today , we are the only advanced country on Earth that does not guarantee paid sick leave or paid maternity leave to our workers . Forty three million workers have no paid sick leave 43 million . Think about that . And that forces too many parents to make the gut wrenching choice between a paycheck and a sick kid at home . So I will be taking new action to help states adopt paid leave laws of their own . And since paid sick leave won where it was on the ballot last November , let us put it to a vote right here in Washington . Send me a bill that gives every worker in America the opportunity to earn seven days of paid sick leave . It is the right thing to do . It is the right thing to do . Of course , nothing helps families make ends meet like higher wages . That is why this Congress still needs to pass a law that makes sure a woman is paid the same as a man for doing the same work . It is 2015 . It is time . We still need to make sure employees get the overtime they have earned . And to everyone in this Congress who still refuses to raise the minimum wage , I say this If you truly believe you could work full time and support a family on less than 15 , 000 a year , try it . If not , vote to give millions of the hardest working people in America a raise . Now , these ideas will not make everybody rich , will not relieve every hardship . That is not the job of government . To give working families a fair shot , we still need more employers to see beyond next quarter s earnings and recognize that investing in their workforce is in their company s long term interest . We still need laws that strengthen rather than weaken unions , and give American workers a voice . But you know , things like childcare and sick leave and equal pay things like lower mortgage premiums and a higher minimum wage these ideas will make a meaningful difference in the lives of millions of families . That is a fact . And that is what all of us , Republicans and Democrats alike , were sent here to do . Second , to make sure folks keep earning higher wages down the road , we have to do more to help Americans upgrade their skills . America thrived in the 20th century because we made high school free , sent a generation of GIs to college , trained the best workforce in the world . We were ahead of the curve . But other countries caught on . And in a 21st century economy that rewards knowledge like never before , we need to up our game . We need to do more . By the end of this decade , two in three job openings will require some higher education two in three . And yet , we still live in a country where too many bright , striving Americans are priced out of the education they need . It is not fair to them , and it is sure not smart for our future . That is why I am sending this Congress a bold new plan to lower the cost of community college to zero . Keep in mind 40 percent of our college students choose community college . Some are young and starting out . Some are older and looking for a better job . Some are veterans and single parents trying to transition back into the job market . Whoever you are , this plan is your chance to graduate ready for the new economy without a load of debt . Understand , you have got to earn it . You have got to keep your grades up and graduate on time . Tennessee , a state with Republican leadership , and Chicago , a city with Democratic leadership , are showing that free community college is possible . I want to spread that idea all across America , so that two years of college becomes as free and universal in America as high school is today . Let us stay ahead of the curve . And I want to work with this Congress to make sure those already burdened with student loans can reduce their monthly payments so that student debt does not derail anyone s dreams . Thanks to Vice President Biden s great work to update our job training system , we are connecting community colleges with local employers to train workers to fill high paying jobs like coding , and nursing , and robotics . Tonight , I am also asking more businesses to follow the lead of companies like CVS and UPand offer more educational benefits and paid apprenticeships opportunities that give workers the chance to earn higher paying jobs even if they do not have a higher education . And as a new generation of veterans comes home , we owe them every opportunity to live the American Dream they helped defend . Already , we have made strides towards ensuring that every veteran has access to the highest quality care . We are slashing the backlog that had too many veterans waiting years to get the benefits they need . And we are making it easier for vets to translate their training and experience into civilian jobs . And Joining Forces , the national campaign launched by Michelle and Jill Biden thank you , Michelle thank you , Jill has helped nearly 700 , 000 veterans and military spouses get a new job . So to every CEO in America , let me repeat If you want somebody who is going to get the job done and done right , hire a veteran . Finally , as we better train our workers , we need the new economy to keep churning out high wage jobs for our workers to fill . Since 2010 , America has put more people back to work than Europe , Japan , and all advanced economies combined . Our manufacturers have added almost 800 , 000 new jobs . Some of our bedrock sectors , like our auto industry , are booming . But there are also millions of Americans who work in jobs that did not even exist 10 or 20 years ago jobs at companies like Google , and eBay , and Tesla . So no one knows for certain which industries will generate the jobs of the future . But we do know we want them here in America . We know that . And that is why the third part of middle class economics is all about building the most competitive economy anywhere , the place where businesses want to locate and hire . Twenty first century businesses need 21st century infrastructure modern ports , and stronger bridges , faster trains and the fastest Internet . Democrats and Republicans used to agree on this . So let us set our sights higher than a single oil pipeline . Let us pass a bipartisan infrastructure plan that could create more than 30 times as many jobs per year , and make this country stronger for decades to come . Let us do it . Let us get it done . Let us get it done . Twenty first century businesses , including small businesses , need to sell more American products overseas . Today , our businesses export more than ever , and exporters tend to pay their workers higher wages . But as we speak , China wants to write the rules for the world s fastest growing region . That would put our workers and our businesses at a disadvantage . Why would we let that happen We should write those rules . We should level the playing field . That is why I am asking both parties to give me trade promotion authority to protect American workers , with strong new trade deals from Asia to Europe that are not just free , but are also fair . It is the right thing to do . Look , I am the first one to admit that past trade deals have not always lived up to the hype , and that is why we have gone after countries that break the rules at our expense . But 95 percent of the world s customers live outside our borders . We cannot close ourselves off from those opportunities . More than half of manufacturing executives have said they are actively looking to bring jobs back from China . So let us give them one more reason to get it done . Twenty first century businesses will rely on American science and technology , research and development . I want the country that eliminated polio and mapped the human genome to lead a new era of medicine one that delivers the right treatment at the right time . In some patients with cystic fibrosis , this approach has reversed a disease once thought unstoppable . So tonight , I am launching a new Precision Medicine Initiative to bring us closer to curing diseases like cancer and diabetes , and to give all of us access to the personalized information we need to keep ourselves and our families healthier . We can do this . I intend to protect a free and open Internet , extend its reach to every classroom , and every community and help folks build the fastest networks so that the next generation of digital innovators and entrepreneurs have the platform to keep reshaping our world . I want Americans to win the race for the kinds of discoveries that unleash new jobs converting sunlight into liquid fuel creating revolutionary prosthetics , so that a veteran who gave his arms for his country can play catch with his kids again . Pushing out into the solar system not just to visit , but to stay . Last month , we launched a new spacecraft as part of a reenergized space program that will send American astronauts to Mars . And in two months , to prepare us for those missions , Scott Kelly will begin a year long stay in space . So good luck , Captain . Make sure to Instagram it . We are proud of you . Now , the truth is , when it comes to issues like infrastructure and basic research , I know there is bipartisan support in this chamber . Members of both parties have told me so . Where we too often run onto the rocks is how to pay for these investments . As Americans , we do not mind paying our fair share of taxes as long as everybody else does , too . But for far too long , lobbyists have rigged the tax code with loopholes that let some corporations pay nothing while others pay full freight . They have riddled it with giveaways that the super rich do not need , while denying a break to middle class families who do . This year , we have an opportunity to change that . Let us close loopholes so we stop rewarding companies that keep profits abroad , and reward those that invest here in America . Let us use those savings to rebuild our infrastructure and to make it more attractive for companies to bring jobs home . Let us simplify the system and let a small business owner file based on her actual bank statement , instead of the number of accountants she can afford . And let us close the loopholes that lead to inequality by allowing the top one percent to avoid paying taxes on their accumulated wealth . We can use that money to help more families pay for childcare and send their kids to college . We need a tax code that truly helps working Americans trying to get a leg up in the new economy , and we can achieve that together . We can achieve it together . Helping hardworking families make ends meet . Giving them the tools they need for good paying jobs in this new economy . Maintaining the conditions of growth and competitiveness . This is where America needs to go . I believe it is where the American people want to go . It will make our economy stronger a year from now , 15 years from now , and deep into the century ahead . Of course , if there is one thing this new century has taught us , it is that we cannot separate our work here at home from challenges beyond our shores . My first duty as Commander in Chief is to defend the United States of America . In doing so , the question is not whether America leads in the world , but how . When we make rash decisions , reacting to the headlines instead of using our heads when the first response to a challenge is to send in our military then we risk getting drawn into unnecessary conflicts , and neglect the broader strategy we need for a safer , more prosperous world . That is what our enemies want us to do . I believe in a smarter kind of American leadership . We lead best when we combine military power with strong diplomacy when we leverage our power with coalition building when we do not let our fears blind us to the opportunities that this new century presents . That is exactly what we are doing right now . And around the globe , it is making a difference . First , we stand united with people around the world who have been targeted by terrorists from a school in Pakistan to the streets of Paris . We will continue to hunt down terrorists and dismantle their networks , and we reserve the right to act unilaterally , as we have done relentlessly since I took office to take out terrorists who pose a direct threat to us and our allies . At the same time , we have learned some costly lessons over the last 13 years . Instead of Americans patrolling the valleys of Afghanistan , we have trained their security forces , who have now taken the lead , and we have honored our troops sacrifice by supporting that country s first democratic transition . Instead of sending large ground forces overseas , we are partnering with nations from South Asia to North Africa to deny safe haven to terrorists who threaten America . In Iraq and Syria , American leadership including our military power is stopping ISIL s advance . Instead of getting dragged into another ground war in the Middle East , we are leading a broad coalition , including Arab nations , to degrade and ultimately destroy this terrorist group . We are also supporting a moderate opposition in Syria that can help us in this effort , and assisting people everywhere who stand up to the bankrupt ideology of violent extremism . Now , this effort will take time . It will require focus . But we will succeed . And tonight , I call on this Congress to show the world that we are united in this mission by passing a resolution to authorize the use of force against ISIWe need that authority . Second , we are demonstrating the power of American strength and diplomacy . We are upholding the principle that bigger nations cannot bully the small by opposing Russian aggression , and supporting Ukraine s democracy , and reassuring our NATO allies . Last year , as we were doing the hard work of imposing sanctions along with our allies , as we were reinforcing our presence with frontline states , Putin s aggression it was suggested was a masterful display of strategy and strength . That is what I heard from some folks . Well , today , it is America that stands strong and united with our allies , while Russia is isolated with its economy in tatters . That is how America leads not with bluster , but with persistent , steady resolve . In Cuba , we are ending a policy that was long past its expiration date . When what you are doing does not work for 50 years , it is time to try something new . And our shift in Cuba policy has the potential to end a legacy of mistrust in our hemisphere . It removes a phony excuse for restrictions in Cuba . It stands up for democratic values , and extends the hand of friendship to the Cuban people . And this year , Congress should begin the work of ending the embargo . As His Holiness , Pope Francis , has said , diplomacy is the work of small steps . These small steps have added up to new hope for the future in Cuba . And after years in prison , we are overjoyed that Alan Gross is back where he belongs . Welcome home , Alan . We are glad you are here . Our diplomacy is at work with respect to Iran , where , for the first time in a decade , we have halted the progress of its nuclear program and reduced its stockpile of nuclear material . Between now and this spring , we have a chance to negotiate a comprehensive agreement that prevents a nuclear armed Iran , secures America and our allies including Israel , while avoiding yet another Middle East conflict . There are no guarantees that negotiations will succeed , and I keep all options on the table to prevent a nuclear Iran . But new sanctions passed by this Congress , at this moment in time , will all but guarantee that diplomacy fails alienating America from its allies making it harder to maintain sanctions and ensuring that Iran starts up its nuclear program again . It does not make sense . And that is why I will veto any new sanctions bill that threatens to undo this progress . The American people expect us only to go to war as a last resort , and I intend to stay true to that wisdom . Third , we are looking beyond the issues that have consumed us in the past to shape the coming century . No foreign nation , no hacker , should be able to shut down our networks , steal our trade secrets , or invade the privacy of American families , especially our kids . So we are making sure our government integrates intelligence to combat cyber threats , just as we have done to combat terrorism . And tonight , I urge this Congress to finally pass the legislation we need to better meet the evolving threat of cyber attacks , combat identity theft , and protect our children s information . That should be a bipartisan effort . If we do not act , we will leave our nation and our economy vulnerable . If we do , we can continue to protect the technologies that have unleashed untold opportunities for people around the globe . In West Africa , our troops , our scientists , our doctors , our nurses , our health care workers are rolling back Ebola saving countless lives and stopping the spread of disease . I could not be prouder of them , and I thank this Congress for your bipartisan support of their efforts . But the job is not yet done , and the world needs to use this lesson to build a more effective global effort to prevent the spread of future pandemics , invest in smart development , and eradicate extreme poverty . In the Asia Pacific , we are modernizing alliances while making sure that other nations play by the rules in how they trade , how they resolve maritime disputes , how they participate in meeting common international challenges like nonproliferation and disaster relief . And no challenge no challenge poses a greater threat to future generations than climate change . 2014 was the planet s warmest year on record . Now , one year does not make a trend , but this does 14 of the 15 warmest years on record have all fallen in the first 15 years of this century . I have heard some folks try to dodge the evidence by saying they are not scientists that we do not have enough information to act . Well , I am not a scientist , either . But you know what , I know a lot of really good scientists at NASand at NOAand at our major universities . And the best scientists in the world are all telling us that our activities are changing the climate , and if we do not act forcefully , we will continue to see rising oceans , longer , hotter heat waves , dangerous droughts and floods , and massive disruptions that can trigger greater migration and conflict and hunger around the globe . The Pentagon says that climate change poses immediate risks to our national security . We should act like it . And that is why , over the past six years , we have done more than ever to combat climate change , from the way we produce energy to the way we use it . That is why we have set aside more public lands and waters than any administration in history . And that is whyI will not let this Congress endanger the health of our children by turning back the clock on our efforts . I am determined to make sure that American leadership drives international action . In Beijing , we made a historic announcement The United States will double the pace at which we cut carbon pollution . And China committed , for the first time , to limiting their emissions . And because the world s two largest economies came together , other nations are now stepping up , and offering hope that this year the world will finally reach an agreement to protect the one planet we have got . And there is one last pillar of our leadership , and that is the example of our values . As Americans , we respect human dignity , even when we are threatened , which is why I have prohibited torture , and worked to make sure our use of new technology like drones is properly constrained . It is why we speak out against the deplorable anti Semitism that has resurfaced in certain parts of the world . It is why we continue to reject offensive stereotypes of Muslims , the vast majority of whom share our commitment to peace . That is why we defend free speech , and advocate for political prisoners , and condemn the persecution of women , or religious minorities , or people who are lesbian , gay , bisexual or transgender . We do these things not only because they are the right thing to do , but because ultimately they will make us safer . As Americans , we have a profound commitment to justice . So it makes no sense to spend 3 million per prisoner to keep open a prison that the world condemns and terrorists use to recruit . Since I have been President , we have worked responsibly to cut the population of Gitmo in half . Now it is time to finish the job . And I will not relent in my determination to shut it down . It is not who we are . It is time to close Gitmo . As Americans , we cherish our civil liberties , and we need to uphold that commitment if we want maximum cooperation from other countries and industry in our fight against terrorist networks . So while some have moved on from the debates over our surveillance programs , I have not . As promised , our intelligence agencies have worked hard , with the recommendations of privacy advocates , to increase transparency and build more safeguards against potential abuse . And next month , we will issue a report on how we are keeping our promise to keep our country safe while strengthening privacy . Looking to the future instead of the past . Making sure we match our power with diplomacy , and use force wisely . Building coalitions to meet new challenges and opportunities . Leading always with the example of our values . That is what makes us exceptional . That is what keeps us strong . That is why we have to keep striving to hold ourselves to the highest of standards our own . You know , just over a decade ago , I gave a speech in Boston where I said there was not a liberal America or a conservative America a black America or a white America but a United States of America . I said this because I had seen it in my own life , in a nation that gave someone like me a chance because I grew up in Hawaii , a melting pot of races and customs because I made Illinois my home a state of small towns , rich farmland , one of the world s great cities a microcosm of the country where Democrats and Republicans and Independents , good people of every ethnicity and every faith , share certain bedrock values . Over the past six years , the pundits have pointed out more than once that my presidency has not delivered on this vision . How ironic , they say , that our politics seems more divided than ever . It is held up as proof not just of my own flaws of which there are many but also as proof that the vision itself is misguided , naive , that there are too many people in this town who actually benefit from partisanship and gridlock for us to ever do anything about it . I know how tempting such cynicism may be . But I still think the cynics are wrong . I still believe that we are one people . I still believe that together , we can do great things , even when the odds are long . I believe this because over and over in my six years in office , I have seen America at its best . I have seen the hopeful faces of young graduates from New York to California , and our newest officers at West Point , Annapolis , Colorado Springs , New London . I have mourned with grieving families in Tucson and Newtown , in Boston , in West Texas , and West Virginia . I have watched Americans beat back adversity from the Gulf Coast to the Great Plains , from Midwest assembly lines to the Mid Atlantic seaboard . I have seen something like gay marriage go from a wedge issue used to drive us apart to a story of freedom across our country , a civil right now legal in states that seven in 10 Americans call home . So I know the good , and optimistic , and big hearted generosity of the American people who every day live the idea that we are our brother s keeper and our sister s keeper . And I know they expect those of us who serve here to set a better example . So the question for those of us here tonight is how we , all of us , can better reflect America s hopes . I have served in Congress with many of you . I know many of you well . There are a lot of good people here , on both sides of the aisle . And many of you have told me that this is not what you signed up for arguing past each other on cable shows , the constant fundraising , always looking over your shoulder at how the base will react to every decision . Imagine if we broke out of these tired old patterns . Imagine if we did something different . Understand , a better politics is not one where Democrats abandon their agenda or Republicans simply embrace mine . A better politics is one where we appeal to each other s basic decency instead of our basest fears . A better politics is one where we debate without demonizing each other where we talk issues and values , and principles and facts , rather than gotcha moments , or trivial gaffes , or fake controversies that have nothing to do with people s daily lives . A politics a better politics is one where we spend less time drowning in dark money for ads that pull us into the gutter , and spend more time lifting young people up with a sense of purpose and possibility , asking them to join in the great mission of building America . If we are going to have arguments , let us have arguments , but let us make them debates worthy of this body and worthy of this country . We still may not agree on a woman s right to choose , but surely we can agree it is a good thing that teen pregnancies and abortions are nearing all time lows , and that every woman should have access to the health care that she needs . Yes , passions still fly on immigration , but surely we can all see something of ourselves in the striving young student , and agree that no one benefits when a hardworking mom is snatched from her child , and that it is possible to shape a law that upholds our tradition as a nation of laws and a nation of immigrants . I have talked to Republicans and Democrats about that . That is something that we can share . We may go at it in campaign season , but surely we can agree that the right to vote is sacred that it is being denied to too many and that on this 50th anniversary of the great march from Selma to Montgomery and the passage of the Voting Rights Act , we can come together , Democrats and Republicans , to make voting easier for every single American . We may have different takes on the events of Ferguson and New York . But surely we can understand a father who fears his son cannot walk home without being harassed . And surely we can understand the wife who will not rest until the police officer she married walks through the front door at the end of his shift . And surely we can agree that it is a good thing that for the first time in 40 years , the crime rate and the incarceration rate have come down together , and use that as a starting point for Democrats and Republicans , community leaders and law enforcement , to reform America s criminal justice system so that it protects and serves all of us . That is a better politics . That is how we start rebuilding trust . That is how we move this country forward . That is what the American people want . And that is what they deserve . I have no more campaigns to run . My only agenda I know because I won both of them . My only agenda for the next two years is the same as the one I have had since the day I swore an oath on the steps of this Capitol to do what I believe is best for America . If you share the broad vision I outlined tonight , I ask you to join me in the work at hand . If you disagree with parts of it , I hope you will at least work with me where you do agree . And I commit to every Republican here tonight that I will not only seek out your ideas , I will seek to work with you to make this country stronger . Because I want this chamber , I want this city to reflect the truth that for all our blind spots and shortcomings , we are a people with the strength and generosity of spirit to bridge divides , to unite in common effort , to help our neighbors , whether down the street or on the other side of the world . I want our actions to tell every child in every neighborhood , your life matters , and we are committed to improving your life chances as committed as we are to working on behalf of our own kids . I want future generations to know that we are a people who see our differences as a great gift , that we are a people who value the dignity and worth of every citizen man and woman , young and old , black and white , Latino , Asian , immigrant , Native American , gay , straight , Americans with mental illness or physical disability . Everybody matters . I want them to grow up in a country that shows the world what we still know to be true that we are still more than a collection of red states and blue states that we are the United States of America . I want them to grow up in a country where a young mom can sit down and write a letter to her President with a story that sums up these past six years It is amazing what you can bounce back from when you have to . . . we are a strong , tight knit family who is made it through some very , very hard times . My fellow Americans , we , too , are a strong , tight knit family . We , too , have made it through some hard times . Fifteen years into this new century , we have picked ourselves up , dusted ourselves off , and begun again the work of remaking America . We have laid a new foundation . A brighter future is ours to write . Let us begin this new chapter together and let us start the work right now . Thank you . God bless you . God bless this country we love . Thank you .<speech_sep>Speaker , Vice President , members of Congress , distinguished guests , and fellow Americans Tonight I want to begin by congratulating the men and women of the 112th Congress , as well as your new Speaker , John Boehner . And as we mark this occasion , we are also mindful of the empty chair in this chamber , and we pray for the health of our colleague and our friend Gabby Giffords . It is no secret that those of us here tonight have had our differences over the last two years . The debates have been contentious we have fought fiercely for our beliefs . And that is a good thing . That is what a robust democracy demands . That is what helps set us apart as a nation . But there is a reason the tragedy in Tucson gave us pause . Amid all the noise and passion and rancor of our public debate , Tucson reminded us that no matter who we are or where we come from , each of us is a part of something greater something more consequential than party or political preference . We are part of the American family . We believe that in a country where every race and faith and point of view can be found , we are still bound together as one people that we share common hopes and a common creed that the dreams of a little girl in Tucson are not so different than those of our own children , and that they all deserve the chance to be fulfilled . That , too , is what sets us apart as a nation . Now , by itself , this simple recognition will not usher in a new era of cooperation . What comes of this moment is up to us . What comes of this moment will be determined not by whether we can sit together tonight , but whether we can work together tomorrow . I believe we can . And I believe we must . That is what the people who sent us here expect of us . With their votes , they have determined that governing will now be a shared responsibility between parties . New laws will only pass with support from Democrats and Republicans . We will move forward together , or not at all for the challenges we face are bigger than party , and bigger than politics . At stake right now is not who wins the next election after all , we just had an election . At stake is whether new jobs and industries take root in this country , or somewhere else . It is whether the hard work and industry of our people is rewarded . It is whether we sustain the leadership that has made America not just a place on a map , but the light to the world . We are poised for progress . Two years after the worst recession most of us have ever known , the stock market has come roaring back . Corporate profits are up . The economy is growing again . But we have never measured progress by these yardsticks alone . We measure progress by the success of our people . By the jobs they can find and the quality of life those jobs offer . By the prospects of a small business owner who dreams of turning a good idea into a thriving enterprise . By the opportunities for a better life that we pass on to our children . That is the project the American people want us to work on . Together . We did that in December . Thanks to the tax cuts we passed , Americans paychecks are a little bigger today . Every business can write off the full cost of new investments that they make this year . And these steps , taken by Democrats and Republicans , will grow the economy and add to the more than one million private sector jobs created last year . But we have to do more . These steps we have taken over the last two years may have broken the back of this recession , but to win the future , we will need to take on challenges that have been decades in the making . Many people watching tonight can probably remember a time when finding a good job meant showing up at a nearby factory or a business downtown . You did not always need a degree , and your competition was pretty much limited to your neighbors . If you worked hard , chances are you had have a job for life , with a decent paycheck and good benefits and the occasional promotion . Maybe you had even have the pride of seeing your kids work at the same company . That world has changed . And for many , the change has been painful . I have seen it in the shuttered windows of once booming factories , and the vacant storefronts on once busy Main Streets . I have heard it in the frustrations of Americans who have seen their paychecks dwindle or their jobs disappear proud men and women who feel like the rules have been changed in the middle of the game . They are right . The rules have changed . In a single generation , revolutions in technology have transformed the way we live , work and do business . Steel mills that once needed 1 , 000 workers can now do the same work with 100 . Today , just about any company can set up shop , hire workers , and sell their products wherever there is an Internet connection . Meanwhile , nations like China and India realized that with some changes of their own , they could compete in this new world . And so they started educating their children earlier and longer , with greater emphasis on math and science . They are investing in research and new technologies . Just recently , China became the home to the world s largest private solar research facility , and the world s fastest computer . So , yes , the world has changed . The competition for jobs is real . But this should not discourage us . It should challenge us . Remember for all the hits we have taken these last few years , for all the naysayers predicting our decline , America still has the largest , most prosperous economy in the world . No workers no workers are more productive than ours . No country has more successful companies , or grants more patents to inventors and entrepreneurs . We are the home to the world s best colleges and universities , where more students come to study than any place on Earth . What is more , we are the first nation to be founded for the sake of an idea the idea that each of us deserves the chance to shape our own destiny . That is why centuries of pioneers and immigrants have risked everything to come here . It is why our students do not just memorize equations , but answer questions like What do you think of that idea What would you change about the world What do you want to be when you grow up The future is ours to win . But to get there , we cannot just stand still . As Robert Kennedy told us , The future is not a gift . It is an achievement . Sustaining the American Dream has never been about standing pat . It has required each generation to sacrifice , and struggle , and meet the demands of a new age . And now it is our turn . We know what it takes to compete for the jobs and industries of our time . We need to out innovate , out educate , and out build the rest of the world . We have to make America the best place on Earth to do business . We need to take responsibility for our deficit and reform our government . That is how our people will prosper . That is how we will win the future . And tonight , I had like to talk about how we get there . The first step in winning the future is encouraging American innovation . None of us can predict with certainty what the next big industry will be or where the new jobs will come from . Thirty years ago , we could not know that something called the Internet would lead to an economic revolution . What we can do what America does better than anyone else is spark the creativity and imagination of our people . We are the nation that put cars in driveways and computers in offices the nation of Edison and the Wright brothers of Google and Facebook . In America , innovation does not just change our lives . It is how we make our living . Our free enterprise system is what drives innovation . But because it is not always profitable for companies to invest in basic research , throughout our history , our government has provided cutting edge scientists and inventors with the support that they need . That is what planted the seeds for the Internet . That is what helped make possible things like computer chips and GPJust think of all the good jobs from manufacturing to retail that have come from these breakthroughs . Half a century ago , when the Soviets beat us into space with the launch of a satellite called Sputnik , we had no idea how we would beat them to the moon . The science was not even there yet . NASA did not exist . But after investing in better research and education , we did not just surpass the Soviets we unleashed a wave of innovation that created new industries and millions of new jobs . This is our generation s Sputnik moment . Two years ago , I said that we needed to reach a level of research and development we have not seen since the height of the Space Race . And in a few weeks , I will be sending a budget to Congress that helps us meet that goal . We will invest in biomedical research , information technology , and especially clean energy technology an investment that will strengthen our security , protect our planet , and create countless new jobs for our people . Already , we are seeing the promise of renewable energy . Robert and Gary Allen are brothers who run a small Michigan roofing company . After September 11th , they volunteered their best roofers to help repair the Pentagon . But half of their factory went unused , and the recession hit them hard . Today , with the help of a government loan , that empty space is being used to manufacture solar shingles that are being sold all across the country . In Robert s words , We reinvented ourselves . That is what Americans have done for over 200 years reinvented ourselves . And to spur on more success stories like the Allen Brothers , we have begun to reinvent our energy policy . We are not just handing out money . We are issuing a challenge . We are telling America s scientists and engineers that if they assemble teams of the best minds in their fields , and focus on the hardest problems in clean energy , we will fund the Apollo projects of our time . At the California Institute of Technology , they are developing a way to turn sunlight and water into fuel for our cars . At Oak Ridge National Laboratory , they are using supercomputers to get a lot more power out of our nuclear facilities . With more research and incentives , we can break our dependence on oil with biofuels , and become the first country to have a million electric vehicles on the road by 2015 . We need to get behind this innovation . And to help pay for it , I am asking Congress to eliminate the billions in taxpayer dollars we currently give to oil companies . I do not know if I do not know if you have noticed , but they are doing just fine on their own . So instead of subsidizing yesterday s energy , let us invest in tomorrow s . Now , clean energy breakthroughs will only translate into clean energy jobs if businesses know there will be a market for what they are selling . So tonight , I challenge you to join me in setting a new goal By 2035 , 80 percent of America s electricity will come from clean energy sources . Some folks want wind and solar . Others want nuclear , clean coal and natural gas . To meet this goal , we will need them all and I urge Democrats and Republicans to work together to make it happen . Maintaining our leadership in research and technology is crucial to America s success . But if we want to win the future if we want innovation to produce jobs in America and not overseas then we also have to win the race to educate our kids . Think about it . Over the next 10 years , nearly half of all new jobs will require education that goes beyond a high school education . And yet , as many as a quarter of our students are not even finishing high school . The quality of our math and science education lags behind many other nations . America has fallen to ninth in the proportion of young people with a college degree . And so the question is whether all of us as citizens , and as parents are willing to do what is necessary to give every child a chance to succeed . That responsibility begins not in our classrooms , but in our homes and communities . It is family that first instills the love of learning in a child . Only parents can make sure the TV is turned off and homework gets done . We need to teach our kids that it is not just the winner of the Super Bowl who deserves to be celebrated , but the winner of the science fair . We need to teach them that success is not a function of fame or Pbut of hard work and discipline . Our schools share this responsibility . When a child walks into a classroom , it should be a place of high expectations and high performance . But too many schools do not meet this test . That is why instead of just pouring money into a system that is not working , we launched a competition called Race to the Top . To all 50 states , we said , If you show us the most innovative plans to improve teacher quality and student achievement , we will show you the money . Race to the Top is the most meaningful reform of our public schools in a generation . For less than 1 percent of what we spend on education each year , it has led over 40 states to raise their standards for teaching and learning . And these standards were developed , by the way , not by Washington , but by Republican and Democratic governors throughout the country . And Race to the Top should be the approach we follow this year as we replace No Child Left Behind with a law that is more flexible and focused on what is best for our kids . You see , we know what is possible from our children when reform is not just a top down mandate , but the work of local teachers and principals , school boards and communities . Take a school like Bruce Randolph in Denver . Three years ago , it was rated one of the worst schools in Colorado located on turf between two rival gangs . But last May , 97 percent of the seniors received their diploma . Most will be the first in their families to go to college . And after the first year of the school s transformation , the principal who made it possible wiped away tears when a student said , Thank you , Waters , for showing that we are smart and we can make it . That is what good schools can do , and we want good schools all across the country . Let us also remember that after parents , the biggest impact on a child s success comes from the man or woman at the front of the classroom . In South Korea , teachers are known as nation builders . Here in America , it is time we treated the people who educate our children with the same level of respect . We want to reward good teachers and stop making excuses for bad ones . And over the next 10 years , with so many baby boomers retiring from our classrooms , we want to prepare 100 , 000 new teachers in the fields of science and technology and engineering and math . In fact , to every young person listening tonight who is contemplating their career choice If you want to make a difference in the life of our nation if you want to make a difference in the life of a child become a teacher . Your country needs you . Of course , the education race does not end with a high school diploma . To compete , higher education must be within the reach of every American . That is why we have ended the unwarranted taxpayer subsidies that went to banks , and used the savings to make college affordable for millions of students . And this year , I ask Congress to go further , and make permanent our tuition tax credit worth 10 , 000 for four years of college . It is the right thing to do . Because people need to be able to train for new jobs and careers in today s fast changing economy , we are also revitalizing America s community colleges . Last month , I saw the promise of these schools at Forsyth Tech in North Carolina . Many of the students there used to work in the surrounding factories that have since left town . One mother of two , a woman named Kathy Proctor , had worked in the furniture industry since she was 18 years old . And she told me she is earning her degree in biotechnology now , at 55 years old , not just because the furniture jobs are gone , but because she wants to inspire her children to pursue their dreams , too . As Kathy said , I hope it tells them to never give up . If we take these steps if we raise expectations for every child , and give them the best possible chance at an education , from the day they are born until the last job they take we will reach the goal that I set two years ago By the end of the decade , America will once again have the highest proportion of college graduates in the world . One last point about education . Today , there are hundreds of thousands of students excelling in our schools who are not American citizens . Some are the children of undocumented workers , who had nothing to do with the actions of their parents . They grew up as Americans and pledge allegiance to our flag , and yet they live every day with the threat of deportation . Others come here from abroad to study in our colleges and universities . But as soon as they obtain advanced degrees , we send them back home to compete against us . It makes no sense . Now , I strongly believe that we should take on , once and for all , the issue of illegal immigration . And I am prepared to work with Republicans and Democrats to protect our borders , enforce our laws and address the millions of undocumented workers who are now living in the shadows . I know that debate will be difficult . I know it will take time . But tonight , let us agree to make that effort . And let us stop expelling talented , responsible young people who could be staffing our research labs or starting a new business , who could be further enriching this nation . The third step in winning the future is rebuilding America . To attract new businesses to our shores , we need the fastest , most reliable ways to move people , goods , and information from high speed rail to high speed Internet . Our infrastructure used to be the best , but our lead has slipped . South Korean homes now have greater Internet access than we do . Countries in Europe and Russia invest more in their roads and railways than we do . China is building faster trains and newer airports . Meanwhile , when our own engineers graded our nation s infrastructure , they gave us a D . We have to do better . America is the nation that built the transcontinental railroad , brought electricity to rural communities , constructed the Interstate Highway System . The jobs created by these projects did not just come from laying down track or pavement . They came from businesses that opened near a town s new train station or the new off ramp . So over the last two years , we have begun rebuilding for the 21st century , a project that has meant thousands of good jobs for the hard hit construction industry . And tonight , I am proposing that we redouble those efforts . We will put more Americans to work repairing crumbling roads and bridges . We will make sure this is fully paid for , attract private investment , and pick projects based what is best for the economy , not politicians . Within 25 years , our goal is to give 80 percent of Americans access to high speed rail . This could allow you to go places in half the time it takes to travel by car . For some trips , it will be faster than flying without the pat down . As we speak , routes in California and the Midwest are already underway . Within the next five years , we will make it possible for businesses to deploy the next generation of high speed wireless coverage to 98 percent of all Americans . This is not just about this is not about faster Internet or fewer dropped calls . It is about connecting every part of America to the digital age . It is about a rural community in Iowa or Alabama where farmers and small business owners will be able to sell their products all over the world . It is about a firefighter who can download the design of a burning building onto a handheld device a student who can take classes with a digital textbook or a patient who can have face to face video chats with her doctor . All these investments in innovation , education , and infrastructure will make America a better place to do business and create jobs . But to help our companies compete , we also have to knock down barriers that stand in the way of their success . For example , over the years , a parade of lobbyists has rigged the tax code to benefit particular companies and industries . Those with accountants or lawyers to work the system can end up paying no taxes at all . But all the rest are hit with one of the highest corporate tax rates in the world . It makes no sense , and it has to change . So tonight , I am asking Democrats and Republicans to simplify the system . Get rid of the loopholes . Level the playing field . And use the savings to lower the corporate tax rate for the first time in 25 years without adding to our deficit . It can be done . To help businesses sell more products abroad , we set a goal of doubling our exports by 2014 because the more we export , the more jobs we create here at home . Already , our exports are up . Recently , we signed agreements with India and China that will support more than 250 , 000 jobs here in the United States . And last month , we finalized a trade agreement with South Korea that will support at least 70 , 000 American jobs . This agreement has unprecedented support from business and labor , Democrats and Republicans and I ask this Congress to pass it as soon as possible . Now , before I took office , I made it clear that we would enforce our trade agreements , and that I would only sign deals that keep faith with American workers and promote American jobs . That is what we did with Korea , and that is what I intend to do as we pursue agreements with Panama and Colombia and continue our Asia Pacific and global trade talks . To reduce barriers to growth and investment , I have ordered a review of government regulations . When we find rules that put an unnecessary burden on businesses , we will fix them . But I will not hesitate to create or enforce common sense safeguards to protect the American people . That is what we have done in this country for more than a century . It is why our food is safe to eat , our water is safe to drink , and our air is safe to breathe . It is why we have speed limits and child labor laws . It is why last year , we put in place consumer protections against hidden fees and penalties by credit card companies and new rules to prevent another financial crisis . And it is why we passed reform that finally prevents the health insurance industry from exploiting patients . Now , I have heard rumors that a few of you still have concerns about our new health care law . So let me be the first to say that anything can be improved . If you have ideas about how to improve this law by making care better or more affordable , I am eager to work with you . We can start right now by correcting a flaw in the legislation that has placed an unnecessary bookkeeping burden on small businesses . What I am not willing to do what I am not willing to do is go back to the days when insurance companies could deny someone coverage because of a preexisting condition . I am not willing to tell James Howard , a brain cancer patient from Texas , that his treatment might not be covered . I am not willing to tell Jim Houser , a small business man from Oregon , that he has to go back to paying 5 , 000 more to cover his employees . As we speak , this law is making prescription drugs cheaper for seniors and giving uninsured students a chance to stay on their patients parents coverage . So I say to this chamber tonight , instead of re fighting the battles of the last two years , let us fix what needs fixing and let us move forward . Now , the final critical step in winning the future is to make sure we are not buried under a mountain of debt . We are living with a legacy of deficit spending that began almost a decade ago . And in the wake of the financial crisis , some of that was necessary to keep credit flowing , save jobs , and put money in people s pockets . But now that the worst of the recession is over , we have to confront the fact that our government spends more than it takes in . That is not sustainable . Every day , families sacrifice to live within their means . They deserve a government that does the same . So tonight , I am proposing that starting this year , we freeze annual domestic spending for the next five years . Now , this would reduce the deficit by more than 400 billion over the next decade , and will bring discretionary spending to the lowest share of our economy since Dwight Eisenhower was President . This freeze will require painful cuts . Already , we have frozen the salaries of hardworking federal employees for the next two years . I have proposed cuts to things I care deeply about , like community action programs . The Secretary of Defense has also agreed to cut tens of billions of dollars in spending that he and his generals believe our military can do without . I recognize that some in this chamber have already proposed deeper cuts , and I am willing to eliminate whatever we can honestly afford to do without . But let us make sure that we are not doing it on the backs of our most vulnerable citizens . And let us make sure that what we are cutting is really excess weight . Cutting the deficit by gutting our investments in innovation and education is like lightening an overloaded airplane by removing its engine . It may make you feel like you are flying high at first , but it will not take long before you feel the impact . Now , most of the cuts and savings I have proposed only address annual domestic spending , which represents a little more than 12 percent of our budget . To make further progress , we have to stop pretending that cutting this kind of spending alone will be enough . It will not . The bipartisan fiscal commission I created last year made this crystal clear . I do not agree with all their proposals , but they made important progress . And their conclusion is that the only way to tackle our deficit is to cut excessive spending wherever we find it in domestic spending , defense spending , health care spending , and spending through tax breaks and loopholes . This means further reducing health care costs , including programs like Medicare and Medicaid , which are the single biggest contributor to our long term deficit . The health insurance law we passed last year will slow these rising costs , which is part of the reason that nonpartisan economists have said that repealing the health care law would add a quarter of a trillion dollars to our deficit . Still , I am willing to look at other ideas to bring down costs , including one that Republicans suggested last year medical malpractice reform to rein in frivolous lawsuits . To put us on solid ground , we should also find a bipartisan solution to strengthen Social Security for future generations . We must do it without putting at risk current retirees , the most vulnerable , or people with disabilities without slashing benefits for future generations and without subjecting Americans guaranteed retirement income to the whims of the stock market . And if we truly care about our deficit , we simply cannot afford a permanent extension of the tax cuts for the wealthiest 2 percent of Americans . Before we take money away from our schools or scholarships away from our students , we should ask millionaires to give up their tax break . It is not a matter of punishing their success . It is about promoting America s success . In fact , the best thing we could do on taxes for all Americans is to simplify the individual tax code . This will be a tough job , but members of both parties have expressed an interest in doing this , and I am prepared to join them . So now is the time to act . Now is the time for both sides and both houses of Congress Democrats and Republicans to forge a principled compromise that gets the job done . If we make the hard choices now to rein in our deficits , we can make the investments we need to win the future . Let me take this one step further . We should not just give our people a government that is more affordable . We should give them a government that is more competent and more efficient . We cannot win the future with a government of the past . We live and do business in the Information Age , but the last major reorganization of the government happened in the age of black and white TThere are 12 different agencies that deal with exports . There are at least five different agencies that deal with housing policy . Then there is my favorite example The Interior Department is in charge of salmon while they are in fresh water , but the Commerce Department handles them when they are in saltwater . I hear it gets even more complicated once they are smoked . Now , we have made great strides over the last two years in using technology and getting rid of waste . Veterans can now download their electronic medical records with a click of the mouse . We are selling acres of federal office space that has not been used in years , and we will cut through red tape to get rid of more . But we need to think bigger . In the coming months , my administration will develop a proposal to merge , consolidate , and reorganize the federal government in a way that best serves the goal of a more competitive America . I will submit that proposal to Congress for a vote and we will push to get it passed . In the coming year , we will also work to rebuild people s faith in the institution of government . Because you deserve to know exactly how and where your tax dollars are being spent , you will be able to go to a website and get that information for the very first time in history . Because you deserve to know when your elected officials are meeting with lobbyists , I ask Congress to do what the White House has already done put that information online . And because the American people deserve to know that special interests are not larding up legislation with pet projects , both parties in Congress should know this If a bill comes to my desk with earmarks inside , I will veto it . I will veto it . The 21st century government that is open and competent . A government that lives within its means . An economy that is driven by new skills and new ideas . Our success in this new and changing world will require reform , responsibility , and innovation . It will also require us to approach that world with a new level of engagement in our foreign affairs . Just as jobs and businesses can now race across borders , so can new threats and new challenges . No single wall separates East and West . No one rival superpower is aligned against us . And so we must defeat determined enemies , wherever they are , and build coalitions that cut across lines of region and race and religion . And America s moral example must always shine for all who yearn for freedom and justice and dignity . And because we have begun this work , tonight we can say that American leadership has been renewed and America s standing has been restored . Look to Iraq , where nearly 100 , 000 of our brave men and women have left with their heads held high . American combat patrols have ended , violence is down , and a new government has been formed . This year , our civilians will forge a lasting partnership with the Iraqi people , while we finish the job of bringing our troops out of Iraq . America s commitment has been kept . The Iraq war is coming to an end . Of course , as we speak , al Qaeda and their affiliates continue to plan attacks against us . Thanks to our intelligence and law enforcement professionals , we are disrupting plots and securing our cities and skies . And as extremists try to inspire acts of violence within our borders , we are responding with the strength of our communities , with respect for the rule of law , and with the conviction that American Muslims are a part of our American family . We have also taken the fight to al Qaeda and their allies abroad . In Afghanistan , our troops have taken Taliban strongholds and trained Afghan security forces . Our purpose is clear By preventing the Taliban from reestablishing a stranglehold over the Afghan people , we will deny al Qaeda the safe haven that served as a launching pad for 9 11 . Thanks to our heroic troops and civilians , fewer Afghans are under the control of the insurgency . There will be tough fighting ahead , and the Afghan government will need to deliver better governance . But we are strengthening the capacity of the Afghan people and building an enduring partnership with them . This year , we will work with nearly 50 countries to begin a transition to an Afghan lead . And this July , we will begin to bring our troops home . In Pakistan , al Qaeda s leadership is under more pressure than at any point since 2001 . Their leaders and operatives are being removed from the battlefield . Their safe havens are shrinking . And we have sent a message from the Afghan border to the Arabian Peninsula to all parts of the globe We will not relent , we will not waver , and we will defeat you . American leadership can also be seen in the effort to secure the worst weapons of war . Because Republicans and Democrats approved the New START treaty , far fewer nuclear weapons and launchers will be deployed . Because we rallied the world , nuclear materials are being locked down on every continent so they never fall into the hands of terrorists . Because of a diplomatic effort to insist that Iran meet its obligations , the Iranian government now faces tougher sanctions , tighter sanctions than ever before . And on the Korean Peninsula , we stand with our ally South Korea , and insist that North Korea keeps its commitment to abandon nuclear weapons . This is just a part of how we are shaping a world that favors peace and prosperity . With our European allies , we revitalized NATO and increased our cooperation on everything from counterterrorism to missile defense . We have reset our relationship with Russia , strengthened Asian alliances , built new partnerships with nations like India . This March , I will travel to Brazil , Chile , and El Salvador to forge new alliances across the Americas . Around the globe , we are standing with those who take responsibility helping farmers grow more food , supporting doctors who care for the sick , and combating the corruption that can rot a society and rob people of opportunity . Recent events have shown us that what sets us apart must not just be our power it must also be the purpose behind it . In south Sudan with our assistance the people were finally able to vote for independence after years of war . Thousands lined up before dawn . People danced in the streets . One man who lost four of his brothers at war summed up the scene around him This was a battlefield for most of my life , he said . Now we want to be free . And we saw that same desire to be free in Tunisia , where the will of the people proved more powerful than the writ of a dictator . And tonight , let us be clear The United States of America stands with the people of Tunisia , and supports the democratic aspirations of all people . We must never forget that the things we have struggled for , and fought for , live in the hearts of people everywhere . And we must always remember that the Americans who have borne the greatest burden in this struggle are the men and women who serve our country . Tonight , let us speak with one voice in reaffirming that our nation is united in support of our troops and their families . Let us serve them as well as they have served us by giving them the equipment they need , by providing them with the care and benefits that they have earned , and by enlisting our veterans in the great task of building our own nation . Our troops come from every corner of this country they are black , white , Latino , Asian , Native American . They are Christian and Hindu , Jewish and Muslim . And , yes , we know that some of them are gay . Starting this year , no American will be forbidden from serving the country they love because of who they love . And with that change , I call on all our college campuses to open their doors to our military recruiters and ROTIt is time to leave behind the divisive battles of the past . It is time to move forward as one nation . We should have no illusions about the work ahead of us . Reforming our schools , changing the way we use energy , reducing our deficit none of this will be easy . All of it will take time . And it will be harder because we will argue about everything . The costs . The details . The letter of every law . Of course , some countries do not have this problem . If the central government wants a railroad , they build a railroad , no matter how many homes get bulldozed . If they do not want a bad story in the newspaper , it does not get written . And yet , as contentious and frustrating and messy as our democracy can sometimes be , I know there is not a person here who would trade places with any other nation on Earth . We may have differences in policy , but we all believe in the rights enshrined in our Constitution . We may have different opinions , but we believe in the same promise that says this is a place where you can make it if you try . We may have different backgrounds , but we believe in the same dream that says this is a country where anything is possible . No matter who you are . No matter where you come from . That dream is why I can stand here before you tonight . That dream is why a working class kid from Scranton can sit behind me . That dream is why someone who began by sweeping the floors of his father s Cincinnati bar can preside as Speaker of the House in the greatest nation on Earth . That dream that American Dream is what drove the Allen Brothers to reinvent their roofing company for a new era . It is what drove those students at Forsyth Tech to learn a new skill and work towards the future . And that dream is the story of a small business owner named Brandon Fisher . Brandon started a company in Berlin , Pennsylvania , that specializes in a new kind of drilling technology . And one day last summer , he saw the news that halfway across the world , 33 men were trapped in a Chilean mine , and no one knew how to save them . But Brandon thought his company could help . And so he designed a rescue that would come to be known as Plan His employees worked around the clock to manufacture the necessary drilling equipment . And Brandon left for Chile . Along with others , he began drilling a 2 , 000 foot hole into the ground , working three or four hour three or four days at a time without any sleep . Thirty seven days later , Plan B succeeded , and the miners were rescued . But because he did not want all of the attention , Brandon was not there when the miners emerged . He had already gone back home , back to work on his next project . And later , one of his employees said of the rescue , We proved that Center Rock is a little company , but we do big things . We do big things . From the earliest days of our founding , America has been the story of ordinary people who dare to dream . That is how we win the future . We are a nation that says , I might not have a lot of money , but I have this great idea for a new company . I might not come from a family of college graduates , but I will be the first to get my degree . I might not know those people in trouble , but I think I can help them , and I need to try . I am not sure how we will reach that better place beyond the horizon , but I know we will get there . I know we will . We do big things . The idea of America endures . Our destiny remains our choice . And tonight , more than two centuries later , it is because of our people that our future is hopeful , our journey goes forward , and the state of our union is strong . Thank you . God bless you , and may God bless the United States of America .<speech_sep>Thank you . Thank you . Thank you very much . Thank you . Please , have a seat . Thank you very much . I want to begin by thanking Hillary Clinton , who has traveled so much these last six months that she is approaching a new landmark one million frequent flyer miles . I count on Hillary every single day , and I believe that she will go down as one of the finest Secretaries of State in our nation s history . The State Department is a fitting venue to mark a new chapter in American diplomacy . For six months , we have witnessed an extraordinary change taking place in the Middle East and North Africa . Square by square , town by town , country by country , the people have risen up to demand their basic human rights . Two leaders have stepped aside . More may follow . And though these countries may be a great distance from our shores , we know that our own future is bound to this region by the forces of economics and security , by history and by faith . Today , I want to talk about this change the forces that are driving it and how we can respond in a way that advances our values and strengthens our security . Now , already , we have done much to shift our foreign policy following a decade defined by two costly conflicts . After years of war in Iraq , we have removed 100 , 000 American troops and ended our combat mission there . In Afghanistan , we have broken the Taliban s momentum , and this July we will begin to bring our troops home and continue a transition to Afghan lead . And after years of war against al Qaeda and its affiliates , we have dealt al Qaeda a huge blow by killing its leader , Osama bin Laden . Bin Laden was no martyr . He was a mass murderer who offered a message of hate an insistence that Muslims had to take up arms against the West , and that violence against men , women and children was the only path to change . He rejected democracy and individual rights for Muslims in favor of violent extremism his agenda focused on what he could destroy not what he could build . Bin Laden and his murderous vision won some adherents . But even before his death , al Qaeda was losing its struggle for relevance , as the overwhelming majority of people saw that the slaughter of innocents did not answer their cries for a better life . By the time we found bin Laden , al Qaeda s agenda had come to be seen by the vast majority of the region as a dead end , and the people of the Middle East and North Africa had taken their future into their own hands . That story of self determination began six months ago in Tunisia . On December 17th , a young vendor named Mohammed Bouazizi was devastated when a police officer confiscated his cart . This was not unique . It is the same kind of humiliation that takes place every day in many parts of the world the relentless tyranny of governments that deny their citizens dignity . Only this time , something different happened . After local officials refused to hear his complaints , this young man , who had never been particularly active in politics , went to the headquarters of the provincial government , doused himself in fuel , and lit himself on fire . There are times in the course of history when the actions of ordinary citizens spark movements for change because they speak to a longing for freedom that has been building up for years . In America , think of the defiance of those patriots in Boston who refused to pay taxes to a King , or the dignity of Rosa Parks as she sat courageously in her seat . So it was in Tunisia , as that vendor s act of desperation tapped into the frustration felt throughout the country . Hundreds of protesters took to the streets , then thousands . And in the face of batons and sometimes bullets , they refused to go home day after day , week after week until a dictator of more than two decades finally left power . The story of this revolution , and the ones that followed , should not have come as a surprise . The nations of the Middle East and North Africa won their independence long ago , but in too many places their people did not . In too many countries , power has been concentrated in the hands of a few . In too many countries , a citizen like that young vendor had nowhere to turn no honest judiciary to hear his case no independent media to give him voice no credible political party to represent his views no free and fair election where he could choose his leader . And this lack of self determination the chance to make your life what you will has applied to the region s economy as well . Yes , some nations are blessed with wealth in oil and gas , and that has led to pockets of prosperity . But in a global economy based on knowledge , based on innovation , no development strategy can be based solely upon what comes out of the ground . Nor can people reach their potential when you cannot start a business without paying a bribe . In the face of these challenges , too many leaders in the region tried to direct their people s grievances elsewhere . The West was blamed as the source of all ills , a half century after the end of colonialism . Antagonism toward Israel became the only acceptable outlet for political expression . Divisions of tribe , ethnicity and religious sect were manipulated as a means of holding on to power , or taking it away from somebody else . But the events of the past six months show us that strategies of repression and strategies of diversion will not work anymore . Satellite television and the Internet provide a window into the wider world a world of astonishing progress in places like India and Indonesia and Brazil . Cell phones and social networks allow young people to connect and organize like never before . And so a new generation has emerged . And their voices tell us that change cannot be denied . In Cairo , we heard the voice of the young mother who said , It is like I can finally breathe fresh air for the first time . In Sanaa , we heard the students who chanted , The night must come to an end . In Benghazi , we heard the engineer who said , Our words are free now . It is a feeling you cannot explain . In Damascus , we heard the young man who said , After the first yelling , the first shout , you feel dignity . Those shouts of human dignity are being heard across the region . And through the moral force of nonviolence , the people of the region have achieved more change in six months than terrorists have accomplished in decades . Of course , change of this magnitude does not come easily . In our day and age a time of 24 hour news cycles and constant communication people expect the transformation of the region to be resolved in a matter of weeks . But it will be years before this story reaches its end . Along the way , there will be good days and there will bad days . In some places , change will be swift in others , gradual . And as we have already seen , calls for change may give way , in some cases , to fierce contests for power . The question before us is what role America will play as this story unfolds . For decades , the United States has pursued a set of core interests in the region countering terrorism and stopping the spread of nuclear weapons securing the free flow of commerce and safe guarding the security of the region standing up for Israel s security and pursuing Arab Israeli peace . We will continue to do these things , with the firm belief that America s interests are not hostile to people s hopes they are essential to them . We believe that no one benefits from a nuclear arms race in the region , or al Qaeda s brutal attacks . We believe people everywhere would see their economies crippled by a cut off in energy supplies . As we did in the Gulf War , we will not tolerate aggression across borders , and we will keep our commitments to friends and partners . Yet we must acknowledge that a strategy based solely upon the narrow pursuit of these interests will not fill an empty stomach or allow someone to speak their mind . Moreover , failure to speak to the broader aspirations of ordinary people will only feed the suspicion that has festered for years that the United States pursues our interests at their expense . Given that this mistrust runs both ways as Americans have been seared by hostage taking and violent rhetoric and terrorist attacks that have killed thousands of our citizens a failure to change our approach threatens a deepening spiral of division between the United States and the Arab world . And that is why , two years ago in Cairo , I began to broaden our engagement based upon mutual interests and mutual respect . I believed then and I believe now that we have a stake not just in the stability of nations , but in the self determination of individuals . The status quo is not sustainable . Societies held together by fear and repression may offer the illusion of stability for a time , but they are built upon fault lines that will eventually tear asunder . So we face a historic opportunity . We have the chance to show that America values the dignity of the street vendor in Tunisia more than the raw power of the dictator . There must be no doubt that the United States of America welcomes change that advances self determination and opportunity . Yes , there will be perils that accompany this moment of promise . But after decades of accepting the world as it is in the region , we have a chance to pursue the world as it should be . Of course , as we do , we must proceed with a sense of humility . It is not America that put people into the streets of Tunis or Cairo it was the people themselves who launched these movements , and it is the people themselves that must ultimately determine their outcome . Not every country will follow our particular form of representative democracy , and there will be times when our short term interests do not align perfectly with our long term vision for the region . But we can , and we will , speak out for a set of core principles principles that have guided our response to the events over the past six months The United States opposes the use of violence and repression against the people of the region . The United States supports a set of universal rights . And these rights include free speech , the freedom of peaceful assembly , the freedom of religion , equality for men and women under the rule of law , and the right to choose your own leaders whether you live in Baghdad or Damascus , Sanaa or Tehran . And we support political and economic reform in the Middle East and North Africa that can meet the legitimate aspirations of ordinary people throughout the region . Our support for these principles is not a secondary interest . Today I want to make it clear that it is a top priority that must be translated into concrete actions , and supported by all of the diplomatic , economic and strategic tools at our disposal . Let me be specific . First , it will be the policy of the United States to promote reform across the region , and to support transitions to democracy . That effort begins in Egypt and Tunisia , where the stakes are high as Tunisia was at the vanguard of this democratic wave , and Egypt is both a longstanding partner and the Arab world s largest nation . Both nations can set a strong example through free and fair elections , a vibrant civil society , accountable and effective democratic institutions , and responsible regional leadership . But our support must also extend to nations where transitions have yet to take place . Unfortunately , in too many countries , calls for change have thus far been answered by violence . The most extreme example is Libya , where Muammar Qaddafi launched a war against his own people , promising to hunt them down like rats . As I said when the United States joined an international coalition to intervene , we cannot prevent every injustice perpetrated by a regime against its people , and we have learned from our experience in Iraq just how costly and difficult it is to try to impose regime change by force no matter how well intentioned it may be . But in Libya , we saw the prospect of imminent massacre , we had a mandate for action , and heard the Libyan people s call for help . Had we not acted along with our NATO allies and regional coalition partners , thousands would have been killed . The message would have been clear Keep power by killing as many people as it takes . Now , time is working against Qaddafi . He does not have control over his country . The opposition has organized a legitimate and credible Interim Council . And when Qaddafi inevitably leaves or is forced from power , decades of provocation will come to an end , and the transition to a democratic Libya can proceed . While Libya has faced violence on the greatest scale , it is not the only place where leaders have turned to repression to remain in power . Most recently , the Syrian regime has chosen the path of murder and the mass arrests of its citizens . The United States has condemned these actions , and working with the international community we have stepped up our sanctions on the Syrian regime including sanctions announced yesterday on President Assad and those around him . The Syrian people have shown their courage in demanding a transition to democracy . President Assad now has a choice He can lead that transition , or get out of the way . The Syrian government must stop shooting demonstrators and allow peaceful protests . It must release political prisoners and stop unjust arrests . It must allow human rights monitors to have access to cities like Dara a and start a serious dialogue to advance a democratic transition . Otherwise , President Assad and his regime will continue to be challenged from within and will continue to be isolated abroad . So far , Syria has followed its Iranian ally , seeking assistance from Tehran in the tactics of suppression . And this speaks to the hypocrisy of the Iranian regime , which says it stand for the rights of protesters abroad , yet represses its own people at home . Let us remember that the first peaceful protests in the region were in the streets of Tehran , where the government brutalized women and men , and threw innocent people into jail . We still hear the chants echo from the rooftops of Tehran . The image of a young woman dying in the streets is still seared in our memory . And we will continue to insist that the Iranian people deserve their universal rights , and a government that does not smother their aspirations . Now , our opposition to Iran s intolerance and Iran s repressive measures , as well as its illicit nuclear program and its support of terror , is well known . But if America is to be credible , we must acknowledge that at times our friends in the region have not all reacted to the demands for consistent change with change that is consistent with the principles that I have outlined today . That is true in Yemen , where President Saleh needs to follow through on his commitment to transfer power . And that is true today in Bahrain . Bahrain is a longstanding partner , and we are committed to its security . We recognize that Iran has tried to take advantage of the turmoil there , and that the Bahraini government has a legitimate interest in the rule of law . Nevertheless , we have insisted both publicly and privately that mass arrests and brute force are at odds with the universal rights of Bahrain s citizens , and we will and such steps will not make legitimate calls for reform go away . The only way forward is for the government and opposition to engage in a dialogue , and you cannot have a real dialogue when parts of the peaceful opposition are in jail . The government must create the conditions for dialogue , and the opposition must participate to forge a just future for all Bahrainis . Indeed , one of the broader lessons to be drawn from this period is that sectarian divides need not lead to conflict . In Iraq , we see the promise of a multiethnic , multisectarian democracy . The Iraqi people have rejected the perils of political violence in favor of a democratic process , even as they have taken full responsibility for their own security . Of course , like all new democracies , they will face setbacks . But Iraq is poised to play a key role in the region if it continues its peaceful progress . And as they do , we will be proud to stand with them as a steadfast partner . So in the months ahead , America must use all our influence to encourage reform in the region . Even as we acknowledge that each country is different , we need to speak honestly about the principles that we believe in , with friend and foe alike . Our message is simple If you take the risks that reform entails , you will have the full support of the United States . We must also build on our efforts to broaden our engagement beyond elites , so that we reach the people who will shape the future particularly young people . We will continue to make good on the commitments that I made in Cairo to build networks of entrepreneurs and expand exchanges in education , to foster cooperation in science and technology , and combat disease . Across the region , we intend to provide assistance to civil society , including those that may not be officially sanctioned , and who speak uncomfortable truths . And we will use the technology to connect with and listen to the voices of the people . For the fact is , real reform does not come at the ballot box alone . Through our efforts we must support those basic rights to speak your mind and access information . We will support open access to the Internet , and the right of journalists to be heard whether it is a big news organization or a lone blogger . In the 21st century , information is power , the truth cannot be hidden , and the legitimacy of governments will ultimately depend on active and informed citizens . Such open discourse is important even if what is said does not square with our worldview . Let me be clear , America respects the right of all peaceful and law abiding voices to be heard , even if we disagree with them . And sometimes we profoundly disagree with them . We look forward to working with all who embrace genuine and inclusive democracy . What we will oppose is an attempt by any group to restrict the rights of others , and to hold power through coercion and not consent . Because democracy depends not only on elections , but also strong and accountable institutions , and the respect for the rights of minorities . Such tolerance is particularly important when it comes to religion . In Tahrir Square , we heard Egyptians from all walks of life chant , Muslims , Christians , we are one . America will work to see that this spirit prevails that all faiths are respected , and that bridges are built among them . In a region that was the birthplace of three world religions , intolerance can lead only to suffering and stagnation . And for this season of change to succeed , Coptic Christians must have the right to worship freely in Cairo , just as Shia must never have their mosques destroyed in Bahrain . What is true for religious minorities is also true when it comes to the rights of women . History shows that countries are more prosperous and more peaceful when women are empowered . And that is why we will continue to insist that universal rights apply to women as well as men by focusing assistance on child and maternal health by helping women to teach , or start a business by standing up for the right of women to have their voices heard , and to run for office . The region will never reach its full potential when more than half of its population is prevented from achieving their full potential . Now , even as we promote political reform , even as we promote human rights in the region , our efforts cannot stop there . So the second way that we must support positive change in the region is through our efforts to advance economic development for nations that are transitioning to democracy . After all , politics alone has not put protesters into the streets . The tipping point for so many people is the more constant concern of putting food on the table and providing for a family . Too many people in the region wake up with few expectations other than making it through the day , perhaps hoping that their luck will change . Throughout the region , many young people have a solid education , but closed economies leave them unable to find a job . Entrepreneurs are brimming with ideas , but corruption leaves them unable to profit from those ideas . The greatest untapped resource in the Middle East and North Africa is the talent of its people . In the recent protests , we see that talent on display , as people harness technology to move the world . It is no coincidence that one of the leaders of Tahrir Square was an executive for Google . That energy now needs to be channeled , in country after country , so that economic growth can solidify the accomplishments of the street . For just as democratic revolutions can be triggered by a lack of individual opportunity , successful democratic transitions depend upon an expansion of growth and broad based prosperity . So , drawing from what we have learned around the world , we think it is important to focus on trade , not just aid on investment , not just assistance . The goal must be a model in which protectionism gives way to openness , the reigns of commerce pass from the few to the many , and the economy generates jobs for the young . America s support for democracy will therefore be based on ensuring financial stability , promoting reform , and integrating competitive markets with each other and the global economy . And we are going to start with Tunisia and Egypt . First , we have asked the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund to present a plan at next week s G8 summit for what needs to be done to stabilize and modernize the economies of Tunisia and Egypt . Together , we must help them recover from the disruptions of their democratic upheaval , and support the governments that will be elected later this year . And we are urging other countries to help Egypt and Tunisia meet its near term financial needs . Second , we do not want a democratic Egypt to be saddled by the debts of its past . So we will relieve a democratic Egypt of up to 1 billion in debt , and work with our Egyptian partners to invest these resources to foster growth and entrepreneurship . We will help Egypt regain access to markets by guaranteeing 1 billion in borrowing that is needed to finance infrastructure and job creation . And we will help newly democratic governments recover assets that were stolen . Third , we are working with Congress to create Enterprise Funds to invest in Tunisia and Egypt . And these will be modeled on funds that supported the transitions in Eastern Europe after the fall of the Berlin Wall . OPIC will soon launch a 2 billion facility to support private investment across the region . And we will work with the allies to refocus the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development so that it provides the same support for democratic transitions and economic modernization in the Middle East and North Africa as it has in Europe . Fourth , the United States will launch a comprehensive Trade and Investment Partnership Initiative in the Middle East and North Africa . If you take out oil exports , this entire region of over 400 million people exports roughly the same amount as Switzerland . So we will work with the EU to facilitate more trade within the region , build on existing agreements to promote integration with and European markets , and open the door for those countries who adopt high standards of reform and trade liberalization to construct a regional trade arrangement . And just as EU membership served as an incentive for reform in Europe , so should the vision of a modern and prosperous economy create a powerful force for reform in the Middle East and North Africa . Prosperity also requires tearing down walls that stand in the way of progress the corruption of elites who steal from their people the red tape that stops an idea from becoming a business the patronage that distributes wealth based on tribe or sect . We will help governments meet international obligations , and invest efforts at anti corruption by working with parliamentarians who are developing reforms , and activists who use technology to increase transparency and hold government accountable . Politics and human rights economic reform . Let me conclude by talking about another cornerstone of our approach to the region , and that relates to the pursuit of peace . For decades , the conflict between Israelis and Arabs has cast a shadow over the region . For Israelis , it has meant living with the fear that their children could be blown up on a bus or by rockets fired at their homes , as well as the pain of knowing that other children in the region are taught to hate them . For Palestinians , it has meant suffering the humiliation of occupation , and never living in a nation of their own . Moreover , this conflict has come with a larger cost to the Middle East , as it impedes partnerships that could bring greater security and prosperity and empowerment to ordinary people . For over two years , my administration has worked with the parties and the international community to end this conflict , building on decades of work by previous administrations . Yet expectations have gone unmet . Israeli settlement activity continues . Palestinians have walked away from talks . The world looks at a conflict that has grinded on and on and on , and sees nothing but stalemate . Indeed , there are those who argue that with all the change and uncertainty in the region , it is simply not possible to move forward now . I disagree . At a time when the people of the Middle East and North Africa are casting off the burdens of the past , the drive for a lasting peace that ends the conflict and resolves all claims is more urgent than ever . That is certainly true for the two parties involved . For the Palestinians , efforts to delegitimize Israel will end in failure . Symbolic actions to isolate Israel at the United Nations in September will not create an independent state . Palestinian leaders will not achieve peace or prosperity if Hamas insists on a path of terror and rejection . And Palestinians will never realize their independence by denying the right of Israel to exist . As for Israel , our friendship is rooted deeply in a shared history and shared values . Our commitment to Israel s security is unshakeable . And we will stand against attempts to single it out for criticism in international forums . But precisely because of our friendship , it is important that we tell the truth The status quo is unsustainable , and Israel too must act boldly to advance a lasting peace . The fact is , a growing number of Palestinians live west of the Jordan River . Technology will make it harder for Israel to defend itself . A region undergoing profound change will lead to populism in which millions of people not just one or two leaders must believe peace is possible . The international community is tired of an endless process that never produces an outcome . The dream of a Jewish and democratic state cannot be fulfilled with permanent occupation . Now , ultimately , it is up to the Israelis and Palestinians to take action . No peace can be imposed upon them not by the United States not by anybody else . But endless delay will not make the problem go away . What America and the international community can do is to state frankly what everyone knows a lasting peace will involve two states for two peoples Israel as a Jewish state and the homeland for the Jewish people , and the state of Palestine as the homeland for the Palestinian people , each state enjoying self determination , mutual recognition , and peace . So while the core issues of the conflict must be negotiated , the basis of those negotiations is clear a viable Palestine , a secure Israel . The United States believes that negotiations should result in two states , with permanent Palestinian borders with Israel , Jordan , and Egypt , and permanent Israeli borders with Palestine . We believe the borders of Israel and Palestine should be based on the 1967 lines with mutually agreed swaps , so that secure and recognized borders are established for both states . The Palestinian people must have the right to govern themselves , and reach their full potential , in a sovereign and contiguous state . As for security , every state has the right to self defense , and Israel must be able to defend itself by itself against any threat . Provisions must also be robust enough to prevent a resurgence of terrorism , to stop the infiltration of weapons , and to provide effective border security . The full and phased withdrawal of Israeli military forces should be coordinated with the assumption of Palestinian security responsibility in a sovereign , non militarized state . And the duration of this transition period must be agreed , and the effectiveness of security arrangements must be demonstrated . These principles provide a foundation for negotiations . Palestinians should know the territorial outlines of their state Israelis should know that their basic security concerns will be met . I am aware that these steps alone will not resolve the conflict , because two wrenching and emotional issues will remain the future of Jerusalem , and the fate of Palestinian refugees . But moving forward now on the basis of territory and security provides a foundation to resolve those two issues in a way that is just and fair , and that respects the rights and aspirations of both Israelis and Palestinians . Now , let me say this Recognizing that negotiations need to begin with the issues of territory and security does not mean that it will be easy to come back to the table . In particular , the recent announcement of an agreement between Fatah and Hamas raises profound and legitimate questions for Israel How can one negotiate with a party that has shown itself unwilling to recognize your right to exist And in the weeks and months to come , Palestinian leaders will have to provide a credible answer to that question . Meanwhile , the United States , our Quartet partners , and the Arab states will need to continue every effort to get beyond the current impasse . I recognize how hard this will be . Suspicion and hostility has been passed on for generations , and at times it has hardened . But I am convinced that the majority of Israelis and Palestinians would rather look to the future than be trapped in the past . We see that spirit in the Israeli father whose son was killed by Hamas , who helped start an organization that brought together Israelis and Palestinians who had lost loved ones . That father said , I gradually realized that the only hope for progress was to recognize the face of the conflict . We see it in the actions of a Palestinian who lost three daughters to Israeli shells in Gaza . I have the right to feel angry , he said . So many people were expecting me to hate . My answer to them is I shall not hate . Let us hope , he said , for tomorrow . That is the choice that must be made not simply in the Israeli Palestinian conflict , but across the entire region a choice between hate and hope between the shackles of the past and the promise of the future . It is a choice that must be made by leaders and by the people , and it is a choice that will define the future of a region that served as the cradle of civilization and a crucible of strife . For all the challenges that lie ahead , we see many reasons to be hopeful . In Egypt , we see it in the efforts of young people who led protests . In Syria , we see it in the courage of those who brave bullets while chanting , peaceful , peaceful . In Benghazi , a city threatened with destruction , we see it in the courthouse square where people gather to celebrate the freedoms that they had never known . Across the region , those rights that we take for granted are being claimed with joy by those who are prying loose the grip of an iron fist . For the American people , the scenes of upheaval in the region may be unsettling , but the forces driving it are not unfamiliar . Our own nation was founded through a rebellion against an empire . Our people fought a painful Civil War that extended freedom and dignity to those who were enslaved . And I would not be standing here today unless past generations turned to the moral force of nonviolence as a way to perfect our union organizing , marching , protesting peacefully together to make real those words that declared our nation We hold these truths to be self evident , that all men are created equal . Those words must guide our response to the change that is transforming the Middle East and North Africa words which tell us that repression will fail , and that tyrants will fall , and that every man and woman is endowed with certain inalienable rights . It will not be easy . There is no straight line to progress , and hardship always accompanies a season of hope . But the United States of America was founded on the belief that people should govern themselves . And now we cannot hesitate to stand squarely on the side of those who are reaching for their rights , knowing that their success will bring about a world that is more peaceful , more stable , and more just . Thank you very much , everybody . Thank you .<speech_sep>Thank you Thank you Thank you so much . It is good to be back in Las Vegas And it is good to be among so many good friends . Let me start off by thanking everybody at Del Sol High School for hosting us . Go Dragons Let me especially thank your outstanding principal , Lisa Primas . There are all kinds of notable guests here , but I just want to mention a few . First of all , our outstanding Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security , Janet Napolitano , is here . Our wonderful Secretary of the Interior , Ken Salazar . Former Secretary of Labor , Hilda Solis . Two of the outstanding members of the congressional delegation from Nevada , Steve Horsford and Dina Titus . Your own mayor , Carolyn Goodman . But we also have some mayors that flew in because they know how important the issue we are going to talk about today is . Marie Lopez Rogers from Avondale , Arizona . Kasim Reed from Atlanta , Georgia . Greg Stanton from Phoenix , Arizona . And Ashley Swearengin from Fresno , California . And all of you are here , as well as some of the top labor leaders in the country . And we are just so grateful . Some outstanding business leaders are here as well . And of course , we have got wonderful students here , so I could not be prouder of our students . Now , those of you have a seat , feel free to take a seat . I do not mind . I love you back . Now , last week , I had the honor of being sworn in for a second term as President of the United States . And during my inaugural address , I talked about how making progress on the defining challenges of our time does not require us to settle every debate or ignore every difference that we may have , but it does require us to find common ground and move forward in common purpose . It requires us to act . I know that some issues will be harder to lift than others . Some debates will be more contentious . That is to be expected . But the reason I came here today is because of a challenge where the differences are dwindling where a broad consensus is emerging and where a call for action can now be heard coming from all across America . I am here today because the time has come for common sense , comprehensive immigration reform . The time is now . Now is the time . Now is the time . Now is the time . Now is the time . I am here because most Americans agree that it is time to fix a system that is been broken for way too long . I am here because business leaders , faith leaders , labor leaders , law enforcement , and leaders from both parties are coming together to say now is the time to find a better way to welcome the striving , hopeful immigrants who still see America as the land of opportunity . Now is the time to do this so we can strengthen our economy and strengthen our country s future . Think about it we define ourselves as a nation of immigrants . That is who we are in our bones . The promise we see in those who come here from every corner of the globe , that is always been one of our greatest strengths . It keeps our workforce young . It keeps our country on the cutting edge . And it is helped build the greatest economic engine the world has ever known . After all , immigrants helped start businesses like Google and Yahoo . They created entire new industries that , in turn , created new jobs and new prosperity for our citizens . In recent years , one in four high tech startups in America were founded by immigrants . One in four new small business owners were immigrants , including right here in Nevada folks who came here seeking opportunity and now want to share that opportunity with other Americans . But we all know that today , we have an immigration system that is out of date and badly broken a system that is holding us back instead of helping us grow our economy and strengthen our middle class . Right now , we have 11 million undocumented immigrants in America 11 million men and women from all over the world who live their lives in the shadows . Yes , they broke the rules . They crossed the border illegally . Maybe they overstayed their visas . Those are facts . Nobody disputes them . But these 11 million men and women are now here . Many of them have been here for years . And the overwhelming majority of these individuals are not looking for any trouble . They are contributing members of the community . They are looking out for their families . They are looking out for their neighbors . They are woven into the fabric of our lives . Every day , like the rest of us , they go out and try to earn a living . Often they do that in a shadow economy a place where employers may offer them less than the minimum wage or make them work overtime without extra pay . And when that happens , it is not just bad for them , it is bad for the entire economy . Because all the businesses that are trying to do the right thing that are hiring people legally , paying a decent wage , following the rules they are the ones who suffer . They have got to compete against companies that are breaking the rules . And the wages and working conditions of American workers are threatened , too . So if we are truly committed to strengthening our middle class and providing more ladders of opportunity to those who are willing to work hard to make it into the middle class , we have got to fix the system . We have to make sure that every business and every worker in America is playing by the same set of rules . We have to bring this shadow economy into the light so that everybody is held accountable businesses for who they hire , and immigrants for getting on the right side of the law . That is common sense . And that is why we need comprehensive immigration reform . There is another economic reason why we need reform . It is not just about the folks who come here illegally and have the effect they have on our economy . It is also about the folks who try to come here legally but have a hard time doing so , and the effect that has on our economy . Right now , there are brilliant students from all over the world sitting in classrooms at our top universities . They are earning degrees in the fields of the future , like engineering and computer science . But once they finish school , once they earn that diploma , there is a good chance they will have to leave our country . Think about that . Intel was started with the help of an immigrant who studied here and then stayed here . Instagram was started with the help of an immigrant who studied here and then stayed here . Right now in one of those classrooms , there is a student wrestling with how to turn their big idea their Intel or Instagram into a big business . We are giving them all the skills they need to figure that out , but then we are going to turn around and tell them to start that business and create those jobs in China or India or Mexico or someplace else That is not how you grow new industries in America . That is how you give new industries to our competitors . That is why we need comprehensive immigration reform . Now , during my first term , we took steps to try and patch up some of the worst cracks in the system . First , we strengthened security at the borders so that we could finally stem the tide of illegal immigrants . We put more boots on the ground on the southern border than at any time in our history . And today , illegal crossings are down nearly 80 percent from their peak in 2000 . Second , we focused our enforcement efforts on criminals who are here illegally and who endanger our communities . And today , deportations of criminals is at its highest level ever . And third , we took up the cause of the DREAMers the young people who were brought to this country as children , young people who have grown up here , built their lives here , have futures here . We said that if you are able to meet some basic criteria like pursuing an education , then we will consider offering you the chance to come out of the shadows so that you can live here and work here legally , so that you can finally have the dignity of knowing you belong . But because this change is not permanent , we need Congress to act and not just on the DREAM Act . We need Congress to act on a comprehensive approach that finally deals with the 11 million undocumented immigrants who are in the country right now . That is what we need . Now , the good news is that for the first time in many years , Republicans and Democrats seem ready to tackle this problem together . Members of both parties , in both chambers , are actively working on a solution . Yesterday , a bipartisan group of senators announced their principles for comprehensive immigration reform , which are very much in line with the principles I have proposed and campaigned on for the last few years . So at this moment , it looks like there is a genuine desire to get this done soon , and that is very encouraging . But this time , action must follow . We cannot allow immigration reform to get bogged down in an endless debate . We have been debating this a very long time . So it is not as if we do not know technically what needs to get done . As a consequence , to help move this process along , today I am laying out my ideas for immigration reform . And my hope is that this provides some key markers to members of Congress as they craft a bill , because the ideas I am proposing have traditionally been supported by both Democrats like Ted Kennedy and Republicans like President George Bush . You do not get that matchup very often . So we know where the consensus should be . Now , of course , there will be rigorous debate about many of the details , and every stakeholder should engage in real give and take in the process . But it is important for us to recognize that the foundation for bipartisan action is already in place . And if Congress is unable to move forward in a timely fashion , I will send up a bill based on my proposal and insist that they vote on it right away . So the principles are pretty straightforward . There are a lot of details behind it . We are going to hand out a bunch of paper so that everybody will know exactly what we are talking about . But the principles are pretty straightforward . First , I believe we need to stay focused on enforcement . That means continuing to strengthen security at our borders . It means cracking down more forcefully on businesses that knowingly hire undocumented workers . To be fair , most businesses want to do the right thing , but a lot of them have a hard time figuring out who is here legally , who is not . So we need to implement a national system that allows businesses to quickly and accurately verify someone s employment status . And if they still knowingly hire undocumented workers , then we need to ramp up the penalties . Second , we have to deal with the 11 million individuals who are here illegally . We all agree that these men and women should have to earn their way to citizenship . But for comprehensive immigration reform to work , it must be clear from the outset that there is a pathway to citizenship . We have got to lay out a path a process that includes passing a background check , paying taxes , paying a penalty , learning English , and then going to the back of the line , behind all the folks who are trying to come here legally . That is only fair , right So that means it will not be a quick process but it will be a fair process . And it will lift these individuals out of the shadows and give them a chance to earn their way to a green card and eventually to citizenship . And the third principle is we have got to bring our legal immigration system into the 21st century because it no longer reflects the realities of our time . For example , if you are a citizen , you should not have to wait years before your family is able to join you in America . You should not have to wait years . If you are a foreign student who wants to pursue a career in science or technology , or a foreign entrepreneur who wants to start a business with the backing of American investors , we should help you do that here . Because if you succeed , you will create American businesses and American jobs . You will help us grow our economy . You will help us strengthen our middle class . So that is what comprehensive immigration reform looks like smarter enforcement a pathway to earned citizenship improvements in the legal immigration system so that we continue to be a magnet for the best and the brightest all around the world . It is pretty straightforward . The question now is simple Do we have the resolve as a people , as a country , as a government to finally put this issue behind us I believe that we do . I believe that we do . I believe we are finally at a moment where comprehensive immigration reform is within our grasp . But I promise you this The closer we get , the more emotional this debate is going to become . Immigration has always been an issue that enflames passions . That is not surprising . There are few things that are more important to us as a society than who gets to come here and call our country home who gets the privilege of becoming a citizen of the United States of America . That is a big deal . When we talk about that in the abstract , it is easy sometimes for the discussion to take on a feeling of us versus them . And when that happens , a lot of folks forget that most of us used to be them . We forget that . It is really important for us to remember our history . Unless you are one of the first Americans , a Native American , you came from someplace else . Somebody brought you . Ken Salazar , he is of Mexican American descent , but he points that his family has been living where he lives for 400 years , so he did not immigrate anywhere . The Irish who left behind a land of famine . The Germans who fled persecution . The Scandinavians who arrived eager to pioneer out west . The Polish . The Russians . The Italians . The Chinese . The Japanese . The West Indians . The huddled masses who came through Ellis Island on one coast and Angel Island on the other . All those folks , before they were us , they were them . And when each new wave of immigrants arrived , they faced resistance from those who were already here . They faced hardship . They faced racism . They faced ridicule . But over time , as they went about their daily lives , as they earned a living , as they raised a family , as they built a community , as their kids went to school here , they did their part to build a nation . They were the Einsteins and the Carnegies . But they were also the millions of women and men whose names history may not remember , but whose actions helped make us who we are who built this country hand by hand , brick by brick . They all came here knowing that what makes somebody an American is not just blood or birth , but allegiance to our founding principles and the faith in the idea that anyone from anywhere can write the next great chapter of our story . And that is still true today . Just ask Alan Aleman . Alan is here this afternoon where is Alan He is around here there he is right here . Alan was born in Mexico . He was brought to this country by his parents when he was a child . Growing up , Alan went to an American school , pledged allegiance to the American flag , felt American in every way and he was , except for one on paper . In high school , Alan watched his friends come of age driving around town with their new licenses , earning some extra cash from their summer jobs at the mall . He knew he could not do those things . But it did not matter that much . What mattered to Alan was earning an education so that he could live up to his God given potential . Last year , when Alan heard the news that we were going to offer a chance for folks like him to emerge from the shadows even if it is just for two years at a time he was one of the first to sign up . And a few months ago he was one of the first people in Nevada to get approved . In that moment , Alan said , I felt the fear vanish . I felt accepted . So today , Alan is in his second year at the College of Southern Nevada . Alan is studying to become a doctor . He hopes to join the Air Force . He is working hard every single day to build a better life for himself and his family . And all he wants is the opportunity to do his part to build a better America . So in the coming weeks , as the idea of reform becomes more real and the debate becomes more heated , and there are folks who are trying to pull this thing apart , remember Alan and all those who share the same hopes and the same dreams . Remember that this is not just a debate about policy . It is about people . It is about men and women and young people who want nothing more than the chance to earn their way into the American story . Throughout our history , that has only made our nation stronger . And it is how we will make sure that this century is the same as the last an American century welcoming of everybody who aspires to do something more , and who is willing to work hard to do it , and is willing to pledge that allegiance to our flag . Thank you . God bless you . And God bless the United States of America .<speech_sep>Thank you . Thank you , everybody . Thank you so much . Please , please have a seat . Thank you so much . Well , thank you , Neera , for the wonderful introduction and sharing a story that resonated with me . There were a lot of parallels in my life and probably resonated with some of you . Over the past 10 years , the Center for American Progress has done incredible work to shape the debate over expanding opportunity for all Americans . And I could not be more grateful to CAP not only for giving me a lot of good policy ideas , but also giving me a lot of staff . My friend , John Podesta , ran my transition my Chief of Staff , Denis McDonough , did a stint at CASo you guys are obviously doing a good job training folks . I also want to thank all the members of Congress and my administration who are here today for the wonderful work that they do . I want to thank Mayor Gray and everyone here at THEARC for having me . This center , which I have been to quite a bit , have had a chance to see some of the great work that is done here . And all the nonprofits that call THEARC home offer access to everything from education , to health care , to a safe shelter from the streets , which means that you are harnessing the power of community to expand opportunity for folks here in And your work reflects a tradition that runs through our history a belief that we are greater together than we are on our own . And that is what I have come here to talk about today . Over the last two months , Washington has been dominated by some pretty contentious debates I think that is fair to say . And between a reckless shutdown by congressional Republicans in an effort to repeal the Affordable Care Act , and admittedly poor execution on my administration s part in implementing the latest stage of the new law , nobody has acquitted themselves very well these past few months . So it is not surprising that the American people s frustrations with Washington are at an all time high . But we know that people s frustrations run deeper than these most recent political battles . Their frustration is rooted in their own daily battles to make ends meet , to pay for college , buy a home , save for retirement . It is rooted in the nagging sense that no matter how hard they work , the deck is stacked against them . And it is rooted in the fear that their kids will not be better off than they were . They may not follow the constant back and forth in Washington or all the policy details , but they experience in a very personal way the relentless , decades long trend that I want to spend some time talking about today . And that is a dangerous and growing inequality and lack of upward mobility that has jeopardized middle class America s basic bargain that if you work hard , you have a chance to get ahead . I believe this is the defining challenge of our time Making sure our economy works for every working American . It is why I ran for President . It was at the center of last year s campaign . It drives everything I do in this office . And I know I have raised this issue before , and some will ask why I raise the issue again right now . I do it because the outcomes of the debates we are having right now whether it is health care , or the budget , or reforming our housing and financial systems all these things will have real , practical implications for every American . And I am convinced that the decisions we make on these issues over the next few years will determine whether or not our children will grow up in an America where opportunity is real . Now , the premise that we are all created equal is the opening line in the American story . And while we do not promise equal outcomes , we have strived to deliver equal opportunity the idea that success does not depend on being born into wealth or privilege , it depends on effort and merit . And with every chapter we have added to that story , we have worked hard to put those words into practice . It was Abraham Lincoln , a self described poor man s son , who started a system of land grant colleges all over this country so that any poor man s son could go learn something new . When farms gave way to factories , a rich man s son named Teddy Roosevelt fought for an eight hour workday , protections for workers , and busted monopolies that kept prices high and wages low . When millions lived in poverty , FDR fought for Social Security , and insurance for the unemployed , and a minimum wage . When millions died without health insurance , LBJ fought for Medicare and Medicaid . Together , we forged a New Deal , declared a War on Poverty in a great society . We built a ladder of opportunity to climb , and stretched out a safety net beneath so that if we fell , it would not be too far , and we could bounce back . And as a result , America built the largest middle class the world has ever known . And for the three decades after World War Iit was the engine of our prosperity . Now , we cannot look at the past through rose colored glasses . The economy did not always work for everyone . Racial discrimination locked millions out of poverty or out of opportunity . Women were too often confined to a handful of often poorly paid professions . And it was only through painstaking struggle that more women , and minorities , and Americans with disabilities began to win the right to more fairly and fully participate in the economy . Nevertheless , during the post World War II years , the economic ground felt stable and secure for most Americans , and the future looked brighter than the past . And for some , that meant following in your old man s footsteps at the local plant , and you knew that a blue collar job would let you buy a home , and a car , maybe a vacation once in a while , health care , a reliable pension . For others , it meant going to college in some cases , maybe the first in your family to go to college . And it meant graduating without taking on loads of debt , and being able to count on advancement through a vibrant job market . Now , it is true that those at the top , even in those years , claimed a much larger share of income than the rest The top 10 percent consistently took home about one third of our national income . But that kind of inequality took place in a dynamic market economy where everyone s wages and incomes were growing . And because of upward mobility , the guy on the factory floor could picture his kid running the company some day . But starting in the late 70s , this social compact began to unravel . Technology made it easier for companies to do more with less , eliminating certain job occupations . A more competitive world lets companies ship jobs anywhere . And as good manufacturing jobs automated or headed offshore , workers lost their leverage , jobs paid less and offered fewer benefits . As values of community broke down , and competitive pressure increased , businesses lobbied Washington to weaken unions and the value of the minimum wage . As a trickle down ideology became more prominent , taxes were slashed for the wealthiest , while investments in things that make us all richer , like schools and infrastructure , were allowed to wither . And for a certain period of time , we could ignore this weakening economic foundation , in part because more families were relying on two earners as women entered the workforce . We took on more debt financed by a juiced up housing market . But when the music stopped , and the crisis hit , millions of families were stripped of whatever cushion they had left . And the result is an economy that is become profoundly unequal , and families that are more insecure . I will just give you a few statistics . Since 1979 , when I graduated from high school , our productivity is up by more than 90 percent , but the income of the typical family has increased by less than eight percent . Since 1979 , our economy has more than doubled in size , but most of that growth has flowed to a fortunate few . The top 10 percent no longer takes in one third of our income it now takes half . Whereas in the past , the average CEO made about 20 to 30 times the income of the average worker , today s CEO now makes 273 times more . And meanwhile , a family in the top 1 percent has a net worth 288 times higher than the typical family , which is a record for this country . So the basic bargain at the heart of our economy has frayed . In fact , this trend towards growing inequality is not unique to America s market economy . Across the developed world , inequality has increased . Some of you may have seen just last week , the Pope himself spoke about this at eloquent length . How can it be , he wrote , that it is not a news item when an elderly homeless person dies of exposure , but it is news when the stock market loses two points But this increasing inequality is most pronounced in our country , and it challenges the very essence of who we are as a people . Understand we have never begrudged success in America . We aspire to it . We admire folks who start new businesses , create jobs , and invent the products that enrich our lives . And we expect them to be rewarded handsomely for it . In fact , we have often accepted more income inequality than many other nations for one big reason because we were convinced that America is a place where even if you are born with nothing , with a little hard work you can improve your own situation over time and build something better to leave your kids . As Lincoln once said , While we do not propose any war upon capital , we do wish to allow the humblest man an equal chance to get rich with everybody else . The problem is that alongside increased inequality , we have seen diminished levels of upward mobility in recent years . A child born in the top 20 percent has about a 2 in 3 chance of staying at or near the top . A child born into the bottom 20 percent has a less than 1 in 20 shot at making it to the top . He is 10 times likelier to stay where he is . In fact , statistics show not only that our levels of income inequality rank near countries like Jamaica and Argentina , but that it is harder today for a child born here in America to improve her station in life than it is for children in most of our wealthy allies countries like Canada or Germany or France . They have greater mobility than we do , not less . The idea that so many children are born into poverty in the wealthiest nation on Earth is heartbreaking enough . But the idea that a child may never be able to escape that poverty because she lacks a decent education or health care , or a community that views her future as their own , that should offend all of us and it should compel us to action . We are a better country than this . So let me repeat The combined trends of increased inequality and decreasing mobility pose a fundamental threat to the American Dream , our way of life , and what we stand for around the globe . And it is not simply a moral claim that I am making here . There are practical consequences to rising inequality and reduced mobility . For one thing , these trends are bad for our economy . One study finds that growth is more fragile and recessions are more frequent in countries with greater inequality . And that makes sense . When families have less to spend , that means businesses have fewer customers , and households rack up greater mortgage and credit card debt meanwhile , concentrated wealth at the top is less likely to result in the kind of broadly based consumer spending that drives our economy , and together with lax regulation , may contribute to risky speculative bubbles . And rising inequality and declining mobility are also bad for our families and social cohesion not just because we tend to trust our institutions less , but studies show we actually tend to trust each other less when there is greater inequality . And greater inequality is associated with less mobility between generations . That means it is not just temporary the effects last . It creates a vicious cycle . For example , by the time she turns three years old , a child born into a low income home hears 30 million fewer words than a child from a well off family , which means by the time she starts school she is already behind , and that deficit can compound itself over time . And finally , rising inequality and declining mobility are bad for our democracy . Ordinary folks cannot write massive campaign checks or hire high priced lobbyists and lawyers to secure policies that tilt the playing field in their favor at everyone else s expense . And so people get the bad taste that the system is rigged , and that increases cynicism and polarization , and it decreases the political participation that is a requisite part of our system of self government . So this is an issue that we have to tackle head on . And if , in fact , the majority of Americans agree that our number one priority is to restore opportunity and broad based growth for all Americans , the question is why has Washington consistently failed to act And I think a big reason is the myths that have developed around the issue of inequality . First , there is the myth that this is a problem restricted to a small share of predominantly minority poor that this is not a broad based problem , this is a black problem or a Hispanic problem or a Native American problem . Now , it is true that the painful legacy of discrimination means that African Americans , Latinos , Native Americans are far more likely to suffer from a lack of opportunity higher unemployment , higher poverty rates . It is also true that women still make 77 cents on the dollar compared to men . So we are going to need strong application of antidiscrimination laws . We are going to need immigration reform that grows the economy and takes people out of the shadows . We are going to need targeted initiatives to close those gaps . But here s an important point . The decades long shifts in the economy have hurt all groups poor and middle class inner city and rural folks men and women and Americans of all races . And as a consequence , some of the social patterns that contribute to declining mobility that were once attributed to the urban poor that is a particular problem for the inner city single parent households or drug abuse it turns out now we are seeing that pop up everywhere . A new study shows that disparities in education , mental health , obesity , absent fathers , isolation from church , isolation from community groups these gaps are now as much about growing up rich or poor as they are about anything else . The gap in test scores between poor kids and wealthy kids is now nearly twice what it is between white kids and black kids . Kids with working class parents are 10 times likelier than kids with middle or upper class parents to go through a time when their parents have no income . So the fact is this The opportunity gap in America is now as much about class as it is about race , and that gap is growing . So if we are going to take on growing inequality and try to improve upward mobility for all people , we have got to move beyond the false notion that this is an issue exclusively of minority concern . And we have to reject a politics that suggests any effort to address it in a meaningful way somehow pits the interests of a deserving middle class against those of an undeserving poor in search of handouts . Second , we need to dispel the myth that the goals of growing the economy and reducing inequality are necessarily in conflict , when they should actually work in concert . We know from our history that our economy grows best from the middle out , when growth is more widely shared . And we know that beyond a certain level of inequality , growth actually slows altogether . Third , we need to set aside the belief that government cannot do anything about reducing inequality . It is true that government cannot prevent all the downsides of the technological change and global competition that are out there right now , and some of those forces are also some of the things that are helping us grow . And it is also true that some programs in the past , like welfare before it was reformed , were sometimes poorly designed , created disincentives to work . But we have also seen how government action time and again can make an enormous difference in increasing opportunity and bolstering ladders into the middle class . Investments in education , laws establishing collective bargaining , and a minimum wage these all contributed to rising standards of living for massive numbers of Americans . Likewise , when previous generations declared that every citizen of this country deserved a basic measure of security a floor through which they could not fall we helped millions of Americans live in dignity , and gave millions more the confidence to aspire to something better , by taking a risk on a great idea . Without Social Security , nearly half of seniors would be living in poverty half . Today , fewer than 1 in 10 do . Before Medicare , only half of all seniors had some form of health insurance . Today , virtually all do . And because we have strengthened that safety net , and expanded pro work and pro family tax credits like the Earned Income Tax Credit , a recent study found that the poverty rate has fallen by 40 percent since the 1960s . And these endeavors did not just make us a better country they reaffirmed that we are a great country . So we can make a difference on this . In fact , that is our generation s task to rebuild America s economic and civic foundation to continue the expansion of opportunity for this generation and the next generation . And like Neera , I take this personally . I am only here because this country educated my grandfather on the GI Bill . When my father left and my mom hit hard times trying to raise my sister and me while she was going to school , this country helped make sure we did not go hungry . When Michelle , the daughter of a shift worker at a water plant and a secretary , wanted to go to college , just like me , this country helped us afford it until we could pay it back . So what drives me as a grandson , a son , a father as an American is to make sure that every striving , hardworking , optimistic kid in America has the same incredible chance that this country gave me . It has been the driving force between everything we have done these past five years . And over the course of the next year , and for the rest of my presidency , that is where you should expect my administration to focus all our efforts . Now , you will be pleased to know this is not a State of the Union Address . And many of the ideas that can make the biggest difference in expanding opportunity I have presented before . But let me offer a few key principles , just a roadmap that I believe should guide us in both our legislative agenda and our administrative efforts . To begin with , we have to continue to relentlessly push a growth agenda . It may be true that in today s economy , growth alone does not guarantee higher wages and incomes . We have seen that . But what is also true is we cannot tackle inequality if the economic pie is shrinking or stagnant . The fact is if you are a progressive and you want to help the middle class and the working poor , you have still got to be concerned about competitiveness and productivity and business confidence that spurs private sector investment . And that is why from day one we have worked to get the economy growing and help our businesses hire . And thanks to their resilience and innovation , they have created nearly 8 million new jobs over the past 44 months . And now we have got to grow the economy even faster . And we have got to keep working to make America a magnet for good , middle class jobs to replace the ones that we have lost in recent decades jobs in manufacturing and energy and infrastructure and technology . And that means simplifying our corporate tax code in a way that closes wasteful loopholes and ends incentives to ship jobs overseas . And by broadening the base , we can actually lower rates to encourage more companies to hire here and use some of the money we save to create good jobs rebuilding our roads and our bridges and our airports , and all the infrastructure our businesses need . It means a trade agenda that grows exports and works for the middle class . It means streamlining regulations that are outdated or unnecessary or too costly . And it means coming together around a responsible budget one that grows our economy faster right now and shrinks our long term deficits , one that unwinds the harmful sequester cuts that have not made a lot of sense and then frees up resources to invest in things like the scientific research that is always unleashed new innovation and new industries . When it comes to our budget , we should not be stuck in a stale debate from two years ago or three years ago . A relentlessly growing deficit of opportunity is a bigger threat to our future than our rapidly shrinking fiscal deficit . So that is step one towards restoring mobility making sure our economy is growing faster . Step two is making sure we empower more Americans with the skills and education they need to compete in a highly competitive global economy . We know that education is the most important predictor of income today , so we launched a Race to the Top in our schools . We are supporting states that have raised standards for teaching and learning . We are pushing for redesigned high schools that graduate more kids with the technical training and apprenticeships , and in demand , high tech skills that can lead directly to a good job and a middle class life . We know it is harder to find a job today without some higher education , so we have helped more students go to college with grants and loans that go farther than before . We have made it more practical to repay those loans . And today , more students are graduating from college than ever before . We are also pursuing an aggressive strategy to promote innovation that reins in tuition costs . We have got lower costs so that young people are not burdened by enormous debt when they make the right decision to get higher education . And next week , Michelle and I will bring together college presidents and non profits to lead a campaign to help more low income students attend and succeed in college . But while higher education may be the surest path to the middle class , it is not the only one . So we should offer our people the best technical education in the world . That is why we have worked to connect local businesses with community colleges , so that workers young and old can earn the new skills that earn them more money . And I have also embraced an idea that I know all of you at the Center for American Progress have championed and , by the way , Republican governors in a couple of states have championed and that is making high quality preschool available to every child in America . We know that kids in these programs grow up likelier to get more education , earn higher wages , form more stable families of their own . It starts a virtuous cycle , not a vicious one . And we should invest in that . We should give all of our children that chance . And as we empower our young people for future success , the third part of this middle class economics is empowering our workers . It is time to ensure our collective bargaining laws function as they are supposed to so unions have a level playing field to organize for a better deal for workers and better wages for the middle class . It is time to pass the Paycheck Fairness Act so that women will have more tools to fight pay discrimination . It is time to pass the Employment Non Discrimination Act so workers cannot be fired for who they are or who they love . And even though we are bringing manufacturing jobs back to America , we are creating more good paying jobs in education and health care and business services we know that we are going to have a greater and greater portion of our people in the service sector . And we know that there are airport workers , and fast food workers , and nurse assistants , and retail salespeople who work their tails off and are still living at or barely above poverty . And that is why it is well past the time to raise a minimum wage that in real terms right now is below where it was when Harry Truman was in office . This should not be an ideological question . It was Adam Smith , the father of free market economics , who once said , They who feed , clothe , and lodge the whole body of the people should have such a share of the produce of their own labor as to be themselves tolerably well fed , clothed , and lodged . And for those of you who do not speak old English let me translate . It means if you work hard , you should make a decent living . If you work hard , you should be able to support a family . Now , we all know the arguments that have been used against a higher minimum wage . Some say it actually hurts low wage workers businesses will be less likely to hire them . But there is no solid evidence that a higher minimum wage costs jobs , and research shows it raises incomes for low wage workers and boosts short term economic growth . Others argue that if we raise the minimum wage , companies will just pass those costs on to consumers . But a growing chorus of businesses , small and large , argue differently . And already , there are extraordinary companies in America that provide decent wages , salaries , and benefits , and training for their workers , and deliver a great product to consumers . SAS in North Carolina offers childcare and sick leave . REa company my Secretary of the Interior used to run , offers retirement plans and strives to cultivate a good work balance . There are companies out there that do right by their workers . They recognize that paying a decent wage actually helps their bottom line , reduces turnover . It means workers have more money to spend , to save , maybe eventually start a business of their own . A broad majority of Americans agree we should raise the minimum wage . That is why , last month , voters in New Jersey decided to become the 20th state to raise theirs even higher . That is why , yesterday , the Council voted to do it , too . I agree with those voters . I agree with those voters , and I am going to keep pushing until we get a higher minimum wage for hard working Americans across the entire country . It will be good for our economy . It will be good for our families . Number four , as I alluded to earlier , we still need targeted programs for the communities and workers that have been hit hardest by economic change and the Great Recession . These communities are no longer limited to the inner city . They are found in neighborhoods hammered by the housing crisis , manufacturing towns hit hard by years of plants packing up , landlocked rural areas where young folks oftentimes feel like they have got to leave just to find a job . There are communities that just are not generating enough jobs anymore . So we have put forward new plans to help these communities and their residents , because we have watched cities like Pittsburgh or my hometown of Chicago revamp themselves . And if we give more cities the tools to do it not handouts , but a hand up cities like Detroit can do it , too . So in a few weeks , we will announce the first of these Promise Zones , urban and rural communities where we are going to support local efforts focused on a national goal and that is a child s course in life should not be determined by the zip code he is born in , but by the strength of his work ethic and the scope of his dreams . And we are also going to have to do more for the long term unemployed . For people who have been out of work for more than six months , often through no fault of their own , life is a catch 22 . Companies will not give their r eacute sum eacute an honest look because they have been laid off so long but they have been laid off so long because companies will not give their r eacute sum eacute an honest look . And that is why earlier this year , I challenged CEOs from some of America s best companies to give these Americans a fair shot . And next month , many of them will join us at the White House for an announcement about this . Fifth , we have got to revamp retirement to protect Americans in their golden years , to make sure another housing collapse does not steal the savings in their homes . We have also got to strengthen our safety net for a new age , so it does not just protect people who hit a run of bad luck from falling into poverty , but also propels them back out of poverty . Today , nearly half of full time workers and 80 percent of part time workers do not have a pension or retirement account at their job . About half of all households do not have any retirement savings . So we are going to have to do more to encourage private savings and shore up the promise of Social Security for future generations . And remember , these are promises we make to one another . We do not do it to replace the free market , but we do it to reduce risk in our society by giving people the ability to take a chance and catch them if they fall . One study shows that more than half of Americans will experience poverty at some point during their adult lives . Think about that . This is not an isolated situation . More than half of Americans at some point in their lives will experience poverty . That is why we have nutrition assistance or the program known as SNAbecause it makes a difference for a mother who is working , but is just having a hard time putting food on the table for her kids . That is why we have unemployment insurance , because it makes a difference for a father who lost his job and is out there looking for a new one that he can keep a roof over his kids heads . By the way , Christmastime is no time for Congress to tell more than 1 million of these Americans that they have lost their unemployment insurance , which is what will happen if Congress does not act before they leave on their holiday vacation . The point is these programs are not typically hammocks for people to just lie back and relax . These programs are almost always temporary means for hardworking people to stay afloat while they try to find a new job or go into school to retrain themselves for the jobs that are out there , or sometimes just to cope with a bout of bad luck . Progressives should be open to reforms that actually strengthen these programs and make them more responsive to a 21st century economy . For example , we should be willing to look at fresh ideas to revamp unemployment and disability programs to encourage faster and higher rates of re employment without cutting benefits . We should not weaken fundamental protections built over generations , because given the constant churn in today s economy and the disabilities that many of our friends and neighbors live with , they are needed more than ever . We should strengthen them and adapt them to new circumstances so they work even better . But understand that these programs of social insurance benefit all of us , because we do not know when we might have a run of bad luck . We do not know when we might lose a job . Of course , for decades , there was one yawning gap in the safety net that did more than anything else to expose working families to the insecurities of today s economy namely , our broken health care system . That is why we fought for the Affordable Care Act because 14 , 000 Americans lost their health insurance every single day , and even more died each year because they did not have health insurance at all . We did it because millions of families who thought they had coverage were driven into bankruptcy by out of pocket costs that they did not realize would be there . Tens of millions of our fellow citizens could not get any coverage at all . And King once said , Of all the forms of inequality , injustice in health care is the most shocking and inhumane . Well , not anymore . Because in the three years since we passed this law , the share of Americans with insurance is up , the growth of health care costs are down to their slowest rate in 50 years . More people have insurance , and more have new benefits and protections 100 million Americans who have gained the right for free preventive care like mammograms and contraception the more than 7 million Americans who have saved an average of 1 , 200 on their prescription medicine every American who will not go broke when they get sick because their insurance cannot limit their care anymore . More people without insurance have gained insurance more than 3 million young Americans who have been able to stay on their parents plan , the more than half a million Americans and counting who are poised to get covered starting on January 1st , some for the very first time . And it is these numbers not the ones in any poll that will ultimately determine the fate of this law . It is the measurable outcomes in reduced bankruptcies and reduced hours that have been lost because somebody could not make it to work , and healthier kids with better performance in schools , and young entrepreneurs who have the freedom to go out there and try a new idea those are the things that will ultimately reduce a major source of inequality and help ensure more Americans get the start that they need to succeed in the future . I have acknowledged more than once that we did not roll out parts of this law as well as we should have . But the law is already working in major ways that benefit millions of Americans right now , even as we have begun to slow the rise in health care costs , which is good for family budgets , good for federal and state budgets , and good for the budgets of businesses small and large . So this law is going to work . And for the sake of our economic security , it needs to work . And as people in states as different as California and Kentucky sign up every single day for health insurance , signing up in droves , they are proving they want that economic security . If the Senate Republican leader still thinks he is going to be able to repeal this someday , he might want to check with the more than 60 , 000 people in his home state who are already set to finally have coverage that frees them from the fear of financial ruin , and lets them afford to take their kids to see a doctor . So let me end by addressing the elephant in the room here , which is the seeming inability to get anything done in Washington these days . I realize we are not going to resolve all of our political debates over the best ways to reduce inequality and increase upward mobility this year , or next year , or in the next five years . But it is important that we have a serious debate about these issues . For the longer that current trends are allowed to continue , the more it will feed the cynicism and fear that many Americans are feeling right now that they will never be able to repay the debt they took on to go to college , they will never be able to save enough to retire , they will never see their own children land a good job that supports a family . And that is why , even as I will keep on offering my own ideas for expanding opportunity , I will also keep challenging and welcoming those who oppose my ideas to offer their own . If Republicans have concrete plans that will actually reduce inequality , build the middle class , provide more ladders of opportunity to the poor , let us hear them . I want to know what they are . If you do not think we should raise the minimum wage , let us hear your idea to increase people s earnings . If you do not think every child should have access to preschool , tell us what you had do differently to give them a better shot . If you still do not like Obamacare and I know you do not even though it is built on market based ideas of choice and competition in the private sector , then you should explain how , exactly , you had cut costs , and cover more people , and make insurance more secure . You owe it to the American people to tell us what you are for , not just what you are against . That way we can have a vigorous and meaningful debate . That is what the American people deserve . That is what the times demand . It is not enough anymore to just say we should just get our government out of the way and let the unfettered market take care of it for our experience tells us that is just not true . Look , I have never believed that government can solve every problem or should and neither do you . We know that ultimately our strength is grounded in our people individuals out there , striving , working , making things happen . It depends on community , a rich and generous sense of community that is at the core of what happens at THEARC here every day . You understand that turning back rising inequality and expanding opportunity requires parents taking responsibility for their kids , kids taking responsibility to work hard . It requires religious leaders who mobilize their congregations to rebuild neighborhoods block by block , requires civic organizations that can help train the unemployed , link them with businesses for the jobs of the future . It requires companies and CEOs to set an example by providing decent wages , and salaries , and benefits for their workers , and a shot for somebody who is down on his or her luck . We know that is our strength our people , our communities , our businesses . But government cannot stand on the sidelines in our efforts . Because government is us . It can and should reflect our deepest values and commitments . And if we refocus our energies on building an economy that grows for everybody , and gives every child in this country a fair chance at success , then I remain confident that the future still looks brighter than the past , and that the best days for this country we love are still ahead . Thank you , everybody . God bless you . God bless America .<speech_sep>Your Majesties , Your Royal Highnesses , distinguished members of the Norwegian Nobel Committee , citizens of America , and citizens of the world I receive this honor with deep gratitude and great humility . It is an award that speaks to our highest aspirations that for all the cruelty and hardship of our world , we are not mere prisoners of fate . Our actions matter , and can bend history in the direction of justice . And yet I would be remiss if I did not acknowledge the considerable controversy that your generous decision has generated . In part , this is because I am at the beginning , and not the end , of my labors on the world stage . Compared to some of the giants of history who have received this prize Schweitzer and King Marshall and Mandela my accomplishments are slight . And then there are the men and women around the world who have been jailed and beaten in the pursuit of justice those who toil in humanitarian organizations to relieve suffering the unrecognized millions whose quiet acts of courage and compassion inspire even the most hardened cynics . I cannot argue with those who find these men and women some known , some obscure to all but those they help to be far more deserving of this honor than I . But perhaps the most profound issue surrounding my receipt of this prize is the fact that I am the Commander in Chief of the military of a nation in the midst of two wars . One of these wars is winding down . The other is a conflict that America did not seek one in which we are joined by 42 other countries including Norway in an effort to defend ourselves and all nations from further attacks . Still , we are at war , and I am responsible for the deployment of thousands of young Americans to battle in a distant land . Some will kill , and some will be killed . And so I come here with an acute sense of the costs of armed conflict filled with difficult questions about the relationship between war and peace , and our effort to replace one with the other . Now these questions are not new . War , in one form or another , appeared with the first man . At the dawn of history , its morality was not questioned it was simply a fact , like drought or disease the manner in which tribes and then civilizations sought power and settled their differences . And over time , as codes of law sought to control violence within groups , so did philosophers and clerics and statesmen seek to regulate the destructive power of war . The concept of a just war emerged , suggesting that war is justified only when certain conditions were met if it is waged as a last resort or in self defense if the force used is proportional and if , whenever possible , civilians are spared from violence . Of course , we know that for most of history , this concept of just war was rarely observed . The capacity of human beings to think up new ways to kill one another proved inexhaustible , as did our capacity to exempt from mercy those who look different or pray to a different God . Wars between armies gave way to wars between nations total wars in which the distinction between combatant and civilian became blurred . In the span of 30 years , such carnage would twice engulf this continent . And while it is hard to conceive of a cause more just than the defeat of the Third Reich and the Axis powers , World War II was a conflict in which the total number of civilians who died exceeded the number of soldiers who perished . In the wake of such destruction , and with the advent of the nuclear age , it became clear to victor and vanquished alike that the world needed institutions to prevent another world war . And so , a quarter century after the United States Senate rejected the League of Nations an idea for which Woodrow Wilson received this prize America led the world in constructing an architecture to keep the peace a Marshall Plan and a United Nations , mechanisms to govern the waging of war , treaties to protect human rights , prevent genocide , restrict the most dangerous weapons . In many ways , these efforts succeeded . Yes , terrible wars have been fought , and atrocities committed . But there has been no Third World War . The Cold War ended with jubilant crowds dismantling a wall . Commerce has stitched much of the world together . Billions have been lifted from poverty . The ideals of liberty and self determination , equality and the rule of law have haltingly advanced . We are the heirs of the fortitude and foresight of generations past , and it is a legacy for which my own country is rightfully proud . And yet , a decade into a new century , this old architecture is buckling under the weight of new threats . The world may no longer shudder at the prospect of war between two nuclear superpowers , but proliferation may increase the risk of catastrophe . Terrorism has long been a tactic , but modern technology allows a few small men with outsized rage to murder innocents on a horrific scale . Moreover , wars between nations have increasingly given way to wars within nations . The resurgence of ethnic or sectarian conflicts the growth of secessionist movements , insurgencies , and failed states all these things have increasingly trapped civilians in unending chaos . In today s wars , many more civilians are killed than soldiers the seeds of future conflict are sown , economies are wrecked , civil societies torn asunder , refugees amassed , children scarred . I do not bring with me today a definitive solution to the problems of war . What I do know is that meeting these challenges will require the same vision , hard work , and persistence of those men and women who acted so boldly decades ago . And it will require us to think in new ways about the notions of just war and the imperatives of a just peace . We must begin by acknowledging the hard truth We will not eradicate violent conflict in our lifetimes . There will be times when nations acting individually or in concert will find the use of force not only necessary but morally justified . I make this statement mindful of what Martin Luther King said in this same ceremony years ago Violence never brings permanent peace . It solves no social problem it merely creates new and more complicated ones . As someone who stands here as a direct consequence of King s life work , I am living testimony to the moral force of non violence . I know there is nothing weak nothing passive nothing na iuml ve in the creed and lives of Gandhi and King . But as a head of state sworn to protect and defend my nation , I cannot be guided by their examples alone . I face the world as it is , and cannot stand idle in the face of threats to the American people . For make no mistake Evil does exist in the world . A non violent movement could not have halted Hitler s armies . Negotiations cannot convince al Qaeda s leaders to lay down their arms . To say that force may sometimes be necessary is not a call to cynicism it is a recognition of history the imperfections of man and the limits of reason . I raise this point , I begin with this point because in many countries there is a deep ambivalence about military action today , no matter what the cause . And at times , this is joined by a reflexive suspicion of America , the world s sole military superpower . But the world must remember that it was not simply international institutions not just treaties and declarations that brought stability to a post World War II world . Whatever mistakes we have made , the plain fact is this The United States of America has helped underwrite global security for more than six decades with the blood of our citizens and the strength of our arms . The service and sacrifice of our men and women in uniform has promoted peace and prosperity from Germany to Korea , and enabled democracy to take hold in places like the Balkans . We have borne this burden not because we seek to impose our will . We have done so out of enlightened self interest because we seek a better future for our children and grandchildren , and we believe that their lives will be better if others children and grandchildren can live in freedom and prosperity . So yes , the instruments of war do have a role to play in preserving the peace . And yet this truth must coexist with another that no matter how justified , war promises human tragedy . The soldier s courage and sacrifice is full of glory , expressing devotion to country , to cause , to comrades in arms . But war itself is never glorious , and we must never trumpet it as such . So part of our challenge is reconciling these two seemingly inreconcilable truths that war is sometimes necessary , and war at some level is an expression of human folly . Concretely , we must direct our effort to the task that President Kennedy called for long ago . Let us focus , he said , on a more practical , more attainable peace , based not on a sudden revolution in human nature but on a gradual evolution in human institutions . A gradual evolution of human institutions . What might this evolution look like What might these practical steps be To begin with , I believe that all nations strong and weak alike must adhere to standards that govern the use of force . I like any head of state reserve the right to act unilaterally if necessary to defend my nation . Nevertheless , I am convinced that adhering to standards , international standards , strengthens those who do , and isolates and weakens those who do not . The world rallied around America after the 9 11 attacks , and continues to support our efforts in Afghanistan , because of the horror of those senseless attacks and the recognized principle of self defense . Likewise , the world recognized the need to confront Saddam Hussein when he invaded Kuwait a consensus that sent a clear message to all about the cost of aggression . Furthermore , America in fact , no nation can insist that others follow the rules of the road if we refuse to follow them ourselves . For when we do not , our actions appear arbitrary and undercut the legitimacy of future interventions , no matter how justified . And this becomes particularly important when the purpose of military action extends beyond self defense or the defense of one nation against an aggressor . More and more , we all confront difficult questions about how to prevent the slaughter of civilians by their own government , or to stop a civil war whose violence and suffering can engulf an entire region . I believe that force can be justified on humanitarian grounds , as it was in the Balkans , or in other places that have been scarred by war . Inaction tears at our conscience and can lead to more costly intervention later . That is why all responsible nations must embrace the role that militaries with a clear mandate can play to keep the peace . America s commitment to global security will never waver . But in a world in which threats are more diffuse , and missions more complex , America cannot act alone . America alone cannot secure the peace . This is true in Afghanistan . This is true in failed states like Somalia , where terrorism and piracy is joined by famine and human suffering . And sadly , it will continue to be true in unstable regions for years to come . The leaders and soldiers of NATO countries , and other friends and allies , demonstrate this truth through the capacity and courage they have shown in Afghanistan . But in many countries , there is a disconnect between the efforts of those who serve and the ambivalence of the broader public . I understand why war is not popular , but I also know this The belief that peace is desirable is rarely enough to achieve it . Peace requires responsibility . Peace entails sacrifice . That is why NATO continues to be indispensable . That is why we must strengthen and regional peacekeeping , and not leave the task to a few countries . That is why we honor those who return home from peacekeeping and training abroad to Oslo and Rome to Ottawa and Sydney to Dhaka and Kigali we honor them not as makers of war , but of wagers but as wagers of peace . Let me make one final point about the use of force . Even as we make difficult decisions about going to war , we must also think clearly about how we fight it . The Nobel Committee recognized this truth in awarding its first prize for peace to Henry Dunant the founder of the Red Cross , and a driving force behind the Geneva Conventions . Where force is necessary , we have a moral and strategic interest in binding ourselves to certain rules of conduct . And even as we confront a vicious adversary that abides by no rules , I believe the United States of America must remain a standard bearer in the conduct of war . That is what makes us different from those whom we fight . That is a source of our strength . That is why I prohibited torture . That is why I ordered the prison at Guantanamo Bay closed . And that is why I have reaffirmed America s commitment to abide by the Geneva Conventions . We lose ourselves when we compromise the very ideals that we fight to defend . And we honor we honor those ideals by upholding them not when it is easy , but when it is hard . I have spoken at some length to the question that must weigh on our minds and our hearts as we choose to wage war . But let me now turn to our effort to avoid such tragic choices , and speak of three ways that we can build a just and lasting peace . First , in dealing with those nations that break rules and laws , I believe that we must develop alternatives to violence that are tough enough to actually change behavior for if we want a lasting peace , then the words of the international community must mean something . Those regimes that break the rules must be held accountable . Sanctions must exact a real price . Intransigence must be met with increased pressure and such pressure exists only when the world stands together as one . One urgent example is the effort to prevent the spread of nuclear weapons , and to seek a world without them . In the middle of the last century , nations agreed to be bound by a treaty whose bargain is clear All will have access to peaceful nuclear power those without nuclear weapons will forsake them and those with nuclear weapons will work towards disarmament . I am committed to upholding this treaty . It is a centerpiece of my foreign policy . And I am working with President Medvedev to reduce America and Russia s nuclear stockpiles . But it is also incumbent upon all of us to insist that nations like Iran and North Korea do not game the system . Those who claim to respect international law cannot avert their eyes when those laws are flouted . Those who care for their own security cannot ignore the danger of an arms race in the Middle East or East Asia . Those who seek peace cannot stand idly by as nations arm themselves for nuclear war . The same principle applies to those who violate international laws by brutalizing their own people . When there is genocide in Darfur , systematic rape in Congo , repression in Burma there must be consequences . Yes , there will be engagement yes , there will be diplomacy but there must be consequences when those things fail . And the closer we stand together , the less likely we will be faced with the choice between armed intervention and complicity in oppression . This brings me to a second point the nature of the peace that we seek . For peace is not merely the absence of visible conflict . Only a just peace based on the inherent rights and dignity of every individual can truly be lasting . It was this insight that drove drafters of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights after the Second World War . In the wake of devastation , they recognized that if human rights are not protected , peace is a hollow promise . And yet too often , these words are ignored . For some countries , the failure to uphold human rights is excused by the false suggestion that these are somehow Western principles , foreign to local cultures or stages of a nation s development . And within America , there has long been a tension between those who describe themselves as realists or idealists a tension that suggests a stark choice between the narrow pursuit of interests or an endless campaign to impose our values around the world . I reject these choices . I believe that peace is unstable where citizens are denied the right to speak freely or worship as they please choose their own leaders or assemble without fear . Pent up grievances fester , and the suppression of tribal and religious identity can lead to violence . We also know that the opposite is true . Only when Europe became free did it finally find peace . America has never fought a war against a democracy , and our closest friends are governments that protect the rights of their citizens . No matter how callously defined , neither America s interests nor the world s are served by the denial of human aspirations . So even as we respect the unique culture and traditions of different countries , America will always be a voice for those aspirations that are universal . We will bear witness to the quiet dignity of reformers like Aung Sang Suu Kyi to the bravery of Zimbabweans who cast their ballots in the face of beatings to the hundreds of thousands who have marched silently through the streets of Iran . It is telling that the leaders of these governments fear the aspirations of their own people more than the power of any other nation . And it is the responsibility of all free people and free nations to make clear that these movements these movements of hope and history they have us on their side . Let me also say this The promotion of human rights cannot be about exhortation alone . At times , it must be coupled with painstaking diplomacy . I know that engagement with repressive regimes lacks the satisfying purity of indignation . But I also know that sanctions without outreach condemnation without discussion can carry forward only a crippling status quo . No repressive regime can move down a new path unless it has the choice of an open door . In light of the Cultural Revolution s horrors , Nixon s meeting with Mao appeared inexcusable and yet it surely helped set China on a path where millions of its citizens have been lifted from poverty and connected to open societies . Pope John Paul s engagement with Poland created space not just for the Catholic Church , but for labor leaders like Lech Walesa . Ronald Reagan s efforts on arms control and embrace of perestroika not only improved relations with the Soviet Union , but empowered dissidents throughout Eastern Europe . There is no simple formula here . But we must try as best we can to balance isolation and engagement , pressure and incentives , so that human rights and dignity are advanced over time . Third , a just peace includes not only civil and political rights it must encompass economic security and opportunity . For true peace is not just freedom from fear , but freedom from want . It is undoubtedly true that development rarely takes root without security it is also true that security does not exist where human beings do not have access to enough food , or clean water , or the medicine and shelter they need to survive . It does not exist where children cannot aspire to a decent education or a job that supports a family . The absence of hope can rot a society from within . And that is why helping farmers feed their own people or nations educate their children and care for the sick is not mere charity . It is also why the world must come together to confront climate change . There is little scientific dispute that if we do nothing , we will face more drought , more famine , more mass displacement all of which will fuel more conflict for decades . For this reason , it is not merely scientists and environmental activists who call for swift and forceful action it is military leaders in my own country and others who understand our common security hangs in the balance . Agreements among nations . Strong institutions . Support for human rights . Investments in development . All these are vital ingredients in bringing about the evolution that President Kennedy spoke about . And yet , I do not believe that we will have the will , the determination , the staying power , to complete this work without something more and that is the continued expansion of our moral imagination an insistence that there is something irreducible that we all share . As the world grows smaller , you might think it would be easier for human beings to recognize how similar we are to understand that we are all basically seeking the same things that we all hope for the chance to live out our lives with some measure of happiness and fulfillment for ourselves and our families . And yet somehow , given the dizzying pace of globalization , the cultural leveling of modernity , it perhaps comes as no surprise that people fear the loss of what they cherish in their particular identities their race , their tribe , and perhaps most powerfully their religion . In some places , this fear has led to conflict . At times , it even feels like we are moving backwards . We see it in the Middle East , as the conflict between Arabs and Jews seems to harden . We see it in nations that are torn asunder by tribal lines . And most dangerously , we see it in the way that religion is used to justify the murder of innocents by those who have distorted and defiled the great religion of Islam , and who attacked my country from Afghanistan . These extremists are not the first to kill in the name of God the cruelties of the Crusades are amply recorded . But they remind us that no Holy War can ever be a just war . For if you truly believe that you are carrying out divine will , then there is no need for restraint no need to spare the pregnant mother , or the medic , or the Red Cross worker , or even a person of one s own faith . Such a warped view of religion is not just incompatible with the concept of peace , but I believe it is incompatible with the very purpose of faith for the one rule that lies at the heart of every major religion is that we do unto others as we would have them do unto us . Adhering to this law of love has always been the core struggle of human nature . For we are fallible . We make mistakes , and fall victim to the temptations of pride , and power , and sometimes evil . Even those of us with the best of intentions will at times fail to right the wrongs before us . But we do not have to think that human nature is perfect for us to still believe that the human condition can be perfected . We do not have to live in an idealized world to still reach for those ideals that will make it a better place . The non violence practiced by men like Gandhi and King may not have been practical or possible in every circumstance , but the love that they preached their fundamental faith in human progress that must always be the North Star that guides us on our journey . For if we lose that faith if we dismiss it as silly or na iuml ve if we divorce it from the decisions that we make on issues of war and peace then we lose what is best about humanity . We lose our sense of possibility . We lose our moral compass . Like generations have before us , we must reject that future . As King said at this occasion so many years ago , I refuse to accept despair as the final response to the ambiguities of history . I refuse to accept the idea that the isness of man s present condition makes him morally incapable of reaching up for the eternal oughtness that forever confronts him . Let us reach for the world that ought to be that spark of the divine that still stirs within each of our souls . Somewhere today , in the here and now , in the world as it is , a soldier sees he is outgunned , but stands firm to keep the peace . Somewhere today , in this world , a young protestor awaits the brutality of her government , but has the courage to march on . Somewhere today , a mother facing punishing poverty still takes the time to teach her child , scrapes together what few coins she has to send that child to school because she believes that a cruel world still has a place for that child s dreams . Let us live by their example . We can acknowledge that oppression will always be with us , and still strive for justice . We can admit the intractability of depravation , and still strive for dignity . Clear eyed , we can understand that there will be war , and still strive for peace . We can do that for that is the story of human progress that is the hope of all the world and at this moment of challenge , that must be our work here on Earth . Thank you very much .<speech_sep>Thank you very much . Thank you . My Lord Chancellor , Speaker , Prime Minister , my lords , and members of the House of Commons I have known few greater honors than the opportunity to address the Mother of Parliaments at Westminster Hall . I am told that the last three speakers here have been the Pope , Her Majesty the Queen , and Nelson Mandela which is either a very high bar or the beginning of a very funny joke . I come here today to reaffirm one of the oldest , one of the strongest alliances the world has ever known . It is long been said that the United States and the United Kingdom share a special relationship . And since we also share an especially active press corps , that relationship is often analyzed and overanalyzed for the slightest hint of stress or strain . Of course , all relationships have their ups and downs . Admittedly , ours got off on the wrong foot with a small scrape about tea and taxes . There may also have been some hurt feelings when the White House was set on fire during the War of 1812 . But fortunately , it is been smooth sailing ever since . The reason for this close friendship does not just have to do with our shared history , our shared heritage our ties of language and culture or even the strong partnership between our governments . Our relationship is special because of the values and beliefs that have united our people through the ages . Centuries ago , when kings , emperors , and warlords reigned over much of the world , it was the English who first spelled out the rights and liberties of man in the Magna Carta . It was here , in this very hall , where the rule of law first developed , courts were established , disputes were settled , and citizens came to petition their leaders . Over time , the people of this nation waged a long and sometimes bloody struggle to expand and secure their freedom from the crown . Propelled by the ideals of the Enlightenment , they would ultimately forge an English Bill of Rights , and invest the power to govern in an elected parliament that is gathered here today . What began on this island would inspire millions throughout the continent of Europe and across the world . But perhaps no one drew greater inspiration from these notions of freedom than your rabble rousing colonists on the other side of the Atlantic . As Winston Churchill said , the hellip Magna Carta , the Bill of Rights , Habeas Corpus , trial by jury , and English common law find their most famous expression in the American Declaration of Independence . For both of our nations , living up to the ideals enshrined in these founding documents has sometimes been difficult , has always been a work in progress . The path has never been perfect . But through the struggles of slaves and immigrants , women and ethnic minorities , former colonies and persecuted religions , we have learned better than most that the longing for freedom and human dignity is not English or American or Western it is universal , and it beats in every heart . Perhaps that is why there are few nations that stand firmer , speak louder , and fight harder to defend democratic values around the world than the United States and the United Kingdom . We are the allies who landed at Omaha and Gold , who sacrificed side by side to free a continent from the march of tyranny , and help prosperity flourish from the ruins of war . And with the founding of NATO a British idea we joined a transatlantic alliance that has ensured our security for over half a century . Together with our allies , we forged a lasting peace from a cold war . When the Iron Curtain lifted , we expanded our alliance to include the nations of Central and Eastern Europe , and built new bridges to Russia and the former states of the Soviet Union . And when there was strife in the Balkans , we worked together to keep the peace . Today , after a difficult decade that began with war and ended in recession , our nations have arrived at a pivotal moment once more . A global economy that once stood on the brink of depression is now stable and recovering . After years of conflict , the United States has removed 100 , 000 troops from Iraq , the United Kingdom has removed its forces , and our combat mission there has ended . In Afghanistan , we have broken the Taliban s momentum and will soon begin a transition to Afghan lead . And nearly 10 years after 9 11 , we have disrupted terrorist networks and dealt al Qaeda a huge blow by killing its leader Osama bin Laden . Together , we have met great challenges . But as we enter this new chapter in our shared history , profound challenges stretch before us . In a world where the prosperity of all nations is now inextricably linked , a new era of cooperation is required to ensure the growth and stability of the global economy . As new threats spread across borders and oceans , we must dismantle terrorist networks and stop the spread of nuclear weapons , confront climate change and combat famine and disease . And as a revolution races through the streets of the Middle East and North Africa , the entire world has a stake in the aspirations of a generation that longs to determine its own destiny . These challenges come at a time when the international order has already been reshaped for a new century . Countries like China , India , and Brazil are growing by leaps and bounds . We should welcome this development , for it has lifted hundreds of millions from poverty around the globe , and created new markets and opportunities for our own nations . And yet , as this rapid change has taken place , it is become fashionable in some quarters to question whether the rise of these nations will accompany the decline of American and European influence around the world . Perhaps , the argument goes , these nations represent the future , and the time for our leadership has passed . That argument is wrong . The time for our leadership is now . It was the United States and the United Kingdom and our democratic allies that shaped a world in which new nations could emerge and individuals could thrive . And even as more nations take on the responsibilities of global leadership , our alliance will remain indispensable to the goal of a century that is more peaceful , more prosperous and more just . At a time when threats and challenges require nations to work in concert with one another , we remain the greatest catalysts for global action . In an era defined by the rapid flow of commerce and information , it is our free market tradition , our openness , fortified by our commitment to basic security for our citizens , that offers the best chance of prosperity that is both strong and shared . As millions are still denied their basic human rights because of who they are , or what they believe , or the kind of government that they live under , we are the nations most willing to stand up for the values of tolerance and self determination that lead to peace and dignity . Now , this does not mean we can afford to stand still . The nature of our leadership will need to change with the times . As I said the first time I came to London as President , for the G20 summit , the days are gone when Roosevelt and Churchill could sit in a room and solve the world s problems over a glass of brandy although I am sure that Prime Minister Cameron would agree that some days we could both use a stiff drink . In this century , our joint leadership will require building new partnerships , adapting to new circumstances , and remaking ourselves to meet the demands of a new era . That begins with our economic leadership . Adam Smith s central insight remains true today There is no greater generator of wealth and innovation than a system of free enterprise that unleashes the full potential of individual men and women . That is what led to the Industrial Revolution that began in the factories of Manchester . That is what led to the dawn of the Information Age that arose from the office parks of Silicon Valley . That is why countries like China , India and Brazil are growing so rapidly because in fits and starts , they are moving toward market based principles that the United States and the United Kingdom have always embraced . In other words , we live in a global economy that is largely of our own making . And today , the competition for the best jobs and industries favors countries that are free thinking and forward looking countries with the most creative and innovative and entrepreneurial citizens . That gives nations like the United States and the United Kingdom an inherent advantage . For from Newton and Darwin to Edison and Einstein , from Alan Turing to Steve Jobs , we have led the world in our commitment to science and cutting edge research , the discovery of new medicines and technologies . We educate our citizens and train our workers in the best colleges and universities on Earth . But to maintain this advantage in a world that is more competitive than ever , we will have to redouble our investments in science and engineering , and renew our national commitments to educating our workforces . We have also been reminded in the last few years that markets can sometimes fail . In the last century , both our nations put in place regulatory frameworks to deal with such market failures safeguards to protect the banking system after the Great Depression , for example regulations that were established to prevent the pollution of our air and water during the 1970s . But in today s economy , such threats of market failure can no longer be contained within the borders of any one country . Market failures can go global , and go viral , and demand international responses . A financial crisis that began on Wall Street infected nearly every continent , which is why we must keep working through forums like the G20 to put in place global rules of the road to prevent future excesses and abuse . No country can hide from the dangers of carbon pollution , which is why we must build on what was achieved at Copenhagen and Cancun to leave our children a planet that is safer and cleaner . Moreover , even when the free market works as it should , both our countries recognize that no matter how responsibly we live in our lives , hard times or bad luck , a crippling illness or a layoff may strike any one of us . And so part of our common tradition has expressed itself in a conviction that every citizen deserves a basic measure of security health care if you get sick , unemployment insurance if you lose your job , a dignified retirement after a lifetime of hard work . That commitment to our citizens has also been the reason for our leadership in the world . And now , having come through a terrible recession , our challenge is to meet these obligations while ensuring that we are not consuming and hence consumed with a level of debt that could sap the strength and vitality of our economies . And that will require difficult choices and it will require different paths for both of our countries . But we have faced such challenges before , and have always been able to balance the need for fiscal responsibility with the responsibilities we have to one another . And I believe we can do this again . As we do , the successes and failures of our own past can serve as an example for emerging economies that it is possible to grow without polluting that lasting prosperity comes not from what a nation consumes , but from what it produces , and from the investments it makes in its people and its infrastructure . And just as we must lead on behalf of the prosperity of our citizens , so we must safeguard their security . Our two nations know what it is to confront evil in the world . Hitler s armies would not have stopped their killing had we not fought them on the beaches and on the landing grounds , in the fields and on the streets . We must never forget that there was nothing inevitable about our victory in that terrible war . It was won through the courage and character of our people . Precisely because we are willing to bear its burden , we know well the cost of war . And that is why we built an alliance that was strong enough to defend this continent while deterring our enemies . At its core , NATO is rooted in the simple concept of Article Five that no NATO nation will have to fend on its own that allies will stand by one another , always . And for six decades , NATO has been the most successful alliance in human history . Today , we confront a different enemy . Terrorists have taken the lives of our citizens in New York and in London . And while al Qaeda seeks a religious war with the West , we must remember that they have killed thousands of Muslims men , women and children around the globe . Our nations are not and will never be at war with Islam . Our fight is focused on defeating al Qaeda and its extremist allies . In that effort , we will not relent , as Osama bin Laden and his followers have learned . And as we fight an enemy that respects no law of war , we will continue to hold ourselves to a higher standard by living up to the values , the rule of law and due process that we so ardently defend . For almost a decade , Afghanistan has been a central front of these efforts . Throughout those years , you , the British people , have been a stalwart ally , along with so many others who fight by our side . Together , let us pay tribute to all of our men and women who have served and sacrificed over the last several years for they are part of an unbroken line of heroes who have borne the heaviest burden for the freedoms that we enjoy . Because of them , we have broken the Taliban s momentum . Because of them , we have built the capacity of Afghan security forces . And because of them , we are now preparing to turn a corner in Afghanistan by transitioning to Afghan lead . And during this transition , we will pursue a lasting peace with those who break free of al Qaeda and respect the Afghan constitution and lay down arms . And we will ensure that Afghanistan is never a safe haven for terror , but is instead a country that is strong , sovereign , and able to stand on its own two feet . Indeed , our efforts in this young century have led us to a new concept for NATO that will give us the capabilities needed to meet new threats threats like terrorism and piracy , cyber attacks and ballistic missiles . But a revitalized NATO will continue to hew to that original vision of its founders , allowing us to rally collective action for the defense of our people , while building upon the broader belief of Roosevelt and Churchill that all nations have both rights and responsibilities , and all nations share a common interest in an international architecture that maintains the peace . We also share a common interest in stopping the spread of nuclear weapons . Across the globe , nations are locking down nuclear materials so they never fall into the wrong hands because of our leadership . From North Korea to Iran , we have sent a message that those who flaunt their obligations will face consequences which is why America and the European Union just recently strengthened our sanctions on Iran , in large part because of the leadership of the United Kingdom and the United States . And while we hold others to account , we will meet our own obligations under the Non Proliferation Treaty , and strive for a world without nuclear weapons . We share a common interest in resolving conflicts that prolong human suffering and threaten to tear whole regions asunder . In Sudan , after years of war and thousands of deaths , we call on both North and South to pull back from the brink of violence and choose the path of peace . And in the Middle East , we stand united in our support for a secure Israel and a sovereign Palestine . And we share a common interest in development that advances dignity and security . To succeed , we must cast aside the impulse to look at impoverished parts of the globe as a place for charity . Instead , we should empower the same forces that have allowed our own people to thrive We should help the hungry to feed themselves , the doctors who care for the sick . We should support countries that confront corruption , and allow their people to innovate . And we should advance the truth that nations prosper when they allow women and girls to reach their full potential . We do these things because we believe not simply in the rights of nations we believe in the rights of citizens . That is the beacon that guided us through our fight against fascism and our twilight struggle against communism . And today , that idea is being put to the test in the Middle East and North Africa . In country after country , people are mobilizing to free themselves from the grip of an iron fist . And while these movements for change are just six months old , we have seen them play out before from Eastern Europe to the Americas , from South Africa to Southeast Asia . History tells us that democracy is not easy . It will be years before these revolutions reach their conclusion , and there will be difficult days along the way . Power rarely gives up without a fight particularly in places where there are divisions of tribe and divisions of sect . We also know that populism can take dangerous turns from the extremism of those who would use democracy to deny minority rights , to the nationalism that left so many scars on this continent in the 20th century . But make no mistake What we saw , what we are seeing in Tehran , in Tunis , in Tahrir Square , is a longing for the same freedoms that we take for granted here at home . It was a rejection of the notion that people in certain parts of the world do not want to be free , or need to have democracy imposed upon them . It was a rebuke to the worldview of al Qaeda , which smothers the rights of individuals , and would thereby subject them to perpetual poverty and violence . Let there be no doubt The United States and United Kingdom stand squarely on the side of those who long to be free . And now , we must show that we will back up those words with deeds . That means investing in the future of those nations that transition to democracy , starting with Tunisia and Egypt by deepening ties of trade and commerce by helping them demonstrate that freedom brings prosperity . And that means standing up for universal rights by sanctioning those who pursue repression , strengthening civil society , supporting the rights of minorities . We do this knowing that the West must overcome suspicion and mistrust among many in the Middle East and North Africa a mistrust that is rooted in a difficult past . For years , we have faced charges of hypocrisy from those who do not enjoy the freedoms that they hear us espouse . And so to them , we must squarely acknowledge that , yes , we have enduring interests in the region to fight terror , sometimes with partners who may not be perfect to protect against disruptions of the world s energy supply . But we must also insist that we reject as false the choice between our interests and our ideals between stability and democracy . For our idealism is rooted in the realities of history that repression offers only the false promise of stability , that societies are more successful when their citizens are free , and that democracies are the closest allies we have . It is that truth that guides our action in Libya . It would have been easy at the outset of the crackdown in Libya to say that none of this was our business that a nation s sovereignty is more important than the slaughter of civilians within its borders . That argument carries weight with some . But we are different . We embrace a broader responsibility . And while we cannot stop every injustice , there are circumstances that cut through our caution when a leader is threatening to massacre his people , and the international community is calling for action . That is why we stopped a massacre in Libya . And we will not relent until the people of Libya are protected and the shadow of tyranny is lifted . We will proceed with humility , and the knowledge that we cannot dictate every outcome abroad . Ultimately , freedom must be won by the people themselves , not imposed from without . But we can and must stand with those who so struggle . Because we have always believed that the future of our children and grandchildren will be better if other people s children and grandchildren are more prosperous and more free from the beaches of Normandy to the Balkans to Benghazi . That is our interests and our ideals . And if we fail to meet that responsibility , who would take our place , and what kind of world would we pass on Our action our leadership is essential to the cause of human dignity . And so we must act and lead with confidence in our ideals , and an abiding faith in the character of our people , who sent us all here today . For there is one final quality that I believe makes the United States and the United Kingdom indispensable to this moment in history . And that is how we define ourselves as nations . Unlike most countries in the world , we do not define citizenship based on race or ethnicity . Being American or British is not about belonging to a certain group it is about believing in a certain set of ideals the rights of individuals , the rule of law . That is why we hold incredible diversity within our borders . That is why there are people around the world right now who believe that if they come to America , if they come to New York , if they come to London , if they work hard , they can pledge allegiance to our flag and call themselves Americans if they come to England , they can make a new life for themselves and can sing God Save The Queen just like any other citizen . Yes , our diversity can lead to tension . And throughout our history there have been heated debates about immigration and assimilation in both of our countries . But even as these debates can be difficult , we fundamentally recognize that our patchwork heritage is an enormous strength that in a world which will only grow smaller and more interconnected , the example of our two nations says it is possible for people to be united by their ideals , instead of divided by their differences that it is possible for hearts to change and old hatreds to pass that it is possible for the sons and daughters of former colonies to sit here as members of this great Parliament , and for the grandson of a Kenyan who served as a cook in the British Army to stand before you as President of the United States . That is what defines us . That is why the young men and women in the streets of Damascus and Cairo still reach for the rights our citizens enjoy , even if they sometimes differ with our policies . As two of the most powerful nations in the history of the world , we must always remember that the true source of our influence has not just been the size of our economies , or the reach of our militaries , or the land that we have claimed . It has been the values that we must never waver in defending around the world the idea that all beings are endowed by our Creator with certain rights that cannot be denied . That is what forged our bond in the fire of war a bond made manifest by the friendship between two of our greatest leaders . Churchill and Roosevelt had their differences . They were keen observers of each other s blind spots and shortcomings , if not always their own , and they were hard headed about their ability to remake the world . But what joined the fates of these two men at that particular moment in history was not simply a shared interest in victory on the battlefield . It was a shared belief in the ultimate triumph of human freedom and human dignity a conviction that we have a say in how this story ends . This conviction lives on in their people today . The challenges we face are great . The work before us is hard . But we have come through a difficult decade , and whenever the tests and trials ahead may seem too big or too many , let us turn to their example , and the words that Churchill spoke on the day that Europe was freed In the long years to come , not only will the people of this island but hellip the world , wherever the bird of freedom chirps in human heart , look back to what we have done , and they will say do not despair , do not yield hellip march straightforward . With courage and purpose , with humility and with hope , with faith in the promise of tomorrow , let us march straightforward together , enduring allies in the cause of a world that is more peaceful , more prosperous , and more just . Thank you very much .<speech_sep>It is fitting that with the very first bill I sign the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Restoration Act we are upholding one of this nation s first principles that we are all created equal and each deserve a chance to pursue our own version of happiness . It is also fitting that we are joined today by the woman after whom this bill is named someone Michelle and I have had the privilege of getting to know for ourselves . Lilly Ledbetter did not set out to be a trailblazer or a household name . She was just a good hard worker who did her job and did it well for nearly two decades before discovering that for years , she was paid less than her male colleagues for the very same work . Over the course of her career , she lost more than 200 , 000 in salary , and even more in pension and Social Security benefits losses she still feels today . Now , Lilly could have accepted her lot and moved on . She could have decided that it was not worth the hassle and harassment that would inevitably come with speaking up for what she deserved . But instead , she decided that there was a principle at stake , something worth fighting for . So she set out on a journey that would take more than ten years , take her all the way to the Supreme Court , and lead to this bill which will help others get the justice she was denied . Because while this bill bears her name , Lilly knows this story is not just about her . It is the story of women across this country still earning just 78 cents for every dollar men earn women of color even less which means that today , in the year 2009 , countless women are still losing thousands of dollars in salary , income and retirement savings over the course of a lifetime . But equal pay is by no means just a women s issue it is a family issue . It is about parents who find themselves with less money for tuition or child care couples who wind up with less to retire on households where , when one breadwinner is paid less than she deserves , that is the difference between affording the mortgage or not between keeping the heat on , or paying the doctor s bills or not . And in this economy , when so many folks are already working harder for less and struggling to get by , the last thing they can afford is losing part of each month s paycheck to simple discrimination . So in signing this bill today , I intend to send a clear message That making our economy work means making sure it works for everyone . That there are no second class citizens in our workplaces , and that it is not just unfair and illegal but bad for business to pay someone less because of their gender , age , race , ethnicity , religion or disability . And that justice is not about some abstract legal theory , or footnote in a casebook it is about how our laws affect the daily realities of people s lives their ability to make a living and care for their families and achieve their goals . Ultimately , though , equal pay is not just an economic issue for millions of Americans and their families , it is a question of who we are and whether we are truly living up to our fundamental ideals . Whether we will do our part , as generations before us , to ensure those words put to paper more than 200 years ago really mean something to breathe new life into them with the more enlightened understandings of our time . That is what Lilly Ledbetter challenged us to do . And today , I sign this bill not just in her honor , but in honor of those who came before her . Women like my grandmother who worked in a bank all her life , and even after she hit that glass ceiling , kept getting up and giving her best every day , without complaint , because she wanted something better for me and my sister . And I sign this bill for my daughters , and all those who will come after us , because I want them to grow up in a nation that values their contributions , where there are no limits to their dreams and they have opportunities their mothers and grandmothers never could have imagined . In the end , that is why Lilly stayed the course . She knew it was too late for her that this bill would not undo the years of injustice she faced or restore the earnings she was denied . But this grandmother from Alabama kept on fighting , because she was thinking about the next generation . It is what we have always done in America set our sights high for ourselves , but even higher for our children and grandchildren . Now it is up to us to continue this work . This bill is an important step a simple fix to ensure fundamental fairness to American workers and I want to thank this remarkable and bi partisan group of legislators who worked so hard to get it passed . And this is only the beginning . I know that if we stay focused , as Lilly did and keep standing for what is right , as Lilly did we will close that pay gap and ensure that our daughters have the same rights , the same chances , and the same freedom to pursue their dreams as our sons . Thank you .<speech_sep>